"MR. BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAM HOUSE" 
Written by 
Melvin Frank and Norman Panama 
Based on a novel by 
Eric Hodgins 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
THE ISLAND OF MANHATTAN - STOCK 
FADE IN: 
A very high airplane view of the entire island. Over this, a Voice, authoritative, impressive. 
VOICE In any discussion of contemporary America and how its people live, we must inevitably start with -- Manhattan -- New York City, U.S.A! 
NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE - STOCK 
VOICE Manhattan -- glistening, modern giant of concrete and steel reaching to the heavens and holding in its arms seven millions! 
NEW YORK CITY - ANOTHER VIEW - STOCK 
VOICE Seven millions -- happy beneficiaries of the advantages and comforts this gracious metropolis has to offer... 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) Its fine broad streets and boulevards facilitate the New Yorker's carefree, orderly existence. 
BROADWAY AND FORTY-SECOND STREET - STOCK 
An enormous traffic jam, horns honking, etc. 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) Kindly, courteous public servants ever on hand to offer a word of friendly advice. 
TRAFFIC COP AND CAB DRIVER 
yelling at each other. 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) A transportation system second to none in speed and comfort! 
A SUBWAY DURING RUSH HOUR - STOCK 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) Modern recreational facilities for its children! 
A CROWDED LOWER EAST SIDE STREET - STOCK 
Kids playing ball in truck-laden street. 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) For its adults, the peace and privacy of a day in the sun! 
CONEY ISLAND ON ITS MOST CROWDED DAY - STOCK 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) It's delightful changes in climate! 
A BLINDING, WINDSWEPT NEW YORK BLIZZARD - STOCK 
DISSOLVE 
VOICE (OVER DISSOLVE) Its great institutions of learning! Open to all. Free of charge. 
BUILDING EXCAVATION - DAY 
Leaning on a railing looking down into the excavation are a group of sidewalk supervisors. The CAMERA MOVES UP to a HEAD CLOSEUP of one of them. It is Bill Cole (Melvyn Douglas), a well-dressed, intelligent, attractive looking young man. 
BILL I suppose you're wondering what all this has to do with Mr. Blandings and his Dream House? Well, I'll tell you. Jim Blandings is part of the fabric of this town. Born and raised right here, he's as typical a New Yorker as anyone you'll ever meet. At least he was. (confidentially) And if you want to know the real story, I guess I'm your boy. Cole's my name, Bill Cole. I'm Jim's lawyer and quote, best friend, unquote. Jim's one of those bright young men from Yale. Advertising business, lovely wife, two fine kids, makes almost fifteen thousand a year. Want to know why? Just look up there. 
A BILLBOARD 
A billboard -- against a white background is a large ham. In large letters across the ham is printed: 
WHAM! (A WHALE OF A HAM) 
And below this in quotes: 
MURIEL Why don't you look in your sock drawer? 
JIM (with restraint) That's where I found my underwear. 
MURIEL Oh. (brightly) Well, try your underwear drawer. 
JIM I'm in my underwear drawer. 
He reaches in and holds up one of Muriel's silk slips. 
MURIEL (sipping coffee) Well, they must be somewhere. (attempt at morning cheeriness) Socks just don't get up and walk away by themselves. 
JIM (strained patience) Muriel, I thought the top two-and-a- half drawers were to be mine! I wish you'd tell Gussie -- 
MURIEL The closet! That's where they are. We put them in the closet. 
JIM Socks? In the closet? 
MURIEL Well, there didn't seem to be any room in the drawers... 
JIM And there's so much of it in the closet! 
MURIEL ...so Gussie and I decided that from now on we'll keep them in a basket on the shelf. 
JIM Well, thanks a lot! 
He strides angrily to the closet, opens the door, reaches up for the basket and pulls it off the shelf. As he does so, all the hat boxes come tumbling down knocking the basket from his hand, the socks spilling on the floor. About to explode, he looks at Muriel. 
MURIEL Jim, I do wish you'd make an effort to be a little less clumsy. 
JIM (barely containing himself) I'll try, dear. 
Jim looks at her barely containing himself, and then puts the hats back in the boxes, jams them back on the shelf where they toter precariously. With bated breath he gingerly closes the closet door. Pause. Silence. He picks up a pair of socks and walks cautiously toward the hall door. Suddenly there is a rumble and crash from inside the closet. Jim exchanges a look with Muriel, is about to say something, changes his mind, exits into the hall. Muriel looks at the closet, sighs, takes another sip of coffee. 
INT. THE HALL 
Jim opens the door of the bathroom. There is a scream. He quickly closes the door, scowling with annoyance. A moment later the door opens and Joan emerges, wrapping her robe around her. 
JOAN (sharply) Father, just one morning I wish you'd knock! 
JIM (to her back as she walks away) 'Morning, dear. 
Joan disappears into her room as Jim enters the bathroom. 
INT. THE BATHROOM 
Very small with a stall shower. Jim takes off his bathrobe, yawns, gets on the scale, looks at the dial, shakes his head. He takes a deep breath, draws in his stomach, looks down, scowls, shrugs, gets off, moves to the mirror. He examines the thinness of his hair, the condition of his tongue, etc. Taking his toothbrush he looks down at the tube he is about to use, frowns. 
WHAT HE SEES - THE TOOTHPASTE TUBE 
WHAT HE SEES - the toothpaste tube. It has been squeezed in the middle, one of Blandings' pet peeves. 
CLOSE SHOT - JIM METICULOUSLY SMOOTHES OUT THE TUBE 
CLOSE SHOT - Jim meticulously smoothes out the tube, rolls up the used portion from the bottom. Then placing a small amount on his brush, he caps the tube, and starts vigorously to brush his teeth. As he does so, he attempts with his free hand, to put the tube back in the medicine cabinet which he opens. 
CLOSE SHOT - THE MEDICINE CABINET 
CLOSE SHOT - the medicine cabinet, loaded to the hilt with medical accumulation of fourteen years of family life. 
CLOSE SHOT - JIM 
CLOSE SHOT - Jim. As he pushes the tube into the bulging top shelf, a bottle of iodine falls out. Jim makes a desperate one-handed catch, still brushing his teeth. As he pushes the iodine into the second shelf, a small bottle of pills pops out. Jim catches it, pushes it back into the cabinet. A bottle of cough medicine falls out. He catches it, tries to put it back, finds it won't fit. He looks at the bottle, sniffs it, contemplates its value, throws it in the wastebasket. He finishes washing his mouth, admires his teeth, disrobes and steps into the shower, putting on his shower cap. He reacts, scowls, takes off the cap and turns it upside down, a full cup of water falling out. He reaches out for a towel, dries the inside of the cap, carefully puts it back on his now wet hair. Then he turns the water on and at the first warm spray Jim Blandings' life takes a sharp turn for the better. He starts to sing, a robust bathroom baritone version of "Home On The Range." 
DISSOLVE 
JIM 
Jim - He stands in front of the washstand lathering his face. Over scene we hear Muriel's voice from the shower. She is singing a lusty chorus of "Home On The Range." Jim picks up his razor and turns to the mirror. He reacts with annoyance, as he discovers it is covered with steam. With weary resignation he takes a towel and starts to rub off the mirror. As he clears one section another clouds up. By the time he gets it all reasonably clear he finds that his lather needs freshening. He grimly relathers his face only to find that the mirror is again clouded up. As he turns with exasperation toward the shower we see Muriel turn off the water, reach for a towel, start to dry herself. 
The mirror cleared off, Jim relathers, starts to shave. During this, Muriel, having dried herself and donned her robe, comes into scene. 
MURIEL (reaching for toothbrush) Excuse... 
She takes her toothbrush and then opens the cabinet to get the paste. Jim, automatically following the mirror, has to squeeze around in a desperately contorted position as he continues shaving. 
CLOSE SHOT - MURIEL 
CLOSE SHOT - Muriel. She takes the tube from the cabinet and, squeezing the tube in the middle, applies the paste to her brush. 
JIM AND MURIEL 
Jim and Muriel - Placing the tube on the washstand, Muriel closes the cabinet. Jim, still shaving, moves back to his original position as he follows the mirror. 
JIM Excuse... 
Muriel nods, steps back, starts to brush her teeth. They both hum "Home On The Range". Her mouth full, Muriel taps Jim on the shoulder. Without stopping his shaving, Jim moves to one side as Muriel rinses her mouth. She examines her face in the mirror. 
JIM Just an overall figure. 
FUNKHAUSER Well!... I shouldn't like to be tied down. But I suppose if you must have a figure, I'd say -- mm -- (lightly) -- somewhere in the neighborhood of seven. 
JIM Mm... Seven. 
FUNKHAUSER (nodding) Mm. 
JIM That would be seven... thousand? 
FUNKHAUSER Mm. 
Jim looks at Muriel, considers. 
JIM (soberly) We-ll. That seems fair. (gathering up materials) After all, we're not running away from color -- (picks up wallpaper) -- and we are tearing out walls -- (picks up sketches) Mr. Funkhauser, do you have a card? 
MURIEL Jim, we haven't even discussed the rest of the house. 
JIM We will, dear. (leads the whole batch on Funkhauser) 
FUNKHAUSER (huffy) Well, really, I -- 
JIM (deftly steering him toward the door) We'll talk it all out and then we'll get in touch with Bunny. 
CAMERA TRUCKS with them to the door. 
FUNKHAUSER Well, really, I mean, I was under the impression we'd come to some decision today. 
JIM I'm sure we will. 
FUNKHAUSER We-ll! 
JIM So nice of you to come. (puts Funkhauser's hat on his head) Good day. 
And Funkhauser is gone. Jim closes the door, turns ominously. 
MURIEL (apprehensively) Now darling, you -- you just don't go to a man like Funkhauser and ask how much it's going to cost before you even know what he's going to do! 
JIM No, that would be too logical! Seven thousand dollars! Blueberry pie! I wouldn't put seventy-five cents into this broken-down rat trap! 
MURIEL (sentimentally) It's our home, Jim. Betsy was practically born in this apartment. 
JIM That does not make it a national shrine! (vehemently) Seven thousand dollars and not one word about closets. 
MURIEL Closets! You wouldn't even let him get to the bathroom! 
JIM I haven't got that kind of money! 
MURIEL The way you talk, Jim Blandings, you'd think I was some kind of congenital idiot! 
JIM Sometimes I'm beginning to wonder! 
MURIEL (furious) You can just get out of here! 
JIM That's not a bad idea! 
He angrily jerks open the hall closet door, pulls his hat down from the shelf, several hat boxes, some ski boots and a tennis racket tumbling down on his head. Jim jams his hat onto his head, takes a deep breath and storms out, slamming the door. Muriel walks over to the closet, is about to bend down and pick up a hatbox when all of her pent-up emotions explode. She kicks the hat box into the closet, slams the door, starts to cry. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. RADIO CITY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - (STOCK) 
DISSOLVE 
INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE OF JIM'S OFFICE - DAY 
Exiting from the elevator, Jim enters a door marked: 
DASCOMB AND BANTON ADVERTISING 
DISSOLVE 
INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY 
On the wall are various framed copies of Jim's handiwork. Most prominent are advertisements for a meat product called "Wham!" "A Whale of a Ham!" There is ample evidence of the fact that Jim's most successful slogan is: "When you've got the Whim - say 'Wham!'" 
Jim enters, goes to his desk, sits down, still emotionally upset. He glances at a photograph of Muriel, looks guiltily away, then back. 
JIM (to photograph) Sorry. 
His secretary enters. 
MARY Good morning, Mr. Blandings. 
JIM (briefly) 'Morning. 
MARY You wanted to see the color copy from this month's House and Stream. 
INT. THE CAR - DAY 
Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - The car pulls to a stop. 
BILL'S VOICE Now we're ready to gaff 'em. 
SMITH (proudly) Well, folks, there she is -- the old Hackett Place. 
The Blandings look off, react with interest and approval. 
WHAT THEY SEE -- BURROWED INTO THE UPWARD SLOPE 
What they see -- Burrowed into the upward slope of the land is the old Hackett farmhouse. If the roof seems to sway a little and the massive stone chimney to tilt a bit and the overall condition of board and beam to be a trifle unsteady, charge it up to age, which will be a hundred and seventy years come next April. However, the overall effect is definitely one of picturesque rustic beauty. In the back are a series of barns and behind them the rolling hills known as Bald Mountain. 
SMITH'S VOICE Fifty mighty pretty little acres... 
JIM, MURIEL AND SMITH. 
JIM, MURIEL AND SMITH 
MURIEL (involuntarily) It's simply charming! 
Jim's look cautions against her over-enthusiasm. 
MURIEL That is, for an old house. 
JIM (casually) Of course, you understand, Mr. Smith, we're just window shopping, so to speak. Nothing really definite in mind. 
SMITH Perfectly all right. 
JIM (studies house; with assumed indifference) Mm. Not a bad-looking place, but it's certainly a lot older than anything we had in mind. 
SMITH She's no spring chicken -- (sagely) -- but that's just what makes her such a buy. 
They look at him curiously. Smith's attitude is matter-of- fact, almost without enthusiasm. 
SMITH This isn't just old timber, or a virgin stand oak grove other side of the trout stream, or a couple of fruit orchards... You're buying a piece of American history. 
JIM (interested in spite of himself) You don't say! How's that? 
SMITH First year she was built, General Gates stopped right here to water his horses. 
JIM (impressed) Oh! Old General Gates -- Civil War. 
SMITH Revolutionary War. 
JIM Oh. Oh, that General Gates. Hear that, honey, General Gates! 
MURIEL (with concern) Wouldn't that make the house over a hundred years old? 
SMITH (proudly) Hundred and seventy come next April. 
The Blandings exchange a doubtful look which Smith catches. 
SMITH Now I'm not trying to sell you anything -- all I'm saying is that one of these days someone with a little vision and imagination's goin' to come along, and just steal this place -- (confidentially) and I mean steal it. 
The Blandings, as one, turn to the house with renewed interest. This is not lost on Smith. 
SMITH Mr. Blandings, I know you can look at that house and just about picture what a couple of coats of paint and a little pointing up here and there can do to it. 
JIM Mm. 
The CAMERA MOVES TO a HEAD CLOSEUP of Jim as he begins to visualize 
WHAT HE SEES 
WHAT HE SEES - The Old Hackett Place suddenly DISSOLVES into the New Blandings' Place -- Jim's version. It is a lovely country house. Massive. Masculine. Jim, in jodhpurs, tweed coat, pipe and accompanied by two large Irish Setters, is proudly surveying his property. He nonchalantly holds a sleek, beautiful shotgun in the most precisely correct position. 
CLOSE SHOT - JIM'S FACE. 
CLOSE SHOT - Jim's face. His lips don't move but we hear his voice. 
JIM'S VOICE Hm. Wonder what he meant by "steal?" 
THREE SHOT. 
THREE SHOT. 
SMITH And I guess I don't have to tell you, Mrs. Blandings, what a woman's touch could do to a place like this. 
MURIEL Well -- 
CAMERA MOVES to a HEAD CLOSEUP of Muriel as she starts to visualize. 
WHAT SHE SEES - THE OLD HACKETT PLACE 
WHAT SHE SEES - The Old Hackett Place DISSOLVES into a dainty, feminine cottage with criss-cross curtains at the window and a lovely little white rail fence enclosing "her garden." Muriel, in delightful gingham, is in the garden, admiring her latest triumph - the largest rose ever grown in Lansdale County. 
Hackett exchanges the briefest of looks with Smith who almost imperceptibly shakes his head "no." 
HACKETT (firmly) Ain't for sale! 
As the Blandings react with dismay: 
SMITH (smoothly) Why don't you folks just go out in back and take a look at the orchard? 
He gives them a wink which says, "Just leave it to me." The Blandings exchange a look, turn and walk off. 
HACKETT How'm I doin', George? 
SMITH Nice timin', Eph. Think we got something here. 
HACKETT They the same people you showed it to in nineteen-thirty-eight? 
SMITH They were lookers -- this is the real thing. 
HACKETT If they got five thousand dollars on 'em. don't let 'em get away. 
SMITH They already offered ten. 
HACKETT (mildly) Y'don't say... What's my asking price? 
SMITH Fifteen... 
HACKETT A mite stiff... 
SMITH I've got 'em measured. (mellower) They're gonna take the place for -- (turns, looks back at house) eleven thousand. 
HACKETT Make it eleven thousand five hundred fifty. 
SMITH Odd kind of figure. 
HACKETT Might as well take the commission out of them instead of me. 
As Smith raises a knowing eyebrow: 
DISSOLVE 
INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY 
Muriel and the two children are having breakfast. Jim enters in high spirits. During this scene we repeat the business of passing, etc. used in the previous breakfast scene. 
JIM (singing gaily to "Home On The Range") "Home, home in Connecticut With a closet to hang up your petticut..." 
MURIEL (as he seats himself) ...Jim? 
JIM (going on, as he places his napkin in his lap) "No hustle or fuss No Fifth Avenue bus --" 
MURIEL Uh -- Jim? 
JIM Hm? 
MURIEL I was just wondering, dear. Ten thousand dollars is such an awful lot to offer -- 
Jim looks suspiciously at her, at the children, then back at her. 
MURIEL That is, for two people who don't know anything at all about real estate, or anything... (Jim's look darkens) I mean, don't you think perhaps we should have asked someone's professional advice? 
JIM Like... say... a lawyer? 
MURIEL Well, Bill knows about these things and -- 
JIM Muriel, for once in my life I'm going to make one small decision, on my own, without the legalistic machinations of Mr. Bill Cole. 
MURIEL It seems very peculiar that when your very best friend happens to be one of the very cleverest young lawyers in New York City -- 
JIM Muriel, I don't want to hear another word about Bill Cole! (turns to children) Well, did your mother tell you about the house? 
BETSY Yes. 
JIM Well? 
JOAN Miss Stellwagon says the current craze for modernizing old farmhouses is a form of totem worship. 
JIM (with great restraint) Did it ever occur to you two that there may be some remote, intangible subjects upon which your Miss Irma Stellwagon is not the final authority? 
JOAN Why don't we buy a Solaxion house? 
JIM ...You know it's just barely conceivable -- What kind of a house? 
JOAN Solaxion. It's built on a mast like a tent and it revolves with the sun. 
JIM Oh, it... revolves... with the sun? 
JOAN That's right. 
JIM (with pride) Well, it wasn't much, Bill. I just saw a good thing and I -- (take) What do you mean? 
BILL Every time you get a little tight you weep on my shoulder about the advertising business and how it forces a sensitive soul like yourself to make a living by bamboozling the American public. (picks up Smith's correspondence) I would say that a small part of this victimized group has now redressed the balance. 
JIM What are you talking about? 
BILL You! You've been taken to the cleaners and you don't even know your pants are off! 
MURIEL Dear, I told you. I said we should call Bill -- 
JIM Never mind, Muriel! (to Bill; challengingly) All right, just what's wrong with this deal? 
BILL First time around you offered ten thousand dollars for fifty acres, right? 
JIM What of it? 
BILL That's two hundred dollars an acre. I know that part of Connecticut and one hundred dollars an acre is standard top-gouge price to city slickers. When the natives sell to each other it's around forty or less. 
MURIEL Forty dollars an acre! 
JIM The man's entitled to a fair profit. 
BILL Not two hundred and eighty-four percent. (indicates papers) And besides, you're not getting fifty acres, you're only getting thirty- five, more or less. 
JIM Where does it say that? 
BILL (picks up letter) I refer to a rather obscure post- script on the back of the second letter from Friend Smith. 
He hands the letter to Muriel. 
MURIEL (reading) "Incidentally, Mr. Hackett has been a little over-optimistic about the acreage. It will probably survey somewhere in the neighborhood of thirty-five acres, more or less, but I feel sure..." 
JIM (on the defensive) All right, so it's thirty-five! What's the difference? Do you know how many tennis courts you can get on thirty- five acres? 
BILL You're not spending eleven thousand five hundred dollars for tennis courts! 
JIM That's not the point! 
BILL (very businesslike) That's precisely the point. We're going to write this Hackett a strong letter and tell him he can either kick in with those fifteen acres, reduce the price, or find another sucker. 
JIM (rising emotion) We'll do no such thing! I'm not going to queer this deal over fifteen broken- down acres! 
MURIEL (to Bill) We were just going window shopping and so far it's cost us eleven thousand five hundred dollars and they even made us pay the commission! 
JIM You don't understand business. 
BILL You mean extortion. 
As Jim turns on Bill and is about to answer him explosively: 
MURIEL (thoughtfully) I wonder if we could get another two year lease on the apartment? 
JIM (heatedly) Now wait a minute! You can't measure everything on a slide rule. This house has certain intangibles. 
BILL Like what, for instance? 
JIM Like antique value, for instance! It just so happens that General Gates stopped right there, at that very house, to water his horses. 
BILL I don't care if General Grant dropped in for a scotch and soda -- you're still getting rocked! 
JIM That was a different war! 
MURIEL I think Bill's absolutely right. 
JIM (struggling to contain himself; quietly) Let me explain something. To both of you. For fifteen years I've been cooped up in a four room cracker box! Just getting shaved in the morning entitles a man to the Congressional Medal for bravery. 
BILL That doesn't make this a good buy. 
JIM Bill -- Muriel and I have found what I am not ashamed to call our Dream House. It's like a fine painting. You buy it with your heart, not your head. You don't ask, how much was the canvas, how much was the paint? You look at it and you say, "It's beautiful... I want it," and if it costs a few pennies more you pay it -- and gladly -- because you love it and you can't measure the things you love in dollars and cents! 
Muriel looks at Jim, impressed, her face softening with compassion. 
JIM (emotionally spent) Well -- that's how I feel about this place. And when I sign those papers Saturday, I can look the world in the face and say, "It's mine! My house! My home! My thirty-five acres!" 
MURIEL (coming over; moved, touched) Our house. Our home. Our thirty-five acres... 
They tenderly kiss. 
BILL ...more or less... 
On Jim's reaction: 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. LANSDALE COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY 
Comprehensive Shot showing village green of a small, typical, quaint New England town. 
INT. THE CAR - DAY 
Jim and Muriel look at each other with disgust and resignation. 
JIM What in the world are "Shrunk Mills?" 
BILL They are probably mills that have shrunk. 
MURIEL Well, you certainly aren't much of a help. 
BILL (wearily) Look -- you really want to find that house of yours -- it's no problem. 
They look at him curiously. 
BILL Just pretend you're one of General Gates' horses and you're thirsty... Now where would you go for a drink of water? 
Jim looks at him darkly, drives through the bridge, turns right, as Muriel looks slightly triumphant. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY 
Jim, Muriel and Bill stand a little distance from the house, looking at it. A vast lilac spreads across it. The Blandings are in quiet rapture, and it is Bill who speaks first. 
BILL (frank and open) Well, I must admit it's a very beautiful thing. 
MURIEL (misty) The house and the lilac are just the same age, Bill; if the lilac can live and be so old, so can the house. It just needs someone to love it, that's all. 
Three shingles slide from the roof. As Jim and Muriel react: 
BILL It's a good thing there are two of you -- one to love it and one to hold it up. 
As Jim gives him a look: 
BILL What'd your engineer say when he checked over the foundation and that roof? 
JIM Who needs engineers? This isn't a train, you know. 
BILL I just saw it move. 
JIM This house has been standing since the second year of the Continental Congress. You take one look at it and shingles start to fall off! 
As if on cue, a few more shingles slide off the roof, nearly hitting Jim. 
BILL (solicitously) Look -- let me do you a favor. I've got a client, crackerjack structural engineer, Joe Apollonio; he practically built the George Washington Bridge single-handed. 
JIM Thanks a lot, but we're not building a bridge. 
BILL He's the follow who advised the Government not to raise the Normandie -- they didn't listen to him, cost them five million dollars. 
JIM You have my word, if I were raising the Normandie, I wouldn't make a move without Apollonio. (indicates door) Now would you like to come inside and look around? 
BILL (a skeptical look at the roof) No thanks, I'll just stay out in the car and listen to "Life Can Be Beautiful." 
As Jim opens the door and disappears, there is a crash, followed by a series of other crashes. Muriel looks in, turns back to Bill. 
MURIEL I think you'd better contact Mr. Apollonio. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY 
Near the front entrance. After a moment, the door opens, and the Blandings and Mr. Apollonio emerge. Jim, limping, is aided and abetted by a cane. Apollonio is a stolid, New York construction man, replete with derby, blue serge suit, and cigar. A short rule sticks out of a back pocket. As they emerge, the Blandings are hopefully enthusiastic; Apollonio is thoughtfully noncommittal. 
MURIEL It has charm, hasn't it, Mr. Apollonio? 
APOLLONIO (through his cigar) Uh-huh. 
JIM Of course, any small changes would have to conform with the character of the countryside. 
APOLLONIO (through his cigar) Mm-hmm. 
MURIEL And yet still be functional. 
Apollonio casually walks over to the corner of the house, kicks an exposed beam. It crumbles, apparently rotted by termites. Two shingles fall off. The Blandings watch him anxiously. 
APOLLONIO (gazing upward; oblivious) Uh-huh. 
As he thoughtfully rubs his chin, Jim, followed by Muriel, limps his way over to him. 
JIM Well, uh, what's your professional opinion? 
Apollonio looks at the Blandings, at the house, then back at the Blandings. He takes the cigar from his mouth. 
APOLLONIO Tear it down. 
JIM (appalled) Tear it down??! 
JIM Mm. New house... (as the notion sinks in, becomes attractive) New house. 
MURIEL (to Simms, with pleasant incredulity) You mean... for the same money... we could build a brand new house? 
SIMMS It certainly wouldn't cost any more. 
JIM (soberly) Hm... New house... 
He turns and looks thoughtfully at Muriel who raises an interested eyebrow. Then, to Simms: 
JIM (tentatively) Just... what sort of thing do you have in mind? 
SIMMS Well, I imagine the type of house you'd want would be something in quiet good taste, two story, frame and brick veneer construction -- modern, but of course fitting in with the architectural traditions of the countryside. 
JIM Well, I -- What do you think, Muriel? 
MURIEL I think it sounds fine. 
SIMMS Perhaps you'd like to see a basic floor plan -- (reaches into file behind him) -- something like this. 
Simms places the basic floor plan on the desk before him, the Blandings moving around, flanking him. They examine the plan with interest. 
WHAT THEY SEE -- THE PLAN. 
What they see -- the plan. A simple master plan of a two story house, the names of the various rooms indicated. As he talks, we see Simms' hand, holding a pencil, point out the various rooms 
SIMMS First floor. Living room, study, dining room, kitchen, service porch, maid's room -- upstairs three family bedrooms with two adjoining baths. 
THREE SHOT. THE BLANDINGS PRAISE THE PLAN 
THREE SHOT. The Blandings praise the plan with the uncompromising expertness of two people who have never seen such a plan before in their lives. 
MURIEL It's very nice, I'm sure, but -- uh -- well -- doesn't it seem just a little bit conventional? 
JIM Yes, Simms, if we were going to build a house we want it -- well, you know -- just a little bit different. 
SIMMS (he's heard all this before) Yes, of course. 
JIM Now, for instance -- (takes Simms' pencil) 
THE DRAWING BOARD. 
THE DRAWING BOARD. Jim's pencil traces as he talks. 
JIM'S VOICE -- here in the study if we could just push out this wall a little -- and put in a built-in bar we could -- 
MURIEL'S VOICE Excuse me, dear -- 
Her hand takes the pencil from his, starts to trace as she talks. Jim's fingers drum with the beginnings of impatience. 
MURIEL'S VOICE These bedrooms. They do seem rather small. And, of course we'd have to have a little dressing room -- and -- 
As she draws it in, Jim's hand takes the pencil. Muriel's fingers drum nervously. 
JIM'S VOICE And closets, Simms, lots of closets. (traces them in) If there's one thing this family needs, it's closets. 
SIMMS' VOICE (as his hand reaches for the pencil) If I might make a suggestion -- 
But Muriel's hand reaches the pencil first. 
MURIEL'S VOICE (as she draws them in) And bathrooms, Mr. Simms. Each bedroom must have at least one bathroom. 
SIMMS' VOICE But that would be four bathrooms, Mrs. Blandings -- (his hand reaches for the pencil) I think I'd better point out to you -- 
Jim's hand reaches the pencil before Simms. Now Simms' fingers and Muriel's drum in unison. 
JIM'S VOICE Just a minute. Do you think -- (tracing) we might manage a little playroom in the basement, nothing tremendous, you know, something like this -- 
SIMMS' VOICE (as his hand reaches for the pencil; cautiously) Well, it's always possible, but at the moment our fundamental problem -- 
But Muriel's hand has the pencil. 
MURIEL'S VOICE (as she traces) And I've always wanted a little sewing room upstairs -- (Jim's and Simms' fingers drum impatiently) You know, a little utility room where I can be alone, and sew, or sulk, or on a rainy afternoon... 
JIM'S VOICE (as his hand takes pencil) Pardon me, dear. On that playroom, Simms, not too small. You know, plenty of room for ping-pong, darts, nice big poker table... 
SIMMS' VOICE (as his hand reaches for another pencil) If you don't mind, I -- 
But Muriel has reached the pencil first. As she and Jim sketch simultaneously and the scene begins to DISSOLVE, we hear: 
MURIEL'S VOICE ...And off the kitchen, I'd like a little flower sink just to putter around in... 
JIM'S VOICE ...And a terrace off the study, with an owning and little outdoor fireplace... 
DISSOLVE 
THE DRAWING BOARD - THE ORIGINAL PLANS 
MINIATURE SHOT - What is left of the house collapses. 
EXT. HILL OVERLOOKING THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - PROCESS OF MATTE OR MINIATURE SHOT 
Jim and Muriel are standing there, having watched the demolition. As the dust settles: 
JIM (sigh) Well, so far it's cost us thirteen thousand, three hundred and twenty- nine dollars and forty-five cents. 
MURIEL But we've got the nicest vacant lot in the state of Connecticut. 
They exchange a look of mixed emotions. 
DISSOLVE 
SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS 
INSERT SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS - Fresh and workmanlike, a few small sections crossed out where cuts have been indicated. 
SIMMS' VOICE (wearily) Something will have to give somewhere, that I know. 
The CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to disclose: 
INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Jim, Muriel and Simms are going over the preliminary plans. Betsy and Joan are present, Betsy reading the Lansdale Blade and Joan reading a science book. 
MURIEL It's impossible. I don't see how we can cut another inch. 
JIM Honey, you heard Simms. As the house stands now it's over fifteen thousand dollars! 
MURIEL Well, it just doesn't seem possible -- (afterthought) for a house with such small rooms. 
SIMMS (patiently) Mrs. Blandings, I've already explained. It's not only the size of the rooms so much as it is the number. You see, our primary problem is one of cubage -- 
JIM That's right, dear, cubage. 
MURIEL What's that? 
JIM Oh -- (sorry he got into it) just a figure of speech. 
MURIEL But what does it mean? 
JIM (a little irritably) Cubage. It's just the number of cubic feet that -- (lost, lamely) -- go into a cubic foot. Go on, Simms. 
SIMMS (consulting plans) Now is it absolutely essential for each of your daughters to have her own room with two closets and a separate bath? 
JIM (a look at the girls; clearing his throat) Yes. You see, er, my daughters are, er, approaching womanhood, and, er -- 
SIMMS (brief look at the girls) I hadn't realized they were approaching it quite so fast. (to Jim) Perhaps what you need is not so much a house as a series of little bungalows. 
JIM Hmmm. (examining plans) What about that silly flower sink? We could eliminate that. 
MURIEL I beg your pardon. 
JIM Or that sewing room upstairs, that's certainly a waste. 
MURIEL If we're going to eliminate anything, we'll lose that ridiculous play room in the basement with that great big poker table. 
JIM Honey, I've got to have some relaxation. 
MURIEL We've got thirty-one and a half acres. Go out in the back and do a little gardening. 
JIM Sure, and get poison ivy! 
SIMMS (with dogged patience) If I may interrupt, I'd like to suggest that none of these are really major eliminations. Now if we could do with one less bathroom on the second floor -- 
MURIEL I'm sorry. We couldn't possibly. 
SIMMS Mrs. Blandings, a simple bathroom, eight by ten by eight with grade A fixtures will cost around thirteen hundred dollars. 
MURIEL I refuse to endanger the health of my children in a house with less than four bathrooms. 
JIM For thirteen hundred dollars they can live in a house with three bathrooms and rough it! 
SIMMS Look, perhaps the most practical thing would be -- 
BETSY Oh, look, we're in the Lansdale paper! (reading) "Historical Society Blasts Vandalism!" 
JIM Muriel, Simms explained to you. We've just got to cut, cut -- (reacts) What's that? 
BETSY (reading) "Censure Vote Passed re Destruction of Famed Hackett Edifice." 
JIM Well, isn't that just too bad! Let me see that. 
He takes the paper, scans it, suddenly bursts into laughter. 
MURIEL What's so funny. 
JIM (same) I said, humming. 
BILL Oh. 
As they get out of the car, there is an unusually loud crash from the well-digger's rig. 
BILL (loud) What's going on over there? 
JIM (same) That's Mr. Tesander. He's digging our well. 
BILL (same) Well? What happened to the trout stream, with that pure, clear, cold mountain water? 
JIM (same) I decided against it -- 
There is a sudden cessation of the steam shovel and complete silence. Jim, unaware of it, continues to shout. 
JIM The trout stream -- (reacts; quietly) didn't seem practical. 
MURIEL It wasn't exactly a decision, dear. (to Bill) We discovered the trout stream dries up in August and the rest of the year it's polluted. 
JIM (defensively; groping) Well, anyway, I'd rather have artesian water. It's healthier. Calcium -- vitamins -- artesian -- 
BILL (indicating) What's wrong with that steam shovel? 
They look off. 
WHAT THEY SEE. A CLUSTER OF WORKMEN 
WHAT THEY SEE. A cluster of workmen have gathered around Mr. Zucca, the driver of the steam shovel, who is swearing in voluble but undistinguishable Italian. 
JIM, MURIEL AND BILL. 
Jim, Muriel and Bill. 
JIM Better take a look. 
He starts off for the steam shovel, nimbly jumping over a drainage trench. Muriel starts to follow, pauses, unable to negotiate the trench. 
MURIEL Jim! 
Jim turns in time to see Bill pick Muriel up and carry her across the trench. As he sets her down: 
MURIEL (sarcastic; to Jim) Thank you, dear. 
Jim frowns, annoyed. They approach the group around the shovel. 
JIM What's the matter, Mr. Zucca? Something wrong? 
ZUCCA How do you lika that? Broka my bucket. Two times this week I broka my bucket? 
JIM What did you do, strike a boulder? 
ZUCCA (darkly) Atsa no boulder, atsa ledge. 
JIM (weakly) What does that mean? 
ZUCCA Meansa we gotta blast! 
JIM Blast? 
ZUCCA Blast. Witha dynamite. 
JIM What do you mean, dynamite? 
MURIEL (a little annoyed) What do you mean, "What do you mean?" Mr. Zucca just explained. He's going to use dynamite and blast until he gets rid of the rock. 
ZUCCA Atsa no rock, atsa ledge. 
BILL What Mr. Blandings means is -- what precisely is a ledge? 
ZUCCA Ledge. Lika bigga stone, only a- bigger. 
JIM Like a boulder? 
ZUCCA No, like ledge. 
Jim looks at Muriel and Bill. 
BILL ...Like a ledge. 
ZUCCA But you don't gotta worry. Only cost twenty-four cents a cubic foot, plussa dynamite an'a fuse. 
JIM But how far will you have to blast? 
ZUCCA Harda tell. Might be a lilla baby ledge -- mighta run the whole toppa the mountain. 
JIM (appalled) At twenty-four cents a foot? Do you realize what that means?! 
TESANDER 'Course it might turn out to be sandstone. 
JIM That's bad? 
Tesander shakes his head, "No." 
JIM That's good? 
Tesander shakes his head, "No." 
TESANDER Can't tell. Might be good. Might be bad. One thing you know -- you got plenty of shale, sandstone and limestone. 
JIM ...I see. 
He turns a little helplessly to Muriel and Bill. 
BILL On a hot day there's nothing like a nice cool limestone shower. 
MURIEL (sweetly) Mr. Tesander, just for the record, of course, what ever happened to water? 
TESANDER Oh, it's there, all right. (he smiles, nods, tips his hat to Muriel) Just got to be patient. 
He turns on his motor, goes back to work. Jim, Muriel and Bill start to move off. 
BILL If you ask me, this project's getting a little out of hand. 
JIM (defensively) Nothing's getting out of hand at all. I've made a chart of the whole operation, and -- (indicates Tesander) with a few minor deviations, I know exactly what every penny's going to cost. 
MURIEL Two pennies. 
JIM (coolly) And just what does that mean? 
BILL (drily) Meansa we gotta blast. 
There is a loud dynamite blast o.s. As a shower of dirt and rocks cascade down and they run for cover: 
DISSOLVE 
JIM'S COST CHART 
INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - Jim stands casually above the house holding the line with one hand. The group pushing from below now consists of Smith, Hackett, Simms, Retch, Tesander, Zucca and assorted sub-contractors and workmen. As the house moves up a thousand dollars, Jim firmly pushes it back. It now rests at $33,500. 
DISSOLVE 
INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY 
Jim and Mary. 
JIM You see, Mary, the average fellow who builds a house doesn't know where he stands from day to day -- but I do things a little differently. With a few minor deviations I know exactly where every penny is going -- 
There is a knock on the door. It opens and Bill Cole appears, briefcase under his arm. 
BILL Hi. 
JIM Bill! Come in, come in. 
BILL (entering) Just going over the Knapp contracts with old man Dascomb and I -- uh -- (indicates Mary) Can I talk? 
JIM (a little concerned) Sure. What's up? 
BILL (obliquely) While I was in there with Dascomb the conversation kind of got around to you and -- uh -- 
JIM (impatiently) What is it? 
BILL Well, he didn't say in so many words that ever since you started with that house you haven't turned in a decent piece of copy, but -- 
JIM But you kind of got the feeling... 
BILL ...that if I told you, you'd know that he knew that you knew that he knew... that you knew... or something. 
JIM What's he worrying about? The deadline's three months off. I've always -- 
The phone rings. Mary answers. 
MARY Hello? Yes. Just a minute. (hands phone to Jim) Mrs. Blandings calling from Lensdale. 
JIM Yes, Muriel. What? What's that? Tesander struck water! Say that's wonderful! (to Bill) We've finally got our well. 
BILL (drily) Congratulations. 
He extends his hand. Jim absently shakes it, then: 
JIM (listens at phone) Huh? What's that? (face falls) What do you mean we've got two wells? (listens; then, grimly) I'll be right out. (hangs up, rises) Come on, Bill, we'd better get out to Lansdale. 
MARY Anything wrong? 
JIM (soberly, as he slips into his coat) Mary, have you ever seriously considered building a house? 
BILL Maybe it's that little room off the hallway. 
JIM That's the breakfast nook. 
MURIEL It's not the breakfast nook, it's the powder room. 
JIM Oh. 
BILL Do me a favor -- don't ever invite me here for a meal. 
Two workmen pass by carrying a few long pieces of lumber. The workmen don't see the Blandings. 
FIRST WORKMAN I don't figure this Blandings at all. If you gotta build on the windiest hill in Connecticut, why do you have to pick the windiest side of the hill? 
BILL (to workman) You know these New York millionaires -- they're eccentric. 
The workmen pass from view. 
JIM I think I'd like to go outside. 
BILL (gesture to door) After you, Rockefeller. 
As they enter the foyer, a carpenter appears. 
CARPENTER (to Jim) Just the man I want to see. Would you step over here a second? 
JIM Sure. 
BILL (indicating) I'll browse around upstairs. 
As Bill starts up the stairs, Jim and Muriel follow the carpenter. 
CARPENTER (pointing up) On them second floor lintels between the lally columns, do you want we should rabbet them or not? 
JIM (lost) The -- second -- floor -- lallys? 
CARPENTER The second floor lintels, between the lallys. 
JIM Oh. Oh, the lintels between the lallys? 
CARPENTER Yeah. From the blueprints you can't tell. You want they should be rabbeted? 
Jim throws a brief look at Muriel who is regarding him skeptically. 
JIM Un -- umm. No, I guess not. 
CARPENTER Okay, you're the doctor. (calls) Hey, fellas, you got any of them rabbeted lintels set, rip 'em out! 
After the sheerest pause there comes a shriek of nails brutally withdrawn from timber, a loud splintering of wood and then something of the appearance of entrails comes hurtling down end over end landing with a dusty slap at Jim's feet. The carpenter exits. Muriel gives Jim an accusing look. 
JIM (sheepishly) It sounded less... expensive to say no. 
There is another loud screech and more "entrails" come hurtling down, narrowly missing them. Muriel yells in the direction from which they came. 
MURIEL Stop it! Stop it! 
From upstairs comes a long, shrill whistle. Instantly all sound of activity ceases and a voice is heard. 
VOICE Okay, fellas, let's quit! 
JIM (to Muriel) Now look what you've done. 
As Muriel turns with apprehension, eighteen workmen come trooping down the stairs. 
JIM (conciliatory) Look, men, Mrs. Blandings didn't mean anything. (the workmen regard him curiously) I mean, there's no point in walking off a job just because... a woman makes a silly little remark. 
WORKMAN It's Saturday, mister. We quit at twelve o'clock. This ain't a chain gang, you know. 
As the workmen exit the Blandings look at each other a little sheepishly, start up the stairs. 
CRANE SHOT - AS THE BLANDINGS GO UP THE STAIRS 
CRANE SHOT - as the Blandings go up the stairs. 
MURIEL I'm just sick. From the outside this house looks like a grain elevator, and on the inside everything's miles too small. 
As they reach the second floor landing, we hear, o.s. a steady but muffled pounding. 
They stop as they hear the thumping. 
MURIEL What's that? 
JIM What's what? 
MURIEL That noise -- listen. (again the thumping) It's coming from the closet! 
They rush to the closet, open the heavy oak door. Bill is inside, leaning disgustedly against the wall. 
As Muriel and Bill precede Jim out of the closet and down the stairs, Jim pauses, speculatively toying with the lock. 
JIM (muttering) Funny... always worked before. Huh. I wonder... 
INT. FOYER - STAIRWAY 
Muriel and Bill walking down the stairs. From upstairs comes a steady sullen pounding from the interior of the closet. Without a word, they stop, look at each other, turn and walk back upstairs. 
DISSOLVE 
INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY 
Muriel and the children are having breakfast. Jim enters, in fairly high spirits, once again improvising to "Home On The Range." 
JIM (as he sits down) "Home, home in Connecticut -- Where you have to conform to local traditions, customs, politics and etiquette..." (picks up his morning mail, starts to thumb through it) 
JOAN Dad, do you suppose I could have a chemistry lab in the basement? 
JIM (preoccupied with mail) Sure, why not? 
BETSY I think it's awful. Smelling up the house with those horrible chemicals. 
MURIEL Never mind, Betsy. (to Jim) Dear, I'm going up to the place this afternoon to see about landscaping. Bill's driving me. 
JIM (preoccupied) That's nice. (looking up; darkly) What do you mean, Bill's driving you? 
MURIEL (a little annoyed) Why do you always say, "what do you mean," when you know perfectly well what I mean and what you mean? 
JIM I mean that every time I turn my back Bill Cole's driving you some place or something. 
MURIEL He's only being helpful. 
JIM (annoyed; tears open a letter) I thought he was a lawyer! Why isn't he out suing somebody? 
JOAN Bicker, bicker, bicker. 
MURIEL (to Joan) Another word and you don't get your laboratory. 
BETSY Well, that's something! 
Jim suddenly explodes, crumpling a letter he has just read. 
JIM We'll just see about that! 
MURIEL (concerned) What is it, dear? 
Ignoring her, he reaches for the phone, starts to dial. 
MURIEL Jim, what's the matter? 
JIM (into phone; sharply) Mr. William Cole, please. (pause; then with rising emotion) Hello, Bill? I want you to fight this thing! I know my rights as a citizen! They can't get away with it!... What do you mean, what am I talking about? The letter, of course. From the owner of this building. They want us to move! It's a thirty day notice! (listens a moment) But that's ridiculous. How can I move into a house that isn't even finished?! No windows, no plaster -- or paint, or -- or plumbing! (listens a moment; then with rising emotion) Now you listen to me! I have no intention of moving in thirty days! This is not legal! I'm going to fight this thing! And I don't care if it takes every penny I've got! (listens) Yeah... Yeah... Yeah... All right! (hangs up) 
MURIEL (expectantly) ...Well? 
JIM (quietly) We're moving in thirty days. 
On Muriel's reaction: 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. ROAD AND COVERED BRIDGE - DAY 
Two moving vans are approaching the bridge. Behind them is the Blandings' convertible. In it are Jim, Muriel and the children. Behind it and attached is a trailer. After a pause, over this, we hear: 
BILL'S VOICE So-came thirty days -- and they moved. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO BRIDGE. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT - Entrance to bridge. As the cavalcade passes through we see in the rear of the trailer, jammed among the household effects, Gussie and a very uncomfortable Mr. Bill Cole. 
BILL'S VOICE I mean -- we moved. 
OTHER END OF BRIDGE AND FORK 
The moving vans precede the convertible, make the wrong turn. Jim stops the convertible at the fork and honks as he impatiently gestures to the drivers to turn in the opposite direction. Over this: 
BILL'S VOICE (as Jim would say it) That's the wrong road! Any fool knows that! 
Jim starts his car up leading the way. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. ROAD AT THE HOUSE - DAY 
The moving vans turn up the new gravel driveway. Jim stops his car and they all look off at the house, react with pleasant surprise. 
WHAT THEY SEE - LONG SHOT - THE HOUSE IS RAPIDLY NEARING COMPLETION. 
BETSY Uncle Bill, you're going to miss your train! 
MURIEL Jim, you clean up this mess. I'll drive Bill to the station and pick up some cold cuts for dinner. 
Betsy and Joan pick up some boxes and walk into the dining room. 
BETSY You'd better hurry! 
BILL (indicating upstairs closet) Kind of hate to leave that little place. Just four walls and a couple of mothballs, but to me it'll always be home. 
JIM (preoccupied with timetable) So long, Bill. 
Bill and Muriel exit. 
INT. THE DINING ROOM 
As Jim drifts in, still preoccupied with timetable: 
JOAN It's certainly going to be fun this summer when Uncle Bill comes up for his vacation. 
BETSY We'll get in a lot of doubles. 
JIM Hmm? (looks up from timetable) What are you talking about? Bill's going to Europe. 
BETSY No, he's not. I heard him and mother talking. He's going to move his vacation up and take a place in Lansdale. 
JIM (vaguely annoyed) Uh-huh... Mm-hm. Mm-hm... Uh-huh. (then, covering up) All right, come on, come on. Get busy. 
DISSOLVE 
INT. THE BLANDINGS' CAR - (PROCESS) 
Evening is beginning to fall as Muriel drives Bill into town. 
MURIEL I'll scout around and find you a place in Lansdale. (quickly) Now, you're not going to change your mind about coming up? 
BILL Don't worry, I'll be on the job. 
MURIEL It won't be easy. I promise you a Cook's tour of every lamp maker, rug weaver, and antique shop in Lansdale County. 
BILL (philosophically) When I married you two I suppose I took you for better or for worse. 
Muriel smiles warmly, and in a friendly gesture reaches over and pats his hand. 
MURIEL Good old Uncle Bill. 
BILL (drily) Good old Uncle Bill. 
As they exchange an understanding smile: 
DISSOLVE 
INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
It is dark outside and getting quite chilly. The children are unpacking a last barrel. They have made a rather unsteady pile of books and boxes, obviously Muriel's personal effects. Jim is in the process of trying to start his first fire in the fireplace. The immediate result is a clouding of the room with smoke. As he backs away, coughing, he bumps into the pile which falls to the floor spilling open a box which contains, among other things, Muriel's diary and a lifetime accumulation of sentimental trinkets. 
JIM Now look what you've done! 
Betsy coughs her way to the fireplace, turns the flue handle. The smoke immediately goes up the chimney and the room starts to clear. 
BETSY Father, the first principle of lighting a fire is to see if the flue is open. A three-year-old child knows that. 
JIM Next time we want a fire I'll send out for a three-year-old child! (indicates trinkets) Get that stuff cleaned up and go in and help Gussie set the table. It's getting late. 
The children start gathering up the debris. Joan picks up some trinkets which have spilled from a cardboard box. 
JOAN Look, Dad, your fraternity pins. 
JIM (busy cleaning the fireplace) Pins? I only had one. 
JOAN There are two of them here. 
JIM All right, all right. Just put them away. 
JOAN (examining them) Funny, this one says W.C. on the back. W.C.? (brightly) William Cole! It must be Uncle Bill's! 
JIM Huh? (reaching for it) Let me see that. (examining pin) Hmmmm. 
Betsy has picked up a small leather-bound book. She whistles. 
JOAN What's that? 
BETSY Mother's diary when she was in college. It's slightly torrid. 
JOAN (coming over) Let's see. 
JIM (sharply) That's none of your business! 
MURIEL (beginning to be a little angry) Because I wasn't in love with him! 
JIM (vindictively) That's not what you said in your diary! 
MURIEL (now really angry) Oh, now you've been reading my diary! 
JIM (a little guilty) Well -- it happened to fall open and... I... happened to look at it. It... just happened. 
MURIEL I'll just bet! 
JIM It's all over the book so why don't you admit it? You were in love with Bill Cole! 
MURIEL Don't be absurd! Of course I was in love with Bill. In those days I was in love with a new man every week. 
JIM Then why did you marry me? 
MURIEL I'm beginning to wonder! (exploding) Maybe it was those big cow eyes of yours or that ridiculous hole in your chin! Maybe I knew that some day you'd bring me out to this thirty- eight thousand dollar icebox with a dried-up trout stream and no windows! Or maybe I just happened to fall in love with you -- but for heaven's sake, don't ask me why! 
Muriel stalks out of the bathroom. Jim looks after her, thoughtfully starts to dry his face. 
INT. THE BEDROOM 
Jim enters. Muriel stands with her back to him angrily winding the clock. Jim noisily clears his throat. No reaction. 
JIM (tentatively) ...Muriel? 
No reaction. 
JIM ...Honey? 
No reaction. 
JIM Would it do any good to say I'm sorry? 
MURIEL I don't know. 
Jim gently turns her around facing him. 
JIM Well -- I am. I acted like a schoolboy and I'm sorry. 
Muriel looks at Jim. Finally she smiles. 
MURIEL Oh, Jim! 
She goes into his arms and they kiss intimately. As their lips part: 
MURIEL (dreamily) Why don't you take the soap out of your ears? 
JIM (same) Why do I love you so much? 
Jim again kisses her tenderly, warmly. 
MURIEL (breathless) Darling, it's awfully late. 
Jim kisses her again, a little more ardently. 
MURIEL (same) Maybe you ought to go down and lock the doors. 
JIM (kissing her ear) What for? The windows are all open anyway. 
MURIEL (as he starts to kiss her again) Jim, you have to get up at six o'clock. 
JIM (considers; logic prevails; brief sigh) Yes, I guess so. 
MURIEL (reluctantly) Goodnight, dear. 
JIM (same) Goodnight. 
Each gets into his own bed, still wearing the overcoats. 
DISSOLVE 
INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - The house now wavers at $37,000. As Jim and Muriel still try to stem the tide, the group that is pushing the house ever upward includes all of the previous people connected with the house and -- in addition --plumbers, painters, landscape gardeners, etc. Over this, and across the scene flutter more bills, more extras. 
BILL'S VOICE And so the days sped by -- and the bills -- and the extras -- and as the house approached forty thousand dollars, Jim approached his deadline for the new slogan. It was almost a photo finish. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. RADIO CITY - NIGHT (STOCK) 
It is raining. The lights are on in the buildings. 
INT. JIM'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Mary is attending to some detail work as the door opens and Jim enters, disturbed. Mary looks at him questioningly. 
JIM You'd better send out for coffee and sandwiches,... It looks like an all night session. 
JIM "If you'd buy better ham. You'd better buy Wham!" 
MARY It's Boyle Petroleum. "If you'd buy better oil, You'd better buy Boyle." 
Her eye closes. Jim sinks back with defeat, his hand dropping over the edge of the couch. It encounters a crumpled piece of paper, earlier work. He smoothes the paper, scans it, kind of likes it. He gets up, comes over, snaps fingers. Mary looks up. 
JIM "This little pig went to market As meek and as mild as a lamb. He smiled in his tracks When they slipped him the axe He knew he'd turn out to be Wham!" 
A long silent look passes between them. 
JIM (quietly) "...knew he'd turn out to be Wham!" 
He suddenly and angrily gathers all his papers, slams them into the wastebasket. 
JIM (rising panic) It's gone! I've lost my touch! Maybe I never had a touch! Maybe "Whim Say Wham" was an accident! Who knows? I can't think any more! All I've got on my mind is a house with an eighteen thousand dollar mortgage, and bills, and extras, and antiques, and -- and -- (dejected) I don't know... I don't know. 
Mary looks at him sympathetically, doesn't quite know what to say. As the CAMERA MOVES to a CLOSE SHOT of the emotionally distraught Jim, his eyes go to a large photograph on his desk of Muriel and the children. He picks it up, looks at it with affection. Suddenly he gets an idea. Rising with determination he puts on his coat and starts for the door. 
MARY (startled) Where are you going? 
JIM Home, to get some sleep -- and I'd advise you to do the same. 
MARY But -- but you haven't -- 
JIM Suppose I haven't! This isn't the only job in town! 
MARY But -- but -- what'll I tell Mr. Dascomb? 
JIM (sharply) You just tell him to -- to -- (with finality) You just tell him! 
He exits. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. THE BLANDINGS' HOME - DAY 
It is an especially beautiful, sunshiny morning. A rural- looking taxi deposits a weary Jim, who pays the driver. As the cab drives off, Jim looks speculatively at Simms' car, which is parked there, yawns, stretches, opens the door and enters. Under this a slightly sour underscoring of "Home On The Range." 
INT. BLANDINGS LIVING ROOM - DAY 
As Jim comes into the foyer, he sees Muriel, in nightgown and robe, talking to Mr. Simms. She holds the rolled-up volume of blueprints that went into building the house. 
JIM 'Morning, dear. 
MURIEL (going to him; solicitously) Darling, you must be exhausted. How did it go? 
JIM Fine. Fine. 
They kiss. 
MURIEL (obliquely) Is... everything all right? 
JIM (unenthusiastic) Everything's fine. (still in embrace; looking up) Hello, Simms, what brings you out with the morning dew? 
SIMMS Just dropped by to check the blueprints. Some extras came in from Retch this morning and there're a couple of things I thought we ought to go over together. 
JIM (arms still around Muriel; unconcerned) Really. What are they? 
SIMMS Well, let's see. (thumbing through sheets) Few little things here, all right, I guess. "Mortising five butts -- a dollar sixty-eight." 
JIM Let's not quibble about that. A man's entitled to mortise a few butts now and then. 
SIMMS (next sheet) Extra nails and screws -- three dollars, eighty-nine cents. 
JIM Petty larceny, but let him get away with it. 
SIMMS Now there's one here I frankly don't understand. Ah, here we are. (reads) "Changes in closet, twelve hundred and forty-seven dollars." Did you authorize that? 
JIM Well, we probably told him to -- (reacting) Twelve hundred and what?! 
SIMMS Forty-seven dollars. Changes in closet. (hands bill to Jim) 
JIM (explosively) Who does he think we are! (looks at bill; very businesslike) What's this notation: "Refer to Detail Sheet Number one thirty-five?" 
SIMMS (indicating blueprints) Far as I remember, that would be something in the back of the house. Let's just take a look. 
As he unrolls the blueprints, Jim looks suspiciously at Muriel. She seems a little nervous. 
SIMMS Ah, here we are. It isn't a closet at all. It's off the back pantry... Mrs. Blandings' little flower sink. 
JIM Oh... Mrs. Blandings' little flower sink. 
SIMMS (to Muriel) You didn't authorize any changes, did you? 
MURIEL (defensively) Well... they certainly weren't changes. 
JIM What -- have -- you -- done? 
MURIEL How could they be, dear? The bridge was closed. 
JIM I just came across it. 
MURIEL Well, it was closed last night. 
JIM (pointedly) It's open now! 
Embarrassed pause. 
BILL (attempt at breeziness) If you'll all excuse me -- I -- I think I'll just go up and slip into something a little more comfortable. 
Bill exits. Another pause. Simms, aware of the tension, wants to get out of there. 
SIMMS (rapidly) Well, that's about the size of it -- 
Through Simms' speech, Jim looks darkly at Muriel. 
SIMMS -- except that Retch had to repair the pantry wall and that meant getting a plasterer back. And of course, he couldn't have broken through that wall -- 
JIM All right, Simms, all right. We'll take care of it. 
SIMMS (preparing to exit) I'll admit it's a little steep. But I'll try to get Retch to knock a hundred dollars off the bill. If I can't get that, I'll certainly try for seventy-five. 
JIM Fine. 
SIMMS If he doesn't go for seventy-five, I'll take a stab at fifty. 
JIM You do that. 
SIMMS (at the door) Anyway, I'm almost sure we can get twenty-five. 
There is no answer. 
SIMMS (lamely) Well. Good day. 
He leaves. There is a deadly pause. 
MURIEL (carefully) Now dear, you're upset, you've got a lot of things on your mind -- 
JIM (with dangerous calm) Muriel, there's only one thing on my mind -- This house -- and how fast we can get rid of it! 
MURIEL That's not what you're thinking. 
JIM Maybe it's not. Maybe I'm thinking I was once a happy man! (the martyr) I didn't have a closet, I didn't have three bathrooms, but I did have my sanity, a few dollars in the bank, two children who loved me and a wife I could trust! 
MURIEL That's a fine thing to say! 
JIM I also had a job at Danton and Bascomb, something I don't happen to have at the moment! 
MURIEL Jim! 
JIM That's right, I've resigned! We're starting all over again! From scratch! And without this house! 
MURIEL (near tears) You love this house! 
JIM I hate it! 
In the b.g. Mr. Tesander enters, cap in hand, stands there, nervous and embarrassed. 
MURIEL You don't mean that. 
JIM Every word of it! Anybody who builds a house today is crazy! The minute you start, they put you on the list. The All-American Sucker list! Everywhere you turn they've got a hand in your pocket. If you take out their hands, they find more pockets! (explosively) It's a conspiracy, I tell you, a conspiracy against every man and woman who want a home of their own! Against every boy and girl who were ever in love! 
Tesander clears his throat. Jim turns. 
JIM (sharply) What do you want?! 
A slight embarrassed pause. Then: 
TESANDER (shyly) Well, Mr. Blandings, there's a matter of twelve dollars and eighty-six cents. 
JIM (with a wild gleam) Twelve dollars and eighty-six cents! Why be a piker, Mr. Tesander? (emptying pockets) Take everything I've got! Spread it out among your pals! (advancing toward the bewildered Tesander) Wouldn't Retch like a little something? Maybe Zucca could use my new dinner jacket? It's open house, Mr. Tesander! Help yourself! If this isn't enough I'll come over to your place and do some odd chores. Maybe I can mow your lawn or scratch your back! 
TESANDER (simply) You don't understand, Mr. Blandings. This twelve dollars and eighty-six cents -- you don't owe me, I owe you. 
There is a momentary pause. 
JIM ...W-what was that? 
TESANDER (taking out money) Found I overcharged you. Almost three feet. 
He hands the money to Jim, who stares at it blankly. 
TESANDER Better count it. I think it's all there. 
Jim looks haplessly at Muriel, sheepish, guilty. 
