MUD 
Written by 
Jeff Nichols 
Shooting Script September 16, 2011 
1 INT. ELLIS' ROOM - PREDAWN 1 
ELLIS(14) sits fully-clothed on top of his made bed. He is a wiry young man with a few blonde hairs on his upper lip struggling desperately to be a mustache. His room, cluttered with junk, is dark, quiet and tiny. A backpack and an oversized Walkie-Talkie sit next to him. The silence is cut by a SQUAWK from the Walkie. Ellis quickly grabs it. 
ELLIS I'm comin' out now. 
He crams the Walkie into his backpack and slings it over his shoulder. On his feet, he slides open a window at the foot of his bed. He's out in one motion. 
2 EXT. HOUSEBOAT - PREDAWN 2 
Ellis skirts alongside the exterior wall of his room on a two- foot-wide section of decking. He lives on a HOUSEBOAT anchored just off the bank of the Arkansas River. The "boat" is really the combination of a double wide trailer and a vinyl-sided shack fused together atop large flotilla. Ellis scurries to the mobile home section of the boat. He slips past a barbecue grill and settles underneath a lighted window. VOICES come from inside. Slowly, Ellis gets on his toes to peer through the window. 
3 INT. ELLIS' KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 3 
MARY LEE(41) takes a jug of milk out of the refrigerator. SENIOR(52) sits at a small table reading a newspaper. The mobile home kitchenette is no larger than Ellis' room. 
MARY LEE I just want to have a conversation. I just want to talk about it. 
Mary Lee sits down across from Senior, who doesn't look up from his paper. Her eyes narrow and she extends a finger toward him. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) If you don't look up from that goddamn paper... 
She stops before completing the thought. After a moment, Senior lowers his paper. He stares across the table at his wife. He looks at her with true disdain. 
His eyes trace down her face and robe before finally settling on his cup of coffee. He picks up the cup, takes a sip, and sets it back on the table. He raises the paper up. Mary Lee's eyes soften. She bites the inside of her cheek to keep from crying. Her eyes move to the kitchen window. 
4 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - CONTINUOUS 4 
Ellis quickly ducks and mouths the word "shit." He slips under the window toward a metal carport that covers a boat, fish cleaning station, and industrial ice machine. The entire houseboat is anchored to the shore by two thick ropes tied to opposite ends of the flotilla. The ropes extend upward into the tops of enormous pine trees. Ellis sprints across a simple, wood-planked bridge to shore. His houseboat is one of several in a row along the riverbank. 
5 EXT. ELLIS' RIVERBANK - CONTINUOUS 5 
Ellis scurries into the treeline and arrives at a dirt path. Waiting for him there is NECKBONE(14), a scrawny kid with slicked back blonde hair wearing a FUGAZI T-shirt. He sits atop a smallish dirt bike. Ellis hops on the back. 
NECKBONE What the shit man? 
ELLIS Suck it. Drive. The bike spits up mud as they peel out down the trail. 
6 EXT. RIVERBANK - PREDAWN 6 
From a distance, the single headlight of the dirt bike snakes up and down, in and out of trees along the riverbank. 
ON THE BIKE, The sound of the engine rips through fog and trees illuminated by the straining headlight. 
7 EXT. RIVERBANK - DAWN 7 
The boys emerge from behind a sand covered hill. Now on foot, they are silhouetted against a light blue, morning sky. 
NECKBONE How old is she? 
ELLIS A Junior. 
At a collection of trees growing out of the water, the boys move branches away from a tarp covered boat. 
NECKBONE She's got nice titties. You talk to her? 
ELLIS Nah. 
NECKBONE You're gonna have to talk to her. 
ELLIS I know. 
NECKBONE Remind me when we get back to my house, Galen's got a book on that. Neckbone takes a spot up front in the small, flat-bottom boat. Ellis, a foot on the bank and one in the boat, launches them out into the water. 
8 EXT. RIVER - MORNING 8 
ELLIS And when you leave, that boat's ours? 
MUD Yeah. Ellis studies Mud's face, clothes, tattoos. He's thinking about it. Mud pauses from fishing to make eye contact. 
MUD (CONT'D) I'm in a tight spot. I just need a little help. 
ELLIS We gotta go. With that, Ellis turns to leave. The boys walk briskly back to their boat. Ellis looks over his shoulder to see Mud making another cast with his fishing pole. 
18 EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - MOMENTS LATER 18 
Ellis motors them away from the island. 
ELLIS You get his name?! 
NECKBONE No! Ellis looks back. Mud has disappeared. 
19 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - DAY 19 
Senior heaves an enormous, white cooler into the bed of his weathered pick-up truck. The truck is parked at an angle on a concrete boat ramp next to their houseboat. The bed of the truck is jam-packed with six of the big, white coolers. The SOUND of a dirt bike rattles through the trees. Senior looks up, wiping his brow with a handkerchief. Ellis leaps out of the treeline and runs to the pick-up. His hands hit his knees, out of breath. 
ELLIS I'm sorry. 
SENIOR Where you been? 
ELLIS Neck and I got caught up helpin' Galen. 
SENIOR You're s'posed to be helpin' me. I had to load this myself. 
ELLIS I know, I'm sorry. 
SENIOR Just get in the back. Can't be later than we are. 
ELLIS Yessir. Senior flips up the tailgate. Ellis hops up the wheel well and into the bed of the truck. He steadies himself on one of the coolers as his father pulls away. 
EXT. DEWITT/MONTAGE - DAY 
SERIES OF IMAGES: 
20 -Ellis looks around as he rides in the bed of the pick-up 20 truck. He's propped up on a cooler against the back window. The truck works its way down a two-lane highway. A20 -Driving, they pass a marina junkyard filled with old boats A20 and sailing paraphernalia. B20 -Downtown Dewitt. A gas station. A Clinic. Rows of red B20 brick buildings, some abandoned, a small furniture store. C20 -Parked, Ellis fills a grocery sack up with Ziplock bags fullC20 of white fish and ice out of the coolers. -He hops out of the truck and runs the sack of fish to the front door of a house. An elderly black man waits there. 
21 EXT. SONIC DRIVE-IN - DAY 21 
Ellis sits in the bed of the truck eating a chili dog. Senior is up front wolfing down a cheeseburger. A GROUP of TEENAGERS are gathered around a CLUSTER of parked cars in the corner of the lot. They meander between the vehicles, smoking, gossiping, passing around a bottle of Boone's Farm. Ellis watches them. MAY PEARL(16) appears in the middle of the Group laughing with her GIRLFRIENDS. She's pretty and physically more mature looking than Ellis. He watches as a SKINNY KID takes his ballcap off and puts it on May Pearl's head. She sniffs the cap, gags and tosses it back at him. Her friends laugh. 
SENIOR Let's go son. Ellis crumples the wrapper to his finished hotdog and jumps down from the bed of the truck. 
22 I/E. SENIOR'S TRUCK/TWO-LANE ROAD - MOVING - DAY 22 Ellis rides up front with his father. Senior is a reserved man, older than Ellis' mother by several years. He's got thinning hair under the cap that only leaves his head when he sleeps. He reaches into his shirt pocket and fishes out a fold of cash. He slips out a five dollar bill and hands it to Ellis. 
ELLIS It's s'posed to be ten. 
SENIOR It's ten you do your share. I loaded this mornin'. That makes it five. Ellis begrudgingly stuffs the five in his jeans. 
ELLIS You drop me at Neck's? Senior checks his pants pockets, feels around under his seat. 
SENIOR Hadn't you seen enougha him today? 
ELLIS Said he had something for me. 
SENIOR You see anymore Ding Dongs over there? Ellis checks under his seat and pulls out a half-empty box of Ding Dongs. Hands one over to his father who rips the package with his teeth. 
ELLIS What'd Momma wanna talk to you about? 
SENIOR What? 
ELLIS This mornin', what'd she wanna talk with you about? 
SENIOR You spy on me in my own house? 
ELLIS I wasn't spyin', just heard ya'll. 
SENIOR That's your mother's business. Senior makes this his answer, eats the Ding Dong. 
23 EXT. NECKBONE'S TRAILER - DAY 23 
NECKBONE You really going back out there? 
ELLIS I think it's the right thing to do. 
NECKBONE Well...I'll be over in the mornin' then. Galen, his thumbs tucked under his armpits, walks back to the trailer. He passes the boys and notices the self-help book in Ellis' hands. 
GALEN 
(WITHOUT STOPPING) That's a good book. Be sure you do the worksheets in the back. Let's get some dinner Neck. Galen's gone inside. 
NECKBONE I'll call 'fore I come. 
ELLIS All right. Neckbone follows his uncle into the trailer. Ellis flips through his new book as he heads out of the trailer park. 
26 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - NIGHT 26 
By the time Ellis makes it to his houseboat, the sun has disappeared behind the horizon. He crosses the make-shift plank and enters through a screen door by the carport. 
27 INT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - DEN - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS 27 
Mary Lee flinches when she sees Ellis come through the door. Her face is flushed. Senior stands toe to toe with her. They stare at Ellis, who has paused in the doorway. He doesn't say anything, just looks curiously at his parents. Senior storms past Ellis and is out the door. Ellis steps further into the den. Mary Lee tries to straighten herself, patting down her hair and dabbing at her eyes with the back of her hand. 
ELLIS You okay momma? 
MARY LEE Yes. 
She walks into the kitchen keeping Ellis at her back. She turns on the sink and begins scrubbing at a dish. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) Do you need me to fix you somethin'? Have you eaten? 
ELLIS I'm all right. Mary Lee shuts off the water and lets the dish rest in the sink. She turns to Ellis. 
MARY LEE I'm gonna turn in. 
ELLIS Okay momma. Mary Lee slips past him and enters her bedroom. The door closes and Ellis is left alone in the den. It's quiet. He waits, looking at the door his mother just closed. Ellis walks into the kitchen and eases open a cabinet door. Checking over his shoulder, he zips his backpack open and fills it with CANNED FOOD. 
28 EXT. TOM BLANKENSHIP'S HOUSEBOAT - DAY 28 
Hands pump the stock of a high-powered pellet gun. TOM BLANKENSHIP(67), white hair cut high and tight wearing a short-sleeve button up, takes careful aim with the pellet gun. Tom sits in a lawn chair atop the roof of his houseboat. He squeezes his left eye shut. A snake's head pokes out of the water about 15 yards off his boat. The head makes for a target no bigger than a thumb. Tom's left eye snaps open and he fires. The pellet rips through the snake's head. Its body floats to the surface. Tom takes account of his shot as he pumps the air rifle. He scans the water for more targets. 
29 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - CONTINUOUS 29 
Ellis watches Tom Blankenship from across the bayou. Tom's boat sits directly opposite Ellis', separated by 30 yards of muddy brown water. Ellis leans against a post under the carport. His backpack resting at his feet, he holds the Walkie-Talkie in his hand. Senior works behind him washing utensils in the outdoor sink. 
ELLIS What do you know about Tom Blankenship? 
SENIOR What? Senior doesn't turn around from his work at the sink. 
ELLIS Mr. Blankenship, what do you know about him? 
SENIOR Why? 
ELLIS I don't know. He looks lonely over there. 
SENIOR Some people move to this river to work on it, and some move here to be left alone. Senior makes his way to the ice machine and begins scooping ice into a large white cooler. Mary Lee emerges from the houseboat dressed for work, a secretarial job. Senior stops what he's doing to watch her. She walks over to Ellis. 
MARY LEE Let's sit down for dinner tonight okay? Will you make it home by seven? 
ELLIS Yes ma'am. She walks off the boat without a glance in Senior's direction. He trails her with his eyes before going back to digging in the ice. A29 Ellis looks back at Tom. The Walkie SQUAWKS out several A29 loud BEEPS. Ellis crams it in his backpack and runs off the boat. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) Bye Dad. Senior holds a hand up but never looks up from his work. 
30 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - DAY 30 
Water laps at the shore of the island. Ellis and Neckbone drag their boat onto the muddy bank. 
NECKBONE Where you think he's at? 
ELLIS I guess we should try the boat. They head for the treeline. 
31 EXT. BASE OF BOAT TREE - DAY 31 
The boys emerge from the woods, their attention focused up to the boat hovering in the tree some twenty feet above them. Ellis notices the remnants of a fire on the ground. A log pushed up next to it for a seat. Ellis kicks at the ash. 
NECKBONE What'd they do? 
MUD Gave me antivenom. For a cotton mouth. See here. Mud shows the tattoo on top of his right hand. He points out the two cotton blossoms bulging from the snake's mouth. 
MUD (CONT'D) Problem with antivenom is they can only give it to you once. It's made from horse blood. Your body would reject it a second time. The cure ends up being more dangerous than the poison. 
ELLIS What happens if you get bit again? 
MUD I die, or just sweat it out. Neckbone, not buying it, looks at Ellis and taps his watch. 
ELLIS We gotta go help Neck's uncle. 
MUD All right. 
ELLIS You never said your name. 
MUD Mud. You can call me Mud. 
ELLIS Mud? 
MUD 
M-U-D. Neckbone tosses the braided rope back. It lands at his feet. 
NECKBONE Here you go, Mud. I think you need that worse than I do. 
MUD 
(SMILING) I'll be all right. The boys disappear back into the trees. 
34 INT. GARY'S ELECTRIC SHOP - DAY 34 
A switch clicks "ON". BLINDING LIGHT emits from two FLOOD LAMPS encased in plastic shells. The switch clicks "OFF" and the lights dim to the dull orange glow of their filaments. 
GALEN They look bright enough. The owner of the shop, an ELECTRICIAN(62), holds up a metal bar with the lamps affixed by bolts at either end. 
ELECTRICIAN Should be. I rigged DC power up through marine batteries. Makes it portable. Gave you a rigging bar to set on your shoulder. 
GALEN So you really think these'll work under water? 
ELECTRICIAN In theory. 
35 EXT. GARY'S ELECTRIC/PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 35 
Ellis and Neckbone sit on the tailgate of Galen's truck. The Gary's Electric sign hangs behind them. Neckbone focuses on a carburetor in his hand. Ellis stares across the street at the Piggly Wiggly parking lot where the roving GROUP of TEENAGERS have collected for the afternoon. The Teenagers are up to their typical gossip and minor offenses. Ellis has zeroed in on May Pearl again. 
NECKBONE You start datin' I bet her dad'll give you a free pick-up truck. 
ELLIS I don't care about that. Ellis watches as the same Skinny Kid from before tries to flirt with her. She's not having it. He pops her bra strap before landing the final straw, a smack on her ass. She turns and swats at him. Seeing this, Ellis is on his feet and crossing the street. 
NECKBONE What's goin' on? Ellis doesn't turn back. Neckbone reluctantly sets the carburetor down and follows. 
36 EXT. PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 36 
MAY PEARL Stop it! She shoves the Skinny Kid, but he continues laughing. 
ELLIS (O.S.) Hey. Ellis taps the Kid on the shoulder. As he turns, Ellis PUNCHES him in the face. The Kid, completely taken off guard, stumbles and trips to the ground. Some older, tougher looking GUYS see this and begin laughing at him. 
OLDER KID Holy shit Pryor, get off your ass. Pryor collects himself and gets off the ground. Ego bruised, he walks off mumbling. The Older Kids keep riding him. May Pearl sizes up Ellis. 
MAY PEARL You didn't have to do that. 
ELLIS He was messin' with you. 
MAY PEARL Do I know you? 
ELLIS I'm Ellis. That's Neck. Neckbone waves by wagging a finger in the air. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) We went to Junior High with you, before you went to High School. 
MAY PEARL How old are you? 
ELLIS Fourteen. 
By the time Ellis makes it back home, the sun has gone from the sky. He crosses the makeshift plank to board his house. 
SENIOR (O.S.) Home for dinner? Ellis is startled by his father's voice. Senior sits in a lawn chair under the eaves of the carport. He's hidden in shadow, save for a red glow from the tip of his cigarette. 
ELLIS What you hidin' for? 
SENIOR I ain't hidin'. He notices Senior tip back a pint of liquor and set it at his feet. Ellis opens the screen door leading inside. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) Come over here. Ellis lets the door fall shut and skulks over to a beam that supports the carport. He leans into it. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) You know I love you? 
ELLIS Yessir. I know. 
SENIOR I work you hard 'cause life is work. You know that? 
ELLIS Yessir. 
SENIOR Your Mamma's been talkin' 'bout movin' in town. 
ELLIS What's that mean? 
SENIOR She seems set on it. Wants to separate. She may ask me for a divorce. This hits Ellis like a ton of bricks. He rights himself. 
ELLIS What's that mean for me? 
SENIOR It means enjoy the river son. Enjoy it while you live on it, 'cause this way a life isn't long for this world. Game and fish's 'bout made certain of that. 
ELLIS But you and me can still live out here. Game and fish can't take your boat. Not while you're still in it. 
SENIOR The houseboat's in your mother's name. Her daddy give it to her not me. If she wants to leave it, Game and Fish has ever' right to take this boat apart board by board. 
ELLIS But that ain't right. You work outta here. We got the ice machine, the traps. What are we supposed to do? 
SENIOR Like I said, this is your mother's business. 
ELLIS I ain't no townie. I ain't livin' like that. Senior takes a slow pull off the bottle. Ellis' mind races. 
SENIOR I've let you down. A man should be in charge of his own affairs, but I haven't worked it like that. 
ELLIS But ya'll are married. Ya'll are s'posed to love each other. 
SENIOR I don't know about that anymore. 
Ellis is speechless. After a moment, he turns to go inside. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) Ellis? He stops and turns back to his father. Senior tries to express a sentiment he doesn't have the words for. Ellis continues inside. 
40 INT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - DEN - CONTINUOUS 40 
Mary Lee sits hunched at the made dinner table. She runs her finger around the rim of a half empty glass of iced tea. It's a full spread with fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and a salad. The table is set for two. She's been waiting. Ellis lets the front door slam shut behind him. She sits up. 
MARY LEE You're late. Ellis doesn't speak, he doesn't look at her. He enters his room and shuts the door. He's heard the news and she knows it. Mary Lee's face drops. 
41 INT. ELLIS' ROOM - CONTINUOUS 41 
Ellis slings his backpack down, pacing the small room. He stops and leans his forehead against the door. The sound of his Mother clearing the table seeps through. He kicks the door, cracking its shitty composite wood. His face flushed and his breathing heavy, he slides to a seat. On the verge of hyperventilating, he stares out the dark bedroom window trying to get control of his breathing. Ellis looks at his backpack. It has spilled open revealing a can of Beanie Weenie. Ellis studies the can. He looks back to the window. His breathing settles. Quickly, he scoops up the backpack and heads out the window. 
42 EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - NIGHT 42 
It's pitch black. The only light comes from the moon's reflection off the surface of the water. Ellis, eyes wide, navigates the small boat through choppy black water. 
43 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - NIGHT 43 
Ellis struggles to pull the boat onto shore. Leaving it half in the water, Ellis looks around. No sign of Mud. He sizes up the dark woods. He removes a flashlight from his backpack and shines it down the shorelines. Still nothing. Ellis follows the beam of light into the woods. 
44 EXT. ISLAND WOODS - NIGHT 44 
Ellis stands at the creek that cuts through the island. He can make out a campfire glowing through trees in the distance. A RUSTLING behind him. He swings the light around. Nothing but trees. Ellis takes a deep breath. Finding the log to cross, he shines his light down into the creek. The nest of snakes show their backs. 
45 EXT. BASE OF BOAT TREE - NIGHT 45 
A campfire burns at the base of the tree. The firelight illuminates the belly of the boat that rests 20 feet above. Ellis, his flashlight off, crouches behind a tree and watches the campsite. There is no one there. He looks into the black forest behind him, thinks of going back. A twig snaps in the distance and he's back on guard. Ellis nervously scans the woods before finally stepping into the light of the campfire. The SOUND of a gun's hammer drawing back CLICKS behind him. Ellis freezes. Mud emerges from the trees, a .45 extended toward Ellis' back. 
MUD No. We picked another place to meet. Couple days from now. Mud walks back to the log and sits. 
ELLIS You wanna go tonight? I can give you a ride up river. Mud looks at Ellis, nodding. 
MUD Tomorrow. I'll go tomorrow. 
ELLIS You need me to come get you? 
MUD Naw. I can manage. Hell I got out here didn't I? Ellis smiles. They sit in silence. Ellis stares up at the boat hanging over them, its peeling hull lit by the firelight. Mud pinches the ash from the end of his cigarette, places the stub back in his shirt pocket. Noticing Ellis, Mud tilts his head back to take in the boat. 
MUD (CONT'D) It's a helluva thing. Mud pauses, his mind working on something. 
MUD (CONT'D) Helluva thing. The two sit by the campfire staring up at the suspended boat. 
46 INT. ELLIS' ROOM - MORNING 46 
Mary Lee knocks on her way into the bedroom. 
MARY LEE Time to get up. She begins picking clothes off the floor. Ellis, in bed, raises up on his elbows. He's tired from a late night. 
ELLIS It's Saturday. 
MARY LEE I'm going to Wal-Mart. I need you to come with me. 
ELLIS 
(MOANING) Mom. 
MARY LEE Come on. She pulls the covers off of him. 
47 I/E. MARY LEE'S CAR/INTERSTATE - DAY 47 The two ride in an awkward silence. 
Ellis stares at the farmland passing by outside as Mary Lee steers the compact Toyota down a four-lane interstate. 
MARY LEE Ellis I know what your father told you last night. That's not what I wanted. I wanted to sit you down and talk about it. 
ELLIS What do you wanna talk about? You want to leave and that means they can tear up our house. 
MARY LEE I've spent my whole life on that boat. I don't think it's too much to ask for your... Mary Lee is interrupted by a line of traffic backed up in front of her. She slows to a stop. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) Oh no. I hope no one's hurt. There are flashing police lights up ahead. Ellis tries to see what's going on but can't make anything out past the line of cars. They inch forward. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) I'm just saying there are two sides to this. I haven't made up my mind about anything because I want you to be involved in my decision, but I need a change Ellis. I deserve one. As they approach the flashing lights, they see three State Trooper vehicles parked to funnel traffic down to one lane. The STATE TROOPERS stop each car, checking the trunks. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) I think they're searching people. A Trooper signals Mary Lee to pull up to a stop. Two other Troopers approach her vehicle. The first begins looking in her back windows as the second leans down to speak to her. She lowers her window. 
TROOPER Can you open the trunk please ma'am? 
MARY LEE Of course. 
Mary Lee pulls the lever by her knee, and the second Trooper walks around the back of the car. 
TROOPER Have you picked up or seen any hitchhikers today ma'am? 
MARY LEE No sir. The Trooper produces a flier with a color photo on it. 
TROOPER Have you seen this man? 
MARY LEE No sir. The Trooper leans over and holds the paper out to Ellis. 
TROOPER Son, have you seen this man? Ellis looks at the photo. It's of Mud. He looks exactly the same as he did last night, down to the shirt. In the photo, Mud's smiling, revealing his missing tooth. 
ELLIS No. 
TROOPER We've had reports that he's in this area. If you see him, call 9-1-1 immediately. 
MARY LEE We will officer. The Trooper pulls his head from the window. 
ELLIS What'd he do?! The Trooper bends back down and looks at Ellis. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) 
(MORE CALM) What'd he do? 
MUD What state troopers? 
NECKBONE The ones spreadin' your picture all over the place. Stoppin' cars on 165 searchin' for your ass. Mud factors this in and then goes back to writing. 
MUD I didn't know about that, but it doesn't surprise me. There plenty of folks lookin' for me right now. 
ELLIS Why? 
MUD I shot a man. Killed him. 
Mud stands and walks to the back of the boat. The boys' eyes follow him cautiously. Mud lifts a hatch at the back that would typically house the batteries and engine wiring. There's nothing left but a hole into the trees. He makes a note. 
MUD (CONT'D) I'm sorry I didn't tell ya'll sooner, but I was hopin' to be gone before anything came of it. Didn't want you involved. Mud turns to really face them for the first time. 
MUD (CONT'D) Ya'll have been real good to me. You're the only friends I got out here. If the state troopers have 165 blocked, they'll have others blocked too. I won't get anywhere in a car. I want to try takin' this boat down, see if we can get it in the water. Ellis and Neckbone stand their ground. They don't say anything. Mud walks back to the steering column. He drops to his knees and fiddles with the wires. 
MUD (CONT'D) With a boat like this I can make it to the gulf in two days. I could get anywhere from there. But I'd need a boat at least this big to make it on open water. It's got no title, no owner, nobody lookin' for it. It's my best shot. 
NECKBONE Who'd you kill? 
MUD It was a bad piece of business. Ya'll don't need to hear about it. 
ELLIS I need to hear about it. Mud sits up. He looks at Ellis, deciding how much to tell. 
MUD Juniper made a mistake. She hooked up with a guy. He was no good. His name was Hutchins. Family owns a chain of restaurants down in Texas. 
ELLIS Where were you? 
MUD I was around, but me and Juniper were on the outs. She met this Hutchins, he sold her on some lies. Got her pregnant. That's when he started showin' who he really was. He dropped June down a flight of stairs after whoopin' her half to death. She lost the baby. He made it so the doctors think she can't have children anymore. There're things you can get away with in this world and things you can't. I tracked him down at a motel just outside of San Antonio. He was there with another woman. That's where it happened. Mud's done with his story. He goes back to the wiring. 
MUD (CONT'D) I understand if you can't help me anymore, but I need this boat. And I need to get it in the water fast. After a moment, he sits up and wipes sweat from his forehead. 
MUD (CONT'D) I've made a list. Things we'll need. What do ya'll think? Ellis takes time to consider everything. He looks at Neckbone, who has a disgruntled look on his face. 
ELLIS You did it for her? To protect her? 
MUD Yeah. Ellis nods. Mud looks over at Neckbone, who still has the disgruntled look on his face. 
MUD (CONT'D) What do you think? 
NECKBONE I think you want us to run around, stickin' our necks out, gettin' everything you need, just so you can take our boat. 
MUD That's about it. Mud removes a cigarette butt and sparks it with a lighter. 
NECKBONE What do we get out of it? 
MUD What do you want? Neckbone looks to Ellis, judging his bargaining position. 
NECKBONE What about that pistol? Mud eyes the boy, pulling on the nub of cigarette. 
MUD I only got two things out here worth anything. This shirt... Mud pulls the pistol from the back of his jeans. Neckbone tenses, but relaxes when Mud splays it out on an open palm. 
MUD (CONT'D) And this pistol. I can't give you the shirt `cause I need it for protection, but if you help me get this boat in the water, the pistol's yours. Neckbone squinches his face in thought, sizing up this trade. 
NECKBONE What kind is it? 
MUD A forty five. 
NECKBONE I guess we could work a deal like that. Neckbone steps forward to grab the pistol, but Mud puts it back in his jeans. 
MUD We get this thing floatin' first. Neckbone looks over at Ellis, who shrugs. 
NECKBONE All right then. 
Mud smiles, flashing his missing tooth. He spits in his palm and holds it out to Neckbone. Neckbone, not sure about taking the spit hand, reluctantly shakes. Mud rips a page from the notebook and hands it to Ellis. 
MUD Ya'll scrounge what you can off this list, but if we're gonna get this done right we'll need more help. Can you fetch Tom for me? 
ELLIS Tom Blankenship? Mud has smoked down to the filter. He crushes the butt into his palm and puts it back in his shirt pocket. 
MUD I was hopin' to let that old assassin stay put, but we'll need him to get things ya'll can't. Can you find him? 
ELLIS I know where he lives, but I've never spoke to him. 
MUD Sir. They stare at each other for a long moment. Neither one flinching. 
BY THE BOAT, At this distance, the boys can't hear what is being said, but they try and size up the situation through body language. 
NECKBONE You think that's his dad? 
ELLIS I don't know. 
BY THE TREELINE, 
TOM Where is she? 
MUD In town. Got here yesterday. Tom lowers his head. Frustrated. 
TOM Why you out here like this? 
BY THE BOAT, 
The boys see Mud take a seat on a nearby stump. He's explaining something. Tom listens, standing over him. 
NECKBONE They don't look like family. Ellis watches Mud as he gestures and speaks. He seems different. Younger. Mud stops talking. Tom scratches a hand through his white crew cut. He begins pointing a finger at Mud. His face is flushed and the sound of his voice carries to the boys, though still unintelligible. 
NECKBONE (CONT'D) He's really givin' it to him. 
AT THE TREELINE, Mud's head hangs as Tom shouts at him. 
TOM You've spent your whole life followin' that girl! She's run you halfway cross the country and back, and for what? For this, left out on an island beggin' for help. A murderer. A thief. 
MUD I ain't no thief. 
TOM What would you call it then? Don't even mention draggin' those boys into this. Do you have any idea what you're doin'? Waits for a response, but Mud gives none. 
TOM (CONT'D) I'm ashamed of you. Mud looks up at him. 
TOM (CONT'D) Don't expect help from me. There's none to be given. 
AT THE BOAT, They see Tom turn his back on Mud and head toward the boat. Mud doesn't protest; he doesn't move. Tom brushes past Ellis. 
TOM (CONT'D) I'm ready. Tom shoves the boat back into the water. Neckbone helps him. Ellis looks back at Mud, who still hasn't moved from his stump. He goes to him. Tom sees this and stops pushing. 
TOM (CONT'D) 
(TO HIMSELF) Dammit. 
AT THE TREELINE, Ellis stops a good six feet back from where Mud sits. 
ELLIS You all right? Mud raises his head. 
MUD Looks like we're on our own. He stands and takes a folded piece of paper from his shirt. 
MUD (CONT'D) I didn't want you bein' the one to do this, but I can't see a way around it. I need to get this letter to Juniper. Could you take it to her for me? 
ELLIS Yeah. 
MUD You have to be careful. You can't just walk up and knock on her door, you hear me? You have to watch yourself. 
ELLIS I can handle it. Ellis steps forward and Mud hands over the note. Ellis takes it and walks back to the others. 
AT THE BOAT, Tom stares at Ellis as he climbs on board. Tom looks back at Mud, who is watching him. He gives the boat a final shove before pulling himself in. They motor away. Tom doesn't look back. 
57 EXT. RIVER/SHELLY'S OXBOW - MOVING - DAY 57 
NECKBONE You Mud's daddy? 
TOM Mud didn't have no daddy. No mother I ever knew of. He was livin' in the woods when I met him. Younger than you are now. Tom doesn't offer anymore. Neckbone thinks on his answer. Ellis kills the engine near the mouth of Shelly's Oxbow. Tom jumps down into the knee deep river and wades onto shore. He turns back to the boys. 
TOM (CONT'D) Ya'll need to watch yourselves. Don't go gettin' into something you don't have any business in. Mud's into something you don't want any part of. I suggest you forget about him. Ellis and Neckbone don't respond. Tom, with a final admonishing look, disappears into the woods. Ellis cranks the motor and points the boat up river. 
58 EXT. RIVER - MOVING - MOMENTS LATER 58 
Edges of the notebook paper flap in the wind. Neckbone reads Mud's letter to Juniper. Ellis reaches the bank where they stash their boat. He shuts off the motor and let's them drift. Neckbone folds the letter back up and turns to face Ellis. 
ELLIS What do you think? 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) I'm so sorry. Tears form and run down her cheeks. 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) Here. She takes his hand and places it against the towel. She gets to her feet and pulls a pocket book from a bag in the corner. 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) How much is your fish? I'll buy the cooler full. Ellis motions Neckbone to the cooler. Neckbone goes over and crams his hand into the ice. He removes a Ziplock bag containing the note that Mud sent. Neckbone hands it to Ellis. Taking the note, he sets his ice down and walks over to Juniper. 
ELLIS Mud sent us to give this to you. Juniper is stunned. She looks at the bag, then at the boys. 
JUNIPER You've met Mud? Ellis nods. Neckbone speaks up from the back. 
NECKBONE Yeah we met him. Juniper takes the bag. She removes the letter and takes a seat on the edge of the bed to read it. Ellis watches her eyes move along the paper. She smiles, which makes Ellis smile. After a moment, she folds it up. 
JUNIPER He tells me to hold tight. 
NECKBONE Yeah, we read it. Juniper raises her eyebrows at Neckbone. 
JUNIPER Well do you know how long `hold tight' is? 
ELLIS I think it's a couple days. He wants to get a boat for ya'll. 
JUNIPER God. Juniper shakes her head and goes to the sink. She pulls a lighter from her jeans pocket and torches Mud's note. 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) Tell him I'll wait. Running water over the ashes, she turns back to them. 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) But I don't want ya'll involved. Tell him what I said and make that it. I don't want you gettin' in any trouble. 
ELLIS We won't. 
JUNIPER What do you call that? She motions to his swelling eye. Ellis shrugs. 
ELLIS We'll be all right. Keep your door locked. We'll be in touch. Ellis heads to the door as Neckbone gathers up the cooler. 
JUNIPER Wait. Ellis turns back. 
JUNIPER (CONT'D) What's your name? 
ELLIS I'm Ellis. That's Neckbone. 
Juniper walks up to Ellis and puts her hands on his shoulders. She has to bend slightly to do it, but she kisses him just above his swollen eye. 
JUNIPER Thank you Ellis. Ellis stares at her, infatuated. 
NECKBONE We gotta go. Ellis turns and grabs one end of the cooler. Neckbone slaps back the security latch and opens the door with his free hand. They walk out. 
63 EXT. EXECUTIVE INN/JUNIPER'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS - DUSK 63 
Ellis, his foot on the door, looks back at Juniper. 
ELLIS Lock the door. She smiles. The door slams shut. The room number, 212, stares Ellis in the face. He takes a deep breath. 
NECKBONE Let's go hard on. He and Ellis wrangle the cooler down the steps. The sun set while they were inside. A blue hue hangs over everything. 
64 I/E. CARVER'S LINCOLN/PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 64 Carver takes a drag off a cigarette from behind the steering wheel of his black Lincoln town car, conscious to blow any smoke out the open driver's window. His car, wedged between two others in the Piggly Wiggly parking lot, is pointed toward the Executive Inn. He watches as Ellis and Neckbone load the cooler onto Neckbone's bike. 
65 INT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - NIGHT 65 
Ellis enters his houseboat. It's quiet. He sees a note on the counter next to a can of soup. It reads, "I've gone to a movie. Warm up some soup for dinner. Love, Mom". Ellis picks up the can, not thrilled. He goes to the fridge and grabs a sack of peas from the freezer. Holding the peas against his eye he takes a seat at the counter and flips through a phone book. He finds what he needs and dials a corded phone. He waits. 
ELLIS Hello? Is May Pearl there?...This is Ellis...Hey, it's Ellis. Hey... What?...In the phone book... from his car commercials...I think they're all right...Tomorrow? Yeah, I can meet you... Okay. Bye. Ellis hangs up the phone. With the peas pressed firmly against his face, he smirks. 
CUT TO: 
66 SERIES OF IMAGES: 66 -Neckbone's sneaker busts through a rotten plank of wood. -Inside a decrepit wooden shack, Ellis gives Neckbone a look like he's a dumbass as they proceed to take the shack apart board by board. Ellis now has a full-on BLACK EYE. A66 -Neckbone stands lookout under the carport section of Ellis' A66 houseboat. The coast clear, he gives Ellis a nod. Ellis pops open a metal locker and removes a small chainsaw and container of gas. He loads these into an empty fish cooler. B66 -Tom, sitting atop his houseboat with his pellet gun, watchesB66 as the two boys sneak the tools away. He's displeased. C66 -At Neckbone's mobile home park, Ellis heaves loops of thick C66 rope onto their mini dirt bike trailer. Neckbone stands nearby laughing with the rope's OWNER, a lanky guy with brown teeth and a Tasmanian Devil tattoo on his neck. AC66 -Ellis hoists Neckbone up by the foot allowing him to AC66 unscrew a road sign. D66 -A mop soaked in black tar slops across the flat roof of the D66 furniture store in downtown Dewitt. Neckbone and Ellis stand in the store's parking lot yelling up to the ROOFERS. -They get one's attention, and Neckbone points to a dried pile of leftover tar that has been dumped at the back of the building. The ROOFER swats a hand at the boys. They proceed to load the dried hunk onto the small trailer. E66 -From a distance, Neckbone and Ellis stand on a sailboat in E66 the middle of a fenced-in marine junkyard. Surrounded by old boat parts, the boys begin shuttling several large metal pulleys off the sailboat. 
67 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - DAY 67 
Mud smiles, showing his missing tooth, as he looks over the load of items the boys have stacked in their boat. Neckbone tosses a loop of rope to him. 
61A. 
NECKBONE We've got more, but no motor. 
MUD This'll work for now. You get her my note? 
Ellis drops down to the deck and grabs another pulley. 
ELLIS What'd you mean when you called Tom an assassin? 
MUD Tom's had lives you'd never know about. Grew up up North. Went to Yale. For a long time he was a paid killer for the C.I.A. Lived in Cuba in `63. He's probably killed more people than you've met. 
(TO NECKBONE) Hand me that line. Neckbone tosses him an end of rope, looks to Ellis. Ellis gives a shrug before heading back up the trunk. 
70 EXT. BASE OF BOAT TREE - DAY - LATER 70 
Mud hangs off the tree fifteen feet up by a piece of rope tied around his waist. A series of ropes and pulleys crisscross from the boat to the trees. Neckbone and Ellis stand on the ground staring up at him. Mud holds a chainsaw and seems to be hesitating. 
NECKBONE Well if you're gonna do it do it! Mud takes a deep breath and yanks the cord. Angled on one of the main branches holding up the boat, Mud begins cutting. Ellis and Neckbone step further and further back as they watch the chainsaw work through the thick limb. Suddenly, the chainsaw stops. A deep CRACKING sound. The huge branch SNAPS, tumbling off lower limbs before crashing to the ground. Mud holds onto the trunk for dear life. The branch now rests on the ground, SILENCE. The ropes and pulleys hang taught, squeaking from the weight of the boat. Mud slowly lifts his head up. He smiles at what he sees. The rigging has held. 
MUD One down! Neckbone and Ellis watch as Mud scampers around the trunk to the next branch. The chainsaw cranks back on. 
NECKBONE This shit is crazy. 
71 I/E. MARY LEE'S CAR/PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - LATE 71 
AFTERNOON Ellis looks out the car window at HIGH SCHOOL KIDS that have gathered in the Piggly Wiggly parking lot. His hair is slicked to one side, and he's wearing a collared shirt. 
MARY LEE You look nice. 
ELLIS Thanks. 
MARY LEE What time are you gonna be home? Ellis shrugs. She looks at him as the car radio rambles. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) No later than eleven? Ellis nods. 
ELLIS You make up your mind? 
MARY LEE About moving in town? 
ELLIS About leavin' dad. Mary Lee thinks about how to answer, shuts off the radio. 
MARY LEE You can't make other people change Ellis. If I'm unhappy then I'll have to be the one to change something. Ellis chews on the inside of his cheek and watches her avoid eye contact. He shoulders his way out of the car. Mary Lee takes a moment before driving off. As Mary Lee pulls away, Ellis takes in the scene. 
72 EXT. EXECUTIVE INN - LATE AFTERNOON - ELLIS POV 72 
He looks up at Juniper's motel room and sees her leaning on the railing smoking a cigarette. She doesn't see him. 
73 EXT. PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON - CONTINUOUS 73 
He pauses, noticing a MAN to his left who ALSO stares up at Juniper. The man, early thirties with a thick mustache, is JAMES. He leans against the grill of a black Lincoln. 
Carver appears from inside the Piggly Wiggly. He holds a cup of coffee and is closely trailed by a fat little man, NELSON(56). They're all dressed in a similar fashion, a cross between rural farmers and rodeo stars. As Carver approaches the Lincoln, he scolds James for leaning on the grill. Carver rubs the hood with his coat sleeve and gives orders to the men. 
MAY PEARL (O.S.) Ellis! Ellis turns to see May Pearl hopping down from a Ford Bronco. She leans on the door and waves Ellis into the back. 
MAY PEARL (CONT'D) Come on! Ellis takes another look at Carver and his men before running over to the Bronco. 
74 EXT. FIELD/BONFIRE - NIGHT 74 
A bonfire rages in the middle of an open field. A FEW DOZEN KIDS mingle between vehicles and the fire. Drinking, yelling, music blasting from car speakers. Ellis stands by himself next to the blaze with his hands in his pockets. May Pearl has vanished. Pryor, the skinny kid Ellis punched to get this date, wanders past. He makes eye contact. Ellis stares him down. Pryor glares back but then just skulks over to another group. 
MAY PEARL (O.S.) Try this. A Styrofoam Sonic Cup is thrust into Ellis' hand. He turns to find May Pearl standing next to him. 
MAY PEARL (CONT'D) Come on. She leads Ellis behind one of the trucks parked nearby. May Pearl climbs onto the tailgate, a red glow across her face. No one else is around. Ellis hesitates. 
MAY PEARL (CONT'D) You wanna sit down? Ellis takes a seat next to her. She looks at him, smiling, and gestures to his black eye. 
MAY PEARL (CONT'D) You must really like to fight? 
ELLIS Not really. Ellis takes a sip from the Sonic cup. His face puckers. 
MAY PEARL But you're not scared if you have to. 
ELLIS I guess. You got a lot of friends. 
MAY PEARL They're all right. I don't know all of `em. 
ELLIS I bet you're pretty popular. 
TOM He tell you why he shot that man? 
ELLIS Because he hurt Juniper. 
TOM Right. The real reason Mud's in the trouble he's got is because of her. He's been in love with that girl since he was your age. They used to run all around here and it was the same back then. He'd follow that girl wherever she led him. Problem is she don't care about nobody but herself. I've told him as much. She'd bed down with the meanest snake she could find, then when things went bad she'd go runnin' to Mud. Mud would take her back, then go find whatever unlucky sonofabitch last put a hand on her and beat `em `til they knew to never touch her again. And this time I guess he thought a beating wasn't good enough. Had to shoot that fella. I don't know for sure, but I'd put money on Juniper knowin' he'd do it. And I have a suspicion she might of even told him to. Either way, those two are set for failure. Only chance Mud has is to cut her loose. Cause I'll tell you what, Mud's no bad ass. He's runnin' scared. Ellis can't look Tom in the eye, he's offended by the old man's remarks. Ellis sets the coffee cup on the desk. 
ELLIS I gotta go. Ellis heads for the door, but stops short. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) You're wrong about Juniper. They love each other and they're gonna make it. If you weren't a wore out old man you'd know it was true. Tom eyes the boy, taking a sip from his cup. He nods a goodbye to Ellis who is already out the door. 
78 EXT. ISLAND/BASE OF BOAT TREE - DAY 78 
Ellis stomps out of the trees and is struck by the new position of the boat. It hangs three feet off the ground; SUSPENDED in dry dock. A clear-cut path of trees leads off toward the island's southern shore. Beside the boat, remnants of a giant fire smolder. Ellis surveys the MOUND OF ASH. 
MUD (O.S.) What you say Ellis? Ellis turns to find Mud standing on the deck of the boat holding a fistful of wires. He jumps down. 
ELLIS I got more stuff. 
MUD You find a motor? 
ELLIS Not yet. (points to the ash) What's that? 
MUD I made a bonfire. Mud enters the woods. Ellis follows. 
ELLIS Why? 
MUD Bonfire's an all purpose cure all for bad luck. I don't know where this boat's been or what kind of person had it before me. For all I know it could have some serious bad business left on it. We got too much ridin' on this thing to leave to chance. Where's Neckbone? 
ELLIS Helpin' his uncle with a dive. 
79 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - MOMENTS LATER 79 
Mud and Ellis exit the treeline heading to Ellis' boat. 
ELLIS Tom called me over to his place this mornin'. 
MUD What he say? 
ELLIS He was runnin' down Juniper. Ellis looks for a response, but Mud just jumps up into the boat and starts throwing pieces of wood on shore. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) I told him he was a wore out old man. Told him he couldn't know how much you loved Juniper. 
MUD You don't know his story. 
ELLIS I don't care. 
MUD You should. Tom loved a woman more than most men could in two lifetimes. They had a good life started together. Mud hops down and scoops a load of wood into his arms. 
MUD (CONT'D) She was pregnant with a little boy, but the birth got the better of `em. They didn't make it. Tom's been alone ever since. Lone wolf. Mud has begun walking back to the treeline. Ellis stays. 
ELLIS I gotta go help my dad. Mud turns back but doesn't stop moving. 
MUD Thanks for the wood Ellis. Ellis watches him go, thinking on what he said. 
80 EXT. UNDERWATER - RIVER - DAY 80 
Fully suited in diving gear, Galen toils in the murky brown water at the bottom of the river. His gear consists of a typical wet-suit, wet-socks but no gloves. His metal helmet is not typical. It's welded from half a hot water heater that's been fitted with barbell weights. A hose connected to the top runs to the surface. Galen ties off a netted sack and yanks on its line. 
81 EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS 81 
A small air compressor chugs as Neckbone stands in the middle of Galen's boat pulling in the heavy rope. At the end, the net bulging with mussel shells appears. He manages to roll the heavy load into the boat before moving over to a crank handle that feeds another line. After several cranks, Galen's steel helmet breaches the surface. He places his hands on the edge of the boat as Neckbone removes the barbell weights. The weight removed, Neckbone takes off the helmet. Galen pulls himself into the boat, out of breath. 
GALEN This shit never gets easy. 
NECKBONE That's a good haul. 
GALEN I've had worse. Galen reclines as Neckbone kills the air compressor and begins organizing the gear. He watches his little nephew. 
GALEN (CONT'D) You doin' all right? 
NECKBONE Yeah. 
GALEN You don't need to tell me anything? 
JUNIPER Wait. Just wait. I don't know about alla this. I don't even know what he thinks we're gonna do. Where are we even gonna go? This is Mud. This is what Mud does. Ellis hears her crying through the phone. 
ELLIS It's okay. He's got the boat. We helped him fix it up. It's a good plan. Just be ready. 
JUNIPER Why are you even doing this? 
ELLIS What do you mean? 
JUNIPER Why are you helping us? 
ELLIS Cause ya'll love each other. Juniper searches for a comment. Ellis, looking out over the parking lot, sees May Pearl getting out of a car with her MOTHER and SISTER. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) I'll see you tomorrow. 
JUNIPER Wait. Dial Tone. Juniper holds the phone, worried. 
89 EXT. PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 89 
Ellis turns and watches May Pearl push a cart in the parking lot with her family. Neckbone bangs at the Coke machine. 
NECKBONE How'd it go? 
ELLIS We're good. 
90 I/E. CARVER'S LINCOLN/PIGGLY WIGGLY PARKING LOT - DAY 90 Carver sits behind the wheel of his Lincoln. The man with the mustache, James, sits in the passenger seat next to him. Carver notices Ellis and Neckbone standing in front of the Piggly Wiggly. He climbs out. 
AT THE VENDING MACHINES, 
NECKBONE Gimme a quarter. This shit took mine. Ellis watches May Pearl entering the grocery store. He calls out with a wave. 
ELLIS 
MAY PEARL! Without stopping, May Pearl, along with her Sister and Mother, all turn. May Pearl sees him, but doesn't wave back. She continues inside. Ellis looks confused, then embarrassed. Neckbone notices. 
NECKBONE It's all right man. She's with her family. Come on. I wanna get that motor before dark. They head to the dirt bike. 
CARVER (O.S.) Hey there! Ellis turns to see Carver approaching. 
CARVER (CONT'D) You remember me don't you? Ellis nods. Carver notes the healing bruise on Ellis' face. 
CARVER (CONT'D) I'm sure sorry about that. Ya'll caught me at a real bad time. 
Ellis climbs on the bike. Carver walks over to them. 
CARVER (CONT'D) Hold on now. One second. I don't want ya'll thinkin' I'm a bad guy. Ya'll were just trying to do a job, and I got in your way. Carver removes a roll of twenties and peels off two. 
CARVER (CONT'D) Let's just say I bought that whole batch of fish ya'll were sellin'. Would forty cover it? 
NECKBONE That'd bout do it. 
ELLIS We don't want your money. Carver steps in close to the boys. 
CARVER I bet ya'll really get around this town. Probably know every hole and ditch. Have ya'll come across the man whose picture I showed you? 
ELLIS No. Carver removes a flier with Mud's picture and holds it out. 
CARVER You sure about that? Take a look with your good eye. 
ELLIS I'm sure. 
CARVER What about that girl in the motel? The pretty one. Ya'll talk to her some more? 
ELLIS No. Carver smiles. He tucks the flier and the forty dollars into Ellis' hand. 
CARVER There's a number on there. Ya'll let me know if you do. 
Neckbone cranks the engine and backs the bike up with his feet. They pull away. Moving, Ellis looks back to see Carver watching them. 
91 EXT. CRAWFORD'S JUNKYARD - DUSK 91 
Neckbone pulls back a loose section of chain-link fence surrounding the marine junkyard. Ellis crouches through. 
INSIDE THE JUNKYARD, Ellis and Neckbone creep through piles of starboard and boat parts. They stop at a party barge with only one pontoon. At its rear hangs a big rusted motor, 200 horsepower. Neckbone quickly disassembles its attachment. The motor pops loose leaving the boys to strain against its heavy weight. They ease it to the ground. 
BARTENDER (CONT'D) 
I SAID GET OUTTA HERE!!! Neckbone gathers his friend and leads him away. 
NECKBONE Thanks a lot asshole! 
(TO ELLIS) Come on man. They head over to Neckbone's dirt bike. He pulls out the key and climbs on. Ellis hesitates. 
NECKBONE (CONT'D) I'll take you home. 
ELLIS We're gonna have to tell Mud. Neckbone drops his head, nods reluctantly. 
100 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - NIGHT 100 
The boys struggle to pull the heavy motor out of their boat. It hits the shoreline with a thud. They lean over it, sucking air. 
ELLIS Just leave it. Mud'll have to help get it. 
NECKBONE What're you gonna tell him? 
ELLIS I'll just tell him the truth. 
101 EXT. ISLAND/SOUTHERN SHORE - NIGHT 101 
Mud stands at the back of the boat, which now rests on the boat trailer near the water. His face is clean shaven and his hair is wetted back. His shirt, still filthy, is tucked into his pants. He whistles and works by the light of a small fire nearby. Ellis steps out from behind a tree. He's holding the grocery sack that was left on his houseboat. 
ELLIS 
MUD! Mud, hearing the voice, quickly puts down his tools and turns to the woods. He smooths his clothes down. 
MUD What you say there?! Ellis appears out of the dark, followed by Neckbone. Mud's eyes search the treeline for Juniper. 
MUD (CONT'D) What you say Ellis? Ellis can't look him in the eye. 
ELLIS We got that motor. 
MUD Is Juniper okay? 
ELLIS Yeah. 
MUD Where is she? 
ELLIS She didn't meet up with us. 
MUD What happened? Was it Carver? 
ELLIS It wasn't Carver. Mud straightens up, prepares for the news. 
MUD What's goin' on Ellis? 
ELLIS She was supposed to meet us on the side of the motel. She never showed up. We went asking for her. The motel clerk told us she went to a bar out on 61. 
MUD What? 
ELLIS We tracked her down. She was there with another guy. 
(HESITATES) They were together. Mud's face drops. He walks to the fire and shakes a cooking pot resting in the coals. The pot bubbles with roof tar. 
MUD She probably thought Carver was on to her. 
ELLIS She knew the plan Mud. She just didn't show up. 
MUD What was she doin' with the other guy? Ellis hesitates, not wanting to say. Mud pushes. 
MUD (CONT'D) What were they doin' Ellis? 
ELLIS They were playin' pool. Drinkin'. He was close up on her. They were laughin'. He kissed her on the neck. Mud nods. 
MUD And that's how it is. He takes the pot of roofing tar over to the boat and begins pasting some of the newly replaced boards with a flat stick. 
ELLIS What do you want us to do? 
MUD Just go home Ellis. Ellis looks at Neckbone, then sets the grocery sack on the ground. 
MARY LEE (CONT'D) Ellis. You'll return that motor from where you found it and you'll apologize in person to the man you took it from. I won't hear about anything like this again. Mary Lee walks to the front door. She collects her purse and keys and exits quietly. Senior and Ellis stand in silence, which feels even more uncomfortable than the shouting. Ellis finally speaks. 
ELLIS I can't take that motor back. But I'll pay him for it. I'll pay him what he wants for it. Senior, stoic, pivots his body away from the boy. 
SENIOR I don't care what you do Ellis. Senior retreats to the bedroom. Ellis is left alone in the wake. He looks to his room. The door opens slightly and Neckbone takes a step out. Neckbone doesn't say anything. He just bites at his lip, sympathy for his friend. 
105 EXT. ISLAND SHORE LANDING - DAY 105 
Charred hunks of driftwood smolder in a ruined pile on the sand. They constitute the remains of a large bonfire. Neckbone and Ellis stare at the ash. 
NECKBONE What the hell's all this? 
ELLIS It's a bonfire. 
NECKBONE I guess he didn't care about bein' seen. Ellis kicks at one of the burned logs. He bends down and finds the bottle of Jack Daniels, smashed. 
ELLIS He had something else on his mind. Come on. Ellis leads Neckbone into the treeline. 
106 EXT. ISLAND WOODS/CREEK - DAY 106 
Mud's yellow shirt hangs, partially ripped, from a tree branch. Ellis pulls it off the limb. Concerned, they head deeper into the woods, over the fallen tree trunk that bridges the creek. 
107 EXT. ISLAND WOODS AND SOUTHERN SHORE - DAY 107 
The boys watch Mud through the trees at a distance. He's crouched on the deck of the boat fiddling with wiring. Mud, giving no sign he sees the boys, yells out to them. 
MUD What are ya'll hidin' for? Mud drops the wiring and scales down to the bank. They emerge from the woods. Ellis carries the yellow shirt. 
ELLIS We found your shirt. Ellis tosses it to him. Mud tosses it back. 
MUD Keep it. I don't need it anymore. Mud goes to the motor at the rear to tinker with more wires. 
ELLIS We saw what's left of your bonfire. 
(NO RESPONSE) Somebody could've seen you. 
MUD I guess. 
ELLIS You do some drinkin' last night? 
MUD I did a lot of drinkin' last night. Mud stops and walks over to address the boys. His face is pale and his manner is curt. 
MUD (CONT'D) Neck I'm gonna need you here to get the motor runnin'. Ellis I need you to do something else for me. Mud removes a folded note from his back pocket. 
MUD (CONT'D) I need you to take this to Juniper. 
ELLIS Okay Mud. Ellis takes the letter. Mud goes back to the boat motor. He motions to Neckbone to join him. 
MUD Let's go. 
ELLIS You still takin' Juniper? 
MUD I had a dream last night. I saw Juniper laying in a field with another man. They were making love. I walked out into the field. Walked toward `em. I was so angry the tips of my ears were burnin'. That's how I knew I was gonna kill this man. But when I got up close enough, I saw that the man she was with had tattoos on his back, just like mine. I moved in closer and the guy turns his head back toward me. Hair for hair, dead truth, the guy she was with was me. Mud ducks back under the motor. Ellis looks at Neckbone, worried. 
MUD (CONT'D) I'll finish the boat, but I'd be surprised if I live long enough to sail on it. A vision of yourself is a sure sign of death. Neck can you grab me a socket wrench? Neckbone and Ellis walk to the toolbox sitting nearby. They crouch by it, speaking quietly. 
NECKBONE You be all right? 
ELLIS Yeah. What about you? 
NECKBONE He'll be okay. 
ELLIS Can I borrow your bike? Neckbone fishes the key out of his pocket. Hesitates. 
NECKBONE Don't tump it. Ellis nods. Neckbone walks over to Mud with the toolbox. Letter in hand, Ellis gives a final look toward Mud's labor and walks back into the woods. On his way, he stops to hang Mud's shirt on a tree branch. 
108 EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - DAY 108 
Ellis rides in the flat bottom boat alone. He stares at the letter in his hand. 
109 EXT. PIGGLY WIGGLY - DAY 109 
Ellis sits on the dirt bike. He scans the parking lot. No black Lincoln. His eyes stop on a green pick-up. Miller, sits inside. Ellis looks around and finds a pay phone nearby. He gets off the bike and walks toward it. Ellis removes the flier Carver gave him. He dials a phone number copied at the bottom. 
KYLE Get your head outta my car kid. Ellis takes his right elbow and quickly knocks Kyle in the mouth. It splits his upper lip. Kyle grabs his face. 
KYLE (CONT'D) Shit! 
MAY PEARL Ellis! 
ELLIS I called you twice yesterday. Your sister didn't tell you? Kyle slings the door open knocking Ellis to the pavement. From the ground, Ellis can see that Kyle is big and considerably tougher than the skinny kid he punched before. Kyle's friends from other cars take notice and begin to converge on them. Ellis makes a move for Kyle's legs but is kicked back to the pavement. Kyle straddles him on the ground and punches him. Another punch to Ellis' face. May Pearl is out of the car and yelling. 
MAY PEARL Kyle! Stop it Kyle! 
May Pearl pulls Kyle by the collar. By his own will, he raises off of Ellis, keeping an eye on him. A streak of blood stretches from Ellis' nose to his ear. He gets to his feet, dazed. Ellis wipes at his nose and sees May Pearl shove Kyle. Kyle smiles and turns to his friends, who laugh. The CROWD that has collected consists of older high school guys and girls. Ellis steps toward May Pearl and is met with a shove too. 
MAY PEARL (CONT'D) What the hell are you doin' here Ellis?! 
ELLIS What? 
MAY PEARL You can't just run up and punch people I'm with! 
ELLIS I'm sorry, I just wanted to know why you hadn't called me back. 
I... 
MAY PEARL Why would I call you back Ellis? 
ELLIS Because you're my girlfriend. The crowd is watching. 
MAY PEARL I'm not your girlfriend! We went on one date. One! 
ELLIS We kissed. 
MAY PEARL That doesn't matter! 
ELLIS Yeah but... 
MAY PEARL But what Ellis?! What did you expect?! 
ELLIS I love you. 
MAY PEARL You're fourteen! 
ELLIS Don't. Wait. We can make this work. We can figure it out. I love you. 
MAY PEARL What? Ellis is losing it. His eyes are red. He looks at the crowd of kids. There are smiles and some snickering. May Pearl is speechless. She just stares at him. Ellis turns and walks back to the dirt bike. May Pearl's girlfriends gather around her. She shakes her head, dumbstruck. Ellis lifts the bike off the ground. He looks back at May Pearl who appears to be shrugging off the whole affair in front of her friends. Ellis speeds off. 
114 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT/RIVERBANK - DAY 114 
A fire snaps and pops on the riverbank next to Ellis' houseboat. Ellis drags a piece of particle board from a trash pile nearby. He drops the board onto the fire and stands back to watch the blaze. Neckbone's bike leans on a tree behind him. Senior's truck rattles to a stop in the gravel just down the bank. He jumps out of the cab exasperated by the fire his son has started by their home. 
SENIOR What the hell are you doin'?! Ellis says nothing. He doesn't move. Senior, continuing to yell, runs and drags a hose up from the houseboat. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) Ellis dammit! What the hell's wrong with you?! The fire hisses as Senior turns the hose on it. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) Ellis? Look at me. Ellis finally looks up at his father. A phone RINGS from inside the houseboat. Senior holds the hose in front of him. 
SENIOR (CONT'D) Take it. Put this damn thing out. 
Ellis takes the hose as Senior stomps on board to catch the phone. Ellis drops the hose. Senior's voice, speaking into the telephone, faintly carries outside. He's yelling. Ellis turns his head to listen. 
SENIOR (O.S.) (CONT'D) I don't give a shit! Fine! I don't care what you do! I'm done with it! Ellis moves around the fire so he can see the houseboat through the flames. He hears the phone SLAM down. Senior appears at the back door. He stares at Ellis through the fire. Ellis moves to the side but realizes Senior isn't staring at him. He's staring at the fire. Senior disappears back into the house. There is a commotion. Ellis watches as Senior bursts out of the house holding an armful of woman's clothes. Senior walks up to the bonfire and begins tossing clothes on top piece by piece. 
ELLIS What are you doing? Ellis watches as dresses and blouses begin to shrivel up in the flames. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) Stop it! That's mom's stuff! STOP 
IT! Ellis shoves at Senior. He easily counters the boy with his arm and continues tossing the clothes into the fire. Ellis is screaming and crying. 
ELLIS (CONT'D) 
STOP IT! STOP! Ellis tries yanking the remaining clothes out of his father's hands but Senior shakes him off. Ellis stumbles. He watches with tears as Senior tosses all of the clothes on. Senior watches his wife's clothes burn. Ellis backs away to the bike. He climbs on, cranks the engine and speeds off. 
115 EXT. ISLAND SHORE - DAY 115 
Ellis grounds the flat-bottom on shore and jumps out. 
MUD Shit. He rips the jeans up to the thigh. Mud tears a section of cloth from the bottom of his own shirt and creates a tourniquet just below Ellis' knee. 
MUD (CONT'D) What time is it? Mud pulls a black Sharpie out of his pocket. Neckbone doesn't answer, just stares. 
MUD (CONT'D) 
WHAT TIME IS IT?! 
Neckbone checks his watch. 
NECKBONE It's four eighteen! Mud draws a line on Ellis' leg just above the swollen bite. He writes, "418". 
MUD Yell out every 10 minutes! Mud elevates Ellis' leg then gently cups his head. He dabs the gash on Ellis' forehead. 
NECKBONE Is he gonna be okay?! 
MUD We just need to get him to a clinic! Is there still one in town?! 
NECKBONE Yeah! 
MUD It's the closest?! 
NECKBONE Yeah! 
MUD I'm gonna need your bike! 
NECKBONE Are you bit?! Mud shakes his head. 
MUD No. He holds Ellis as they move steadily up river. 
122 EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY 122 
The flat bottom boat approaches the riverbank. Neckbone points to the sandy ridge and yells up to Mud. 
NECKBONE My bike should be just over that ridge! Mud looks at Ellis' leg. The swelling has crept up his thigh. Black lines with numbers mark its progress: "428, 438, 448". Ellis' face has taken on a blue tint. 
The boat hasn't reached the shore, but Mud takes Ellis in his arms and jumps into the water. He wades onto the bank. 
123 AT THE BIKE, 123 Mud straddles it, turning Ellis' body so they are face to face. He cranks the bike and speeds away. Neckbone makes it to the top of the ridge in time to see Mud disappear into the trees. 
124 EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY - DAY 124 
Mud speeds the dirt bike down the two-lane highway. He's far too big for the bike and it's even trickier balancing Ellis. Coming up on a slow moving pick-up overloaded with junk, Mud veers into the opposing lane. 
ONCOMING TRAFFIC. Mud darts back to his lane in time to miss a semi. 
125 EXT. CLINIC - DAY 125 
A MALE NURSE(36) wheels an ELDERLY MAN through the sliding double front doors of a small clinic. Mud appears around the corner. The bike speeding toward the entrance. In a fluid motion, Mud takes Ellis in his arms and lifts his leg over the bike. The bike tilts and slides across the pavement, smacking solidly into the curb. Mud has managed to stay on his feet with the boy in his arms and rushes through the automatic front doors. 
126 INT. CLINIC - CONTINUOUS 126 
The reception area has a DOZEN PATIENTS sitting in it. A check-in desk to the left. Mud holds Ellis out in his arms. 
MUD 
I NEED HELP HERE! A FEMALE NURSE rushes out of the check-in area. 
FEMALE NURSE Just stay calm. What's going on? 
MUD He's been snake bit. ANOTHER NURSE rushes off calling for a doctor. The room becomes more frenzied. Patients talking. Nurses shouting. 
MUD (CONT'D) He's snake bit. A cotton mouth. On his calf. Just under an hour. As quickly as Mud gets this out, a GROUP of NURSES rush out of a door at the end of the room pushing a gurney. They take Ellis from Mud's arm, place him on the gurney, and speed him into the back of the clinic. The commotion gone, the reception area feels oddly still. Mud takes a deep breath. He looks to his right. Patients stare at him. He's beyond disheveled. He's crazy looking. Mud turns to his left. The Male Nurse stares at him. For the first time, Mud realizes he's out in the open. 
MALE NURSE Sir? Mud slowly backs up. 
MALE NURSE (CONT'D) Sir? We're gonna need some information? Mud backs out of the automatic doors. The entire room stares at him. 
127 EXT. CLINIC - CONTINUOUS 127 
Mud is outside. The glass doors close. He nervously checks over his shoulders. He spots a bank of trees just down from the clinic. He heads for them. The front doors slide open and the Male Nurse walks out. 
MALE NURSE Sir?! Mud hops into the bank of trees and disappears. 
NECKBONE It ain't sunk yet. Mud smiles. He holds out his hand, which Neckbone slaps. 
NECKBONE (CONT'D) I wish Ellis could see it. 
MUD I know. Mud walks back on shore and collects his duffel bag. 
MUD (CONT'D) I owe you your end of the deal. Mud removes the pistol from the back of his jeans. Neckbone's eyes light up. Mud hands it over and Neckbone immediately notices a hole where the clip is missing. 
NECKBONE Where the bullets? 
MUD The deal was for the gun, not the bullets. 
NECKBONE Shit. Neckbone begrudgingly crams the pistol into the back of his pants. 
MUD I got one last favor to ask you. Neckbone sucks his teeth. 
134 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - NIGHT 134 
Water gently laps at the side of Ellis' houseboat. The bayou is quiet. From the darkness, Neckbone and Mud appear in the flat-bottom boat. They paddle with their hands. Approaching in silence. 
135 INT. ELLIS' ROOM - NIGHT 135 
Ellis stares at the ceiling, unable to sleep. A TAP comes from the window. Ellis sits up in bed. Mud pokes his head in. He whispers. 
MUD Ellis? 
ELLIS Mud? 
MUD Yeah. Mud pulls his body through the window. It's tight but he manages to make it look somewhat graceful. Mud takes a quick survey of the dark room. Ellis begins to get out of bed. 
MUD (CONT'D) No, don't get up. Mud motions him back down and pulls the chair from the desk over to the bed. They speak in hushed voices. 
ELLIS How'd you get here? 
MUD Neck brought me. 
136 EXT. ELLIS' HOUSEBOAT - CONTINUOUS 136 
Neckbone sits in the flat-bottom tied off at the corner. 
FROM THE TREELINE ON SHORE, All EIGHT of the Bounty Hunters sit hunkered in the trees. Carver squats next to a stump. He loads shotgun shells into a 12 gauge pump and motions for the others to fan out along the bank. 
137 INT. ELLIS' ROOM - CONTINUOUS 137 
MUD We got the boat in the water. 
ELLIS You did? 
MUD Just now. Smooth sailin' from here on out. 
ELLIS Good. 
MUD Wish you coulda seen it. 
ELLIS Me too. 
MUD Didn't feel right leavin' town without sayin' goodbye. There is an awkward moment. 
ELLIS I'm sorry `bout what I said. 
MUD No. No. You were right to be mad. You were right about a lot of things. I'm the one that's sorry. I shoulda never gotten ya'll into all this. I just didn't see any other way around it. But I couldn't leave without you knowin' I never lied about being your friend. I never lied about that. 
ELLIS I know. 
MUD I don't traffic in the truth too often. But I did love her. I do love her. 
ELLIS She loves you too. She said it. This fact still strikes Mud. He nods. 
MUD I just made mistakes. We both did. This is a hard life to keep up with. You can't blame her for gettin' tired of tryin'. 
ELLIS My dad says you can't count on women lovin' you. He says you can't trust it. 
MUD That's not true. Don't judge your life on all of our mistakes. You'll make plenty mistakes of your own, no need takin' on everybody else's. You're a good man Ellis. If you find a girl half as good, you'll be all right. 
