Mulholland Drive Screenplay 
M  U  L  H  O  L  L  A  N  D 
D  R  I  V  E 
M U L H 0 L L A N D             D R I V E 
EXT.  NIGHT - HOLLYWOOD HILLS, LOS ANGELES 
Darkness. Distant sounds of freeway traffic. Then the closer sound of a car - its headlights illumine an oleander bush and the limbs of an Eucalyptus tree. Then the headlights turn - a street sign is suddenly brightly lit. The words on the sign read... "Mulholland Drive." The car moves under the sign as it turns and the words fall once again into darkness. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. NIGHT - MULHOLLAND DRIVE 
Gliding we follow the car - an older black Cadillac limousine - as it winds its way up Mulholland Drive through the darkness of the Hollywood Hills. There is no one else on the road. As we drift closer to the car... 
CUT TO: 
INT. BLACK CADILLAC LIMOUSINE - NIGHT 
Two men in dark suits are sitting in the front seat. A beautiful, younger, dark-haired woman sits in back. She sits close up against the door and stares out into the darkness. She seems to be thinking about something. Suddenly she turns and looks ahead. The car is slowing and moving off to the side of the road. 
DARK-HAIRED WOMAN What are you doing? You don't stop here ... 
The car stops - half on, half off the road at a dark, blind curve. Both men turn to the woman. 
DRIVER Get out of the car. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  FURTHER UP MULHOLLAND DRIVE - NIGHT 
Two cars - a convertible and a late model sedan are drag racing toward the blind curve blocking the view of the Cadillac limousine. The cars are filled with crazed teenagers. Two girls are standing up through the sunroof of the sedan screaming as their hair is whipped straight back. 
The cars are travelling so fast that they seem to almost float as they fly with psychotic speed down both lanes of Mulholland Drive. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EXT. - CADILLAC LIMOUSINE 
The driver, still in his seat, has a pistol with a silencer attached pointing at the woman. The other man is getting out of the car. The woman is clutching the seat and the door handle as if trying to anchor herself. She is visibly afraid. The man who got out of the car tries the woman's door, but it is locked. He smiles as he reaches in through the front door and unlocks her door. He opens her door. As he reaches for her, the woman's face becomes flooded with light. Her eyes dart to the front windshield. The driver, flooded with light, turns just as the late model sedan slams into the Cadillac limousine. There is an explosion of metal and glass amidst thunderous tearing sounds as the two cars become one in death. The convertible screams past with hardly a notice. The driver of the limousine dies instantly as his body is jettisoned through the windshield. The other man is torn as the cars screech over him. The woman is brutally thrown into the back of the front seats as a cloud of dust and flying rocks engulfs her. The disastrous moving sculpture of the two cars wants to climb up the hill, then stops and slides back toward the road The Cadillac tips onto its side. Then all is silent. A fire erupts in the sedan and as the dust clears we see the woman appear, then crawl out of the Cadillac to the road. Her face is vacant. There is a bleeding cut just above her forehead. She stands for a moment clutching her purse - lost , then begins to walk as if in a trance across Mulholland down through the bushes and into darkness. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - LATER - NIGHT 
The woman slides down a hill through tangles of hostile desert plants. Sirens can be heard in the distance. She crosses through some trees and is suddenly confronted by a coyote which snarls and leaps at her. She screams and strikes out with her purse in self defense. The coyote backs away - snarling. The woman then loses control and runs at the coyote and it races off. She falls to the ground. We can hear the thunder of her heartbeat as the sirens grow louder. She gets up and stumbles through the trees. When she clears them she is standing overlooking all of Los Angeles glowing down below. She clumsily starts down toward it. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
HOLLYWOOD STREETS - LATER - NIGHT 
The woman slides down a dusty hill and finds herself at Franklin Avenue. A car races by and its headlights flare on her face. Her expression shows fear and panic. She doesn't know where she is or where to go. She runs frantically across the street. She moves quickly to a sidewalk which takes her into a residential area. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. HOLLYWOOD STREETS - LATER - NIGHT 
The woman crosses Sunset Boulevard. Coming up Sunset in the distance is a police car with its sirens and lights going. She hurries into the darkness of another residential area. A car turns onto the street and comes toward her. She instinctively moves behind a tree until it passes. 
DAN This Denny's. 
HERB Okay. Why this Denny's? 
DAN It's kind of embarrassing but, 
HERB Go ahead. 
DAN I had a dream about this place. 
HERB Oh boy. 
DAN You see what I mean... 
HERB Okay, so you had a dream about this place. Tell me. 
DAN Well ... it's the second one I've had, but they were both the same......they start out that I'm in here but it's not day or night. It's kinda half night, but it looks just like this except for the light, but I'm scared like I can't tell ya. Of all people you're standing right over there by that counter. You're in both dreams and you're scared. I get even more frightened when I see how afraid you are and then I realize what it is - there's a man...in back of this place. He's the one ... he's the one that's doing it. I can see him through the wall. I can see his face and I hope I never see that face ever outside a dream. 
Herb stares at Dan to see if he will continue. Dan looks around nervously, then stares at his uneaten food. 
DAN (cont'd) That's it. 
HERB So, you came to see if he's out there? 
DAN To get rid of this god-awful feeling. 
HERB Right then. 
Herb gets up, picks up the bill and goes to the cashier to pay. Dan just sits. 
As Herb is paying the bill he looks over at Dan just as Dan is turning to look at him. From Dan's point of view Herb is standing in exactly the same spot as he stood in the dream. Herb gets a strange feeling, turns back and finishes up with the cashier. He motions for Dan to follow him. Dan rises reluctantly and he and Herb make their way outside. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DENNY'S 
Now Herb waits for Dan to lead the way. 
DAN Around here. 
Dan takes Herb across the front of Denny's to a narrow sidewalk that leads down the side toward the back. 
They begin walking down the narrow sidewalk - past a payphone. Dan begins to sweat the nearer he gets to the rear corner of the building. Red bricks glide by slowly. 
CLOSER ON DAN 
Beads of sweat cover his face. He finds it difficult to breathe. Herb is just behind him unable to see the fear overtaking his friend, but Herb can feel something himself. 
The red bricks moving by now are coming to an end - the corner is coming closer - the corner is now very close. 
Suddenly a man - a face ... a face dark and bum-like- moves quickly out from behind the corner and stops - freezes - staring into Dan's eyes. 
Dan lurches back. All his breath is suddenly gone. He falls back into Herb who tries to catch him as he's falling. Dan hits the ground unable to breathe - his eyes wide with horror. 
Herb looks up - the man is gone. He looks down to Dan. 
HERB Dan! ... Dan! You all right? ... Dan! 
He kneels down and studies his friend. He feels for a pulse in the neck. He listens for breathing. His friend is dead. 
HERB (cont'd) My God! 
BETTY Okay, Coco. 
Coco returns with the key and opens the screen door inhaling a huge drag off her cigarette. She starts off into the courtyard and Betty picks up her bags and follows. As Coco speaks smoke comes out of her with every word. 
COCO I guess it was your grandfather, was it ... he called me to check in, said you were on your way and for you to call when you get in. Nice man... farmer I hear. 
BETTY Yes, he is. He raises corn. 
COCO Damn lot of corn raised in Hollywood these days too. 
BETTY Well, I ... 
COCO You don't have to tell me. It's written all over that pretty face of yours.. You came here to be an actress. I just hope you'll remember there's never been a great poem called "tits and ass." 
BETTY I... 
COCO You probably don't remember her, but Louise Bonner lives right over there in number 29. When she isn't drunk she runs a damn good acting class. 
BETTY Have many famous actors and actresses lived here? I was meaning to ask you that. 
COCO Honey, all the great ones came through here at one time or another. 
A haunting music begins to swell. 
COCO (cont'd) 
People say in the springtime when the wind blows the smell of the jasmine you can still feel the presence of everyone of them. 
BETTY I guess I've come to quite a place. 
COCO Sweetheart, you don't know the half of it. 
The music fades. 
Coco looks down suddenly. On the cobblestone courtyard in front of her she sees a fresh product of waste from a dog. She angrily turns up to an apartment on the second level. 
COCO (cont'd) (yelling up) WILKINS! ... (no answer) ... THAT DOG CRAPS ONCE MORE OUT HERE AND I'LL BAKE HIS BUTT FOR BREAKFAST!! 
Coco turns back to Betty. 
COCO (cont'd) You don't have pets do you? 
BETTY No, I don't. 
COCO That's good. They're allowed, but I don't like 'em...for obvious reasons. One man used to live here that had a prize fighting kangaroo. You wouldn't believe what that kangaroo did to this courtyard ... let's see your Aunt's apartment ... it's a good one. 
BETTY I can hardly wait, Coco. 
CUT TO: 
INT. APARTMENT - BEDROOM 
The dirty and torn black cocktail dress of the dark-haired woman along with her shoes, purse and undergarments are in a pile in the bedroom. We drift off them toward the bathroom where the dark-haired woman can be seen showering through rippled glass. There's the sound of a door opening. We see a movement through the glass and the shower goes off instantly. We can hear the dark-haired woman's frightened breathing as she waits frozen listening. 
CUT TO: 
INT. APARTMENT  LIVING ROOM 
Betty enters, thrilled with what she sees. The apartment is filled with movie memorabilia, deco furniture, oriental rugs, brass floor lamps and a massive tiled fireplace. She sets her bags down and stares. 
BETTY It's unbelievable! 
The bathroom door opens and the dark-haired woman comes out wrapped in a towel. She's drying her hair with another. She and Betty stare at one another. 
DARK-HAIRED WOMAN My name is Rita. 
BETTY Hi...do you work with my Aunt? 
RITA No ..........I. 
BETTY I...I mean......I...it's none of my business. 
RITA She has pretty red hair... she is very kind I think. 
BETTY She sure is. She's letting me stay here while she's working on a movie that's being made in Canada, but I guess you know that.  I couldn't afford a place like this in a million years. Unless of course I'm discovered and become a movie star. Of course, I'd rather be known as a great actress than a movie star, but sometimes people end up being both and that is, I guess you'd say, sort of why I came here. I'm sorry, I'm just so excited to be here..I mean I just came here from Iowa and now I'm in this dream place. You can imagine how I feel. 
RITA I think I've been hurt. 
BETTY Oh... 
Betty goes to Rita. 
BETTY (cont'd) Sit down... 
Betty sits Rita on the bed. She leans down and looks at her head and face. 
BETTY (cont'd) Where were you hurt? 
Rita motions to her head above her forehead. Betty looks through her hair and finds her wound which has stopped bleeding but is surrounded by a very large blue black bruising. 
BETTY (cont'd) We should get a doctor. 
RITA No. 
BETTY But, this could be serious. 
RITA No...I need to sleep. 
BETTY If you have a concussion you shouldn't sleep. 
RITA It will be okay if I sleep. I need to lie down and sleep. 
BETTY All right, but...I'm going to check on you. 
Rita lies down and is instantly asleep. Betty leans over her and listens to her breathing. She gets a blanket and drapes it over the beautiful sleeping Rita, then leaves the room. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. - DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES - LOW RENT OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 
The street level of the office building is filthy and houses stores selling racks of cheap toys. Up above we see office windows and a big sign saying "Office Space For Rent" along with a telephone number to call. We drift in toward one of the windows on the sixth floor. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OFFICE ON SIXTH FLOOR 
Two men are in the room, JOE and ED. Joe leans up against a rack of filing cabinets. He is in his late twenties. He looks like a run down, heavy metal rocker - wears a blue denim shirt open, T-shirt underneath, black denim jeans and motorcycle boots. His black belt has silver studs. He's smoking a cigarette and is laughing at something the man at the desk has said. His laugh is easy and his grin is infectious. 
The man at the desk, Ed, wears a clean, crisp black suit, like a business man's but unlike a business man his blonde hair is long enough to go over his shoulders. 
JOE So man, that's unheard of ... an accident like that ... who coulda foreseen that. 
ED Unreal ... so, you're looking good. Whatcha doin' these days? 
MR. DARBY (cont'd) Okay, let's try the next one. 
The man nods and leaves. 
RAY He isn't gonna like it. 
MR. DARBY We'll see. 
ADAM Hello ... who're we talkin' about here? 
Robert Smith shuffles nervously in his chair next to Adam. 
ROBERT SMITH You see Adam... there are some suggestions which are to be brought forward ... and I know you said you would entertain suggestions and that's all anybody here is asking you to do. 
ADAM What're you talking about? 
ROBERT SMITH An open mind ... You're in the process of re-casting your lead actress and I'm... (looks around) We're asking you to keep an open mind. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CENTURY CITY - DAY 
Before us is a huge modern office building of glass and steel. Two men in dark suits have exited a large limousine and are walking up into the building. We drift up the facade, higher and higher moving in toward the top of the building. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 
The men exit an elevator and move through a lobby where a plaque beneath an enormous bronze sculpture reads "Ryan Entertainment". Gliding we travel behind the two men down a wide, carpeted hallway with blonde wood and glass on each side. They enter through two large blonde wooden doors to the conference room. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
The men in dark suits go in as if they owned the place. Ray, Mr. Darby and Robert Smith stand immediately. Adam remains seated. Mr. Darby is the only one near enough to attempt a hand shake, but when he offers his hand it is not taken. The men in dark suits sit down without wasting a movement and without acknowledging anyone. One of the men in a dark suit opens a briefcase. Ray has been trying to make introductions. 
RAY Ah... the Castigliane brothers. Let me introduce you around ... please ... sit down. (after they've already seated themselves) ... this is Mr. Darby whom you know and this is the director Adam Kesher and his manager Robert Smith 
The Castigliane brothers do not acknowledge any of this, however, during the introductions the one with the briefcase removes a photo of a girl and sets it in front of Ray. 
RAY (cont'd) Ah... she's very pretty. 
We see the photo of the girl - of a nice looking blonde - someone we've never seen before. Adam looks like he doesn't know what's going on and he's getting upset about not knowing. His manager, Robert Smith, is beginning to see the makings of a confrontation - he's starting to panic. 
MR. DARBY (referring to Castigliane brothers) May I offer you gentlemen anything? 
LUIGI CASTIGLIANE Espresso. 
VINCENZO CASTIGLIANE Nothing. 
ADAM Uh  what's the photo for? 
MR. DARBY (picking up phone and speaking) One espresso ... no, that's it. (sets phone down - addresses Castigliane brothers) I think you're going to enjoy your espresso this time... I've been doing quite a bit of research knowing how hard you are to please... this one comes highly recommended. 
ADAM What's the photo for? 
RAY (to Adam) A recommendation... a recommendation to you Adam. 
VINCENZO CASTIGLIANE Not a recommendation. 
LUIGI CASTIGLIANE This is the girl. 
VINCENZO CASTIGLIANE It is no longer your film. 
Adam turns white and stands very still as this sinks in. The Castigliane brothers leave. As the big blonde wood doors close behind them Adam starts to boil. 
ADAM (screaming) You'd better fix this, Ray!!! 
RAY I'll speak to someone. 
ADAM (turning to his manager) And you'd better speak to someone too ... or find yourself another client!! This smells like a set-up to me! (back to Ray) And by the way, Ray, I don't know who these guys are kidding, but every foot of film I've shot is in a vault at the lab that only I can access. No one's getting that film!! 
ROBERT SMITH This is a catastrophe... (turning toward Ray) you told me they might insist on a girl, that's all. 
ADAM Why didn't you tell me, Robert? That's what I mean ... you set me up! I woulda never come here. (standing) I'm leaving. I'm a director you don't want to lose ... you guys better fix this!! 
Adam storms out of the room. 
RAY (standing) Well...I didn't know that was going to happen. 
CUT TO: 
EXTERIOR - OFFICE BUILDING - CENTURY CITY - DAY 
Adam exits the building carrying his 7-iron. An attendant takes his valet parking ticket. While Adam, still fuming, waits for his car he notices the big limo standing off to one side. He stares at the car and the huge limo driver leaning up against the front driver's side door. 
Adam's car arrives - a late model Porsche. Before Adam gets into his car he addresses the attendant. 
ADAM Did the Castigliane brothers get out of that limo? 
ATTENDANT They two guys in dark suits? 
Adam nods and walks over to the limo. The limo driver eyes him and his 7-iron suspiciously. 
ADAM Castigliane brothers? 
LIMO DRIVER Beat it! 
ADAM O.K. 
Adam raises his 7-iron and smashes out the limo's windshield. He whacks two big dents in the hood, then smashes out a headlight. The limo driver starts towards him. Adam laughs, runs to his car and takes off. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - LATER DAY 
Betty is stretched out on the big leather couch in the living room. A half eaten sandwich and chips are on a plate on the coffee table next to her. She is talking on the phone. 
BETTY No Grandpa, you wouldn't believe it. It's more beautiful than I ever dreamed ... no she left me a lot of food. The refrigerator's full ... Aunt Ruthie said she'd call me when she got settled... it was real smooth. I sat next to a lady who gave up her first class seat to a boy with a broken leg. She was so nice to me. She invited me to her house sometime. It's in Bel Air which is a place where people have a lot of money... I will. Everybody's telling me to be careful, but I sure love it here Grandpa. Thank you for helping me get here ... yeah, it's long distance. I love you. Say hello to Grams. Give her a big kiss for me. Okay, I love you Grandpa ... bye. 
Betty hangs up the phone, takes a big bite of her sandwich and lays flat out on the couch, chewing and smiling up at the ceiling. She suddenly remembers Rita and her promise to look in on her. She gets off the couch and goes into the bedroom. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
Rita is still asleep when she enters. She leans down and finds Rita breathing normally. She feels her forehead. Satisfied that all is well, Betty quietly leaves the bedroom. 
CUT TO: 
INT. - EXT. APARTMENT - DAY 
Betty rinses her dishes in the kitchen sink and pours herself a cup of coffee. She takes the coffee outside to the courtyard - to a white metal table just outside her doorway. She sits down and stretches in the warm afternoon sun. Across the way she can hear a blues saxophonist practicing in one of the apartments. She drinks her coffee and listens to the music. 
Ray enters and the doors close behind him. Ray takes a few steps forward, then stops. There is a solid glass wall that we now notice running the width of the office. Cut into the glass wall is a small speaker microphone apparatus. Beyond the glass off in the center of the room is a man sitting in a very plain, blonde, wood, modern, yet not motorized, wheelchair. The man is paralyzed except for his right hand and head. His head appears small in relation to the size of his body. His suit is immaculate and one of the finest we've ever seen. His manservant stands in the shadows behind him. 
RAY Good afternoon Mr. Roque. (pronounced Rowk). 
Mr. Roque stares at Ray silently. 
RAY (cont'd) Do you want him replaced? 
Mr. Roque continues to stare. 
RAY I know they said... 
MR. ROQUE Then? 
RAY Then... I guess it's so .... alright, but that means we should ... 
MR. ROQUE Yes? 
RAY Shut everything down ... Is that something that...do you want us to shut everything down? 
Silence. Ray doesn't know what to do. He struggles to interpret Mr. Roque's silence. He waits. Mr. Roque does nothing but stare. 
RAY (cont'd) Then we'll shut everything down. 
Silence. 
Ray turns. The doors open as he approaches them and he leaves the room. The doors close. 
CUT TO: 
EXTERIOR - OFFICE BUILDING - CENTURY CITY 
Vincenzo and Luigi are staring silently and without expression at the broken windshield of the limousine. The limousine driver suddenly starts signaling to a car entering the driveway to the building. He turns to the Castigliane brothers. 
LIMO DRIVER The other car is here sirs. Please allow me. 
The limo driver opens the rear door of the new limo, then hurries around and opens the other rear door. The new driver gets out of the car. 
LIMO DRIVER (cont'd) Here's the key to the car. Take it straight to the garage. They're waiting for you. 
The limo driver closes both back doors after the Castigliane brothers are seated within. He then gets in himself and maneuvers the big limo out into traffic. 
CUT TO: 
PINK'S CHILI DOGS - DAY 
Two guys, JOE ( the guy who killed Ed in the sixth floor office) and BILLY another unkept, rocker type delivery man are standing waiting for their chili dogs with a girl, LANEY, who could be very good looking but she seems to be in poor health. Her hair is long and stringy. She's wearing a tight, short sleeve blue sweater, black jeans and boots. 
BILLY Yeah, sure. Look what happened to them. 
JOE No, no, no, I told you. They're fine. They're all real happy. 
BILLY My next delivery is up that way, so I'll be getting down to it real soon. 
JOE You're so easy. 
BILLY Gotta keep an eye on her, that's all. 
JOE Yeah, what for? 
BILLY Keep her from gettin' in trouble, that's all. 
INT.  MR. ROQUE'S OFFICE   -   SIMULTANEOUS 
MR. ROQUE She's still missing. 
We hear a small click and the line goes dead. Mr. Roque pushes a button and the microphone descends back into the chair. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DARK ELEGANT ROOM - SOMEWHERE 
Again we see the back of the man's head. He's dialing a new number. -He brings the receiver to his ear. We hear a phone ringing - we hear a click- the phone being answered. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FILTHY LOW CLASS KITCHEN - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS 
We see only a black rotary wall phone and a portion of a greasy filthy kitchen - The receiver has already been lifted off the phone and we see only the cord extending to someone off screen. 
HAIRY-ARMED MAN (off screen) Talk to me... 
CUT TO: 
INT. DARK ELEGANT ROOM - SOMEWHERE 
Again we see only the back of the man's head. 
THE MAN Same. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FILTHY LOW CLASS KITCHEN - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS 
A man's hairy-arm enters frame and the receiver is placed back on the phone, then immediately picked back up and with the receiver held in the hand the hairy man dials a new number. Part way through the dialing... 
CUT TO: 
INT. A BLUE TABLE - SOMEWHERE - SIMULTANEOUS 
The surface of this table is high gloss ultra smooth material. A very modern phone sits on this table and begins to ring softly. A hand enters frame - a woman's hand. The skin is pale white, almost translucent. The fingers are long and seem slightly too large. At the ends of the fingers and thumb are stretched tapered high gloss red fingernails which slightly curve downward. The forefinger of the hand presses a button on the phone. A small tone sounds - followed by a very modern sounding coded signal. 
FADE OUT: 
INT. - AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - day 
We pull back from Rita's face until we see that Betty and Rita are sitting on the leather couch about four feet apart staring at the floor. They just sit this way for awhile. 
BETTY Well...  what do you think about then? I mean...  well what do you think about? 
RITA What do you mean? 
BETTY Well ... if you don't remember anything, I mean what goes through your mind then if you don't remember anything? 
RITA Nothing. I do remember the car crash... I told you... I remember the glass ... I think about that sometimes ... I remember walking here, sort of. Now I remember this place and you. That's about it. 
BETTY How do you remember how to talk? 
RITA I don't know. 
BETTY You don't remember anything else? 
RITA No (she covers her eyes with her hands) There is something...something there I can't tell... I can't describe it. (struggling to figure it out - to express it) There are things there.... but I'm... here. 
CYNTHIA Adam, this isn't like you. Please come to the office. There must be something we can do. 
ADAM I'm going home. I'll call you later. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. - 1612 HAVENHURST - DAY 
ESTABLISH 
CUT TO: 
INT . AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The girls are still sitting on the leather couch as before, but now silently off in their own worlds. After a moment... 
BETTY I wonder where you were going. 
Betty's question hangs in the air. Slowly we move close to Rita who is on the verge of remembering something. 
Suddenly - 
RITA Mulholland Drive. 
BETTY Mulholland Drive? 
RITA That's where I was going... Mulholland Drive. 
BETTY Maybe that's where the accident was. There must be a police report. We could call. 
RITA No.... I don't... 
BETTY We could call anonymously from a pay phone... just to see if there was an accident. 
Rita sits worrying. 
BETTY (cont'd) Come on. It'll be just like in the movies. We'll pretend to be someone else. I want to walk around anyway. I'm in Hollywood and I haven't even seen any of it. Come on Rita. Do you feel up to it? 
RITA Okay... but just...just to see. 
BETTY Just to see if there was an accident on Mulholland Drive. 
RITA (tentatively) Okay. 
BETTY Come on... let's find you something to wear. 
CUT TO: 
AUNT RUTH'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Betty laughs as she holds one of Ruth's dresses in front of Rita. 
BETTY It's terrible ... My Aunt dresses like Miss Marple. (off a blank stare from Rita ) She's kind of a frumpy woman detective in British movies. 
Rita laughs along with Betty. Betty goes back in the closet. 
BETTY (cont'd) Here's something okay. 
She brings out a pair of khaki pants. 
BETTY (cont'd) Try these on. You can wear one of my T- shirts with it and it won't look bad with those sandals. 
Lorraine grabs hold of him. Starts pulling his hair, slapping his face. She tears his jacket. Adam stands all at once and with his wet Hot Pink hands he pushes Lorraine and slams her into the kitchen counter just as Gene the poolman enters. Gene grabs ahold of Adam, cocks back and slams his huge suntanned fist into Adam's face. 
GENE That's not a way to treat your wife, buddy. I don't care what she's done. 
Adam gets up off the floor bleeding from the nose and tries to hit Gene. Gene blocks his punch and slams Adam again, knocking him down to the kitchen floor where he lands and spills the jewelry case. Adam, now covered with paint, is picked up by Gene and thrown out toward the front door. 
LORRAINE Throw him out! 
Lorraine opens the front door while Gene picks Adam up, moves him across the carpet and heaves him out onto the front lawn. Lorraine slams the door behind him. 
Adam picks himself up, severely dazed and bleeding pretty badly, he heads for his car. 
Taka stops gardening and smiles and bows at Adam as he gets into his car. 
Adam drives away - pink paint and red blood all over. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  AUNT RUTH'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Rita is now dressed to go out and is studying herself in a mirror. She turns and her gaze falls to her purse. She picks it up and looks questioningly at Betty. 
BETTY (cont'd) No ... you shouldn't take that. Let's hide it. 
They look around the room... There's a hatbox in the closet above the clothes rack. Betty brings it down, takes out the hat, and Rita puts the purse inside. Betty puts the hat over the purse in the hatbox and puts in back in the closet. Betty puts out her hand. Rita looks at it for a moment, smiles, and they shake. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. APARTMENT COURTYARD - DAY 
All dressed now Betty and Rita leave Aunt Ruth's apartment and walk across the courtyard past Coco's apartment and out through the iron gates. No one is about. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOLLYWOOD RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY 
Betty and Rita walk along. Birds are chirping in the trees which line both sides of the street. Betty is smiling and once again looking around at everything. Her good mood and excitement about life lifts Rita's spirits. 
Coming toward them on the sidewalk are two people - a middle- aged woman and a young boy around 10 years old. The boy is very thin and something is wrong with him as he is walking awkwardly on crutches. As the two groups pass each other on the sidewalk Betty is struck deeply by the boy's brilliant, luminous blue eyes which are at once innocent and filled with wisdom. 
After they pass each other Betty turns back and sees the boy and the woman enter 1612 Havenhurst. Betty and Rita continue up the street. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD - DAY 
The girls walk along the busy boulevard, past guitar shops, video stores. Betty is looking for a payphone. Rita's eyes dart back and forth nervously. She's beginning to feel frightened. 
CUT TO: 
PAYPHONE ON RED BRICK WALL - DAY 
We see the red brick building. It is Denny's. Betty and Rita are walking to the payphone. Betty digs out some change from her purse. She picks up the receiver, drops in a quarter and dials the "0" for Operator. An Operator answers. 
BETTY Hollywood Police Department please. 
OPERATOR Is this an emergency? 
BETTY No, no, I just want the number. 
OPERATOR Hold for the number. 
RITA (still staring at the nameplate - thinking) No. Just the coffee. 
BETTY We'll take our check. 
Diane searches through her many checks to find Betty and Rita's. 
The manager of Denny's, standing with a woman in a blue dress, calls Diane's name. Diane turns and looks to the manager and the woman. A fleeting fear goes through her eyes. She surreptitiously reaches in her pocket and takes out a Mont Blanc fountain pen which she puts under Betty's check as she places it on their table. She does this very quickly but Betty notices this and Diane notices Betty noticing. Diane walks quickly over to the manager and the woman in the blue dress. Betty turns and watches a heated conversation that she can't hear, but she sees the woman in the blue dress searching her purse and shrugging and then leaving. 
The manager says something to Diane and Diane turns her pockets inside out and pats herself down in front of the manager showing him her innocence. He waves her off and she goes behind the counter to retrieve an order of food. Betty stops watching and turns her attention to Rita, who is tense and lost in a thought. 
BETTY (cont'd) What is it Rita? 
RITA (without moving a muscle) Shhhh. 
At that moment Diane the waitress reappears at their table. Diane looks Betty in the eye and while looking at Betty her left hand slides the Mont Blanc out from under the check and back into her pocket. 
DIANE Thank you. Come in again. 
Betty holds her gaze. 
BETTY You're welcome. We will. 
Relieved Diane leaves and goes about her business. Betty looks over at Rita waiting for her to tell her something. Rita slowly turns and focuses on Betty. 
RITA I remember something... I remember something! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. - HAVENHURST - DAY 
Betty and Rita are walking back to the apartment. We see them from a distance. They are talking and gesturing in an excited and animated way. Just after they enter through the iron gates of 1612 Havenhurst and are out of sight we notice a car moving slowly up Havenhurst toward us. We notice two men in the front seat who seem to be looking around for something. 
CUT TO: 
INT. - AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The door slams shut. Rita grabs Betty's shoulders. 
RITA Diane Selwyn. Maybe it's my name. 
CUT TO: 
AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER 
Betty and Rita are sitting next to each other on the leather couch. Betty is rifling through the phone book. She finds the listings for Selwyn. Her finger drifts down and finds D. Selwyn followed by an address and phone number. It is the only Selwyn with a D. first name. She hands the phone to Rita. 
BETTY Strange to be calling yourself. 
RITA Maybe it's not me. 
BETTY Call the number. 
Betty reads the number off and Rita pushes the corresponding buttons. Each tone seems to be louder than the last. The ringing seems deafening. There's a click and the phone is answered - by a machine. A woman's voice is heard - loudly. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (coming from answering machine) Hi ... this is me. Leave me a message. 
Betty now has her ear pressed up against the phone also - straining to hear everything. The machine starts recording. Betty hangs up the phone immediately. 
RITA It's not my voice ... but I know her. 
BETTY Maybe the voice isn't Diane Selwyn. Maybe that's your roommate or if it is Diane Selwyn she can tell you who you are. 
We see Rita's face as we hear Betty off screen. 
BETTY "You're still here?" 
RITA "I came back. I thought that's what you wanted." 
We see Betty. 
BETTY (angrily) "Nobody wants you here!" 
Moving back we realize that the girls are acting out Betty's audition scene. Rita is reading her lines. 
RITA "Really?" 
BETTY "My parents are right upstairs! They think you've left..." 
RITA "So... surprise"... 
BETTY "I can call them... I can call my dad... " 
RITA "But you won't..." 
BETTY "You're playing a dangerous game here. If you're trying to blackmail me... it's not going to work." 
RITA "You know what I want...it's not that difficult." 
BETTY (furious) "Get out! Get out before I call my dad ... he trusts you ... your his best friend. This will be the end of everything... " 
RITA "What about you? What will your dad think about you?" 
BETTY "Stop! Just Stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before..." 
RITA "Before what?" 
Betty pulls a table knife out from behind her back. 
BETTY "Before I kill you." 
RITA "Then they'd put you in jail." 
Betty mimes with moving fingers tears flowing from her eyes. 
BETTY Cry, cry, cry, and then I say with big emotion, "I hate you... I hate us both!" 
Betty drops the kitchen knife and both girls start laughing. 
BETTY (cont'd) Such a lame scene. 
RITA But you are really good. 
Betty mimes tapping a cigarette in a cigarette holder ala Dietrich. 
BETTY Thank you dahling! 
CUT TO: 
INT. COCO'S APARTMENT - DAY 
On the move Coco is just bringing her cigarette in its holder up to her painted red lips. The phone is ringing and she's crossing the room to answer it. 
COCO (into phone) Hello ... Ruthie... How's the great up north? ... Oh, I'm sorry to hear it ... what? Well, I haven't seen her if she's in there. Now, Ruthie there's nothing to worry about. I saw Betty last night and she was just fine. Yes, and I gave them to her. She's a real nice kid, Ruthie. Now stop worrying, will ya. I'll go over and have a look around. I will. I've got the production office number. I'll find you. Now keep your socks on up there and take lots of "C." Goodbye honey. 
COCO Don't make me out to be a sucker. Louise Bonner says there's trouble in there. You remember last night. Sometimes she's wrong, but if there is trouble - get rid of it. 
Coco turns and walks away. Betty studies her and thinks about what she said before turning and going back inside. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - SAME 
Betty enters through the screen door. Rita studies her. 
RITA Is everything all right? Is it bad for you that I'm here? 
BETTY (slightly forcing a broad smile) Everything is A-okay, but I've gotta get that sandwich! 
On her way to the kitchen she checks her watch. 
BETTY (cont'd) And I've got an audition in one hour. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HOLLYWOOD POLICE STATION - DAY 
Detective Neal Domgaard throws two wallets down on the desk in front of Detective Harry McKnight. Harry pauses in the middle of a large bite of grilled cheese sandwich with bacon and tomato. He looks down and studies the wallets. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT (biting in and chewing) Nice wallets. 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Handstitched Italian. Filled with phony credit cards ... off the two guys in the Caddy. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT The one of 'em still alive? 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Yeah... just .... Dr. Scott's got 'im. You remember Dr.Scott. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT Oh yeah. 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Well he said...  you know in his way... you know what I mean? Besides the guy gettin' rolled up under the kids car which busted him up pretty bad, there was this little knife-like torn piece of metal, you know, off the car body, rolled out and slid up through this guy's neck and just kinda slit his aorta, you know, but they didn't find it right away, so the guy's losin' a lot of blood, you know, to the brain - all this time cause it was just like this thin little puncture wound on the surface of his neck that kinda sealed itself, he said, while inside the aorta is bleedin' pretty steady all that time. So, Dr. Scott's laughin' you know like he does 'cause he knows we want to talk to this guy. He's laughin' you know and shakin'... Son of a bitch couldn't stop laughin'... It was kinda contagious 'cause pretty soon we were all laughin'...the nurse was laughin'. You know how he is. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT Find out who they are? 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Nope, not yet. Their fingerprints don't match up anywhere. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT (another big bite - chewing) Interesting. 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Yeah ... and they both use the same address. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT Where at? 
DETECTIVE NEAL DOMGAARD Palmdale. 
DETECTIVE HARRY MCKNIGHT Damn, that's a long drive. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. -  COURTYARD 1612 HAVENHURST - DAY 
Betty is coming out of Aunt Ruth's apartment. She calls back in to Rita. 
BETTY I hope I'm back in a couple of hours. Don't drink all the coke. (we hear laughter from inside and Rita call out.) 
RITA Good luck! 
BETTY When I get back I'll have the cab waiting, so be ready to go. 
BETTY Thank you... thank you very much. 
CUT TO: 
INT.   EXECUTIVE BUILDING - SECOND FLOOR - DAY 
Betty finishes climbing some stairs and crosses to the receptionist. She hands over her pass. The receptionist looks at it, hands it back to Betty and points down the hall to her left. 
RECEPTIONIST Number 43, on the left. 
BETTY Thank you. 
Betty walks down the long corridor past several offices. The door to office 43 is open when she arrives and she enters a large sitting room with a receptionist at a desk off to one side. 
RECEPTIONIST May I help you? 
BETTY My name is Betty Elms. I'm here to audition for... Mr. Brown 
RECEPTIONIST Good. Perfect timing. Have a seat and I'll get Mr. Brown. 
The receptionist stands, walks to a door, knocks twice, then enters. 
She closes the door behind her and Betty is alone in the sitting room. She sits on a couch and looks at the old movie posters covering all four walls. 
In a moment the same door opens again and an elderly, distinguished looking gentleman WALLY BROWN comes out smiling. Betty stands up immediately. 
WALLY Betty Elms? 
BETTY Yes. 
WALLY I'm Wally Brown. Your Aunt is a very dear friend of mine so it's particularly nice to meet you. 
BETTY Very pleased to meet you. 
WALLY Come in. I'd like you to meet everyone. 
As they walk into Wally's office... 
WALLY (cont'd) I took the liberty of inviting an extra person to see your audition. She saw your resume picture and was very interested in meeting you. 
Inside Wally's office several people rise out of chairs when Wally enters with Betty. 
WALLY (cont'd) Betty Elms this is Jack Taft, my assistant, Jimmy Katz who we've already cast for the part of "Chuck". He'll be doing the scene with you. This is Julie Chadwick and Bob Brooker, the director, and our surprise guest is Sarah James. We couldn't afford her to cast our picture, but as casting agents go she's the best. 
SARAH JAMES Why thank you, Wally. Hello Betty. 
She and Betty shake hands. 
BETTY Pleased to meet you. 
SARAH JAMES This is Nicki, my assistant. 
Nicki, a very stylish, thin girl with black cat-eyed glasses nods coolly to Betty. 
WALLY And this is Martha, Martha Johnson, who you met out front. 
Betty nervously smiles to the room. 
BETTY Hi. 
WALLY Well. Shall we get to it? Would you like a water or a coffee before we begin? 
Jimmy smiles broadly and moves again toward Betty. 
JIMMY So ... surprise! 
Betty pushes him back. 
BETTY I can call them... I can call my dad. 
JIMMY But you won't. 
He grabs Betty by the wrist again and pulls her in to him. He puts his hand on her waist and it accidently slips and keeps going down her hips. He jerks his hand back. Betty looks down and sees Jimmy's hand hovering above her thigh. Betty takes her hand and gently presses down on Jimmy's hand. She slowly looks up with the most seductive smile. Jimmy lets his hand rest more firmly on her thigh, and squeezes her thigh as he sees her smile. With his other hand Jimmy gently pulls her closer. Something has started coming over Betty and she catches the drift of this scene in a different way. She's surprising herself. 
BETTY (almost a hot whisper) You're playing a dangerous game here. if you're trying to blackmail me... it's not going to work. 
Jimmy now surprises himself. He becomes almost tender and genuinely worked up from the heat coming off Betty. 
JIMMY You know what I want...it's not that difficult. 
Where the scene should turn to anger from Betty it can't now and Betty plays it as she feels it. She stays in very close to Jimmy - looking him right in the eyes. 
BETTY (whispering desperately - slowly) Get out... Get out before I call my dad. He trusts you... you're his best friend. (her arms go around him) This will be the end of everything. 
Jimmy gets lost. He doesn't know where he is anymore. He can only see Betty's eyes. 
JIMMY What about you? What will your dad think about you? 
Betty still playing it in a dreamy whisper... lost in heat. 
BETTY Stop... just stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before... 
JIMMY (caught by her transfixing, sultry eyes, and almost breathless ... he finds himself taking an extra long pause) Before what? 
As scripted Betty pretends to pull the knife from behind her back, but wraps the knife around behind Jimmy and pulls him into a kiss. 
BETTY (as she kisses him - whispers) Before I kill you. 
Jimmy panics and pushes Betty away with his hands on her shoulders as if forcing himself to come out of a trance. He finally is able to say his line. 
JIMMY Then they'd put you in jail. 
As scripted Betty is supposed to cry now and it is very easy for her to do this because she's ashamed at how the sex of the scene took her over. Tears begin running down her cheeks. She backs away. 
BETTY I hate you... I hate us both! 
She pretends to drop the knife. The scene ends. 
Everyone in the room has become mesmerized by Betty, but they soon drift back to reality and begin applauding the performance. Sarah turns to Nicki. 
SARAH JAMES I'm going to take her over there. 
NICKI Big time! 
WALLY (to everyone) Wow! 
Betty wipes her eyes and turns smiling - still shocked at herself. 
BETTY Well, there it was. 
JIMMY There it was it was! Baby, you got a way! 
WALLY Bob? 
He gets out of his chair and walks into the set - up to the blonde girl. He shakes her hand. 
ADAM (cont'd) Thank you very much, Carol. It was really great of you to come in. I know how busy you are. 
CAROL Oh, man, are you kidding? I love this script! Where do I sign? 
ADAM Look... I love you, but there's no way they're gonna let me cast this thing until I've seen everyone. I'll let you know as soon as I can. 
CAROL I know you will ... cause my manager's gonna bug you day and night ... me too. 
ADAM It'll be my pleasure. Now, get out of here. 
CAROL Oh, you're just so cruel... don't forget me. I'm the girl that's going to play this part. 
ADAM (lightly pinching her cheek) See ya later. 
Adam turns and goes back out of the set onto the stage floor. He looks around. He sees Betty being introduced by Sarah to some of the studio executives. He goes over to his Assistant Director and looks down at the man's notepad. 
ADAM (cont'd) Who's next, Hank? 
HANK Camilla Rhodes. 
Adam wonders - worries. 
ADAM Is she ready? 
HANK All ready. 
ADAM Bring her out. 
Hank speaks into his walkie-talkie headset. The sound of his voice can be heard in several locations throughout the stage. 
HANK (through walkie-talkie) Camilla Rhodes next! 
Adam looks up - a beautiful blonde steps into the set in front of the microphone. IT IS THE GIRL! The back-up singers step in behind her. 
Adam nods to Hank. 
HANK (cont'd) Turn over! 
The cameraman calls out, "Speed". 
ADAM (through megaphone) Playback! 
Countdown before the music begins. 
ADAM (cont'd) ACTION! 
The strings soar up and Camilla Rhodes begins to sing. 
On the set Betty hears the song again and turns and watches. Once again her eyes find Adam as his eyes are finding hers. This time Adam turns away. He watches Camilla for a moment. She is passable, but not spectacular. Adam reaches out and pulls Hank over to him. 
HANK Yeah? 
Adam pauses. 
ADAM Get Jason over here. 
Hank gets on his walkie-talkie. 
HANK Cindy ... Adam wants to see Jason. 
RITA No. 
Betty jumps up and catches her knees on the siding, her head through the open window. 
BETTY PUSH!!! 
Rita reluctantly pushes and Betty is in. As she closes the window ... 
BETTY (cont'd) Meet you at the door. 
Rita walks around to the front door and gets there just as Betty opens it. Betty has her hand over her mouth and nose. 
BETTY (cont'd) I don't know if you want to come in here or not. There's some kind of horrible smell like... something... 
Rita is compelled to go in and as the door clicks shut she reacts to the smell. 
CUT TO: 
INT. - BUNGALOW #17 - DAY 
Betty begins to go through the bungalow and Rita follows. All the blinds are closed and the curtains drawn. They move slowly, looking around at everything as they go. Betty looks to Rita to see if any of this is something she remembers. Rita looks as though she's walking in a trance. Through the half light they move deeper into the bungalow to a corridor. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SIERRA BONITA APARTMENTS - BUNGALOW #12 - DAY 
The Middle-Aged Woman is just shutting the door to her bungalow. She walks quickly in the direction of Bungalow 
CUT TO: 
INT. - BUNGALOW #17 - DAY 
Betty and Rita are moving down the corridor. They pass a small room and look in at a couch, wardrobe and make-up table. They move on down the corridor to a door which is almost closed. Betty touches the door and it seems to swing open on its own. They enter the room and stop cold. A scream starts to build inside Rita. Before them is a dead woman lying on a bed. Great chunks of mattress are standing upright having been ripped and torn by shotgun blasts. A dried sea of blood surrounds the bloated, gray body of the woman. The scream comes out of Rita as a force propelling her to look closer. Betty lunges after Rita, her eyes also not able to leave the sight. She covers Rita's mouth with her hand and brings her close. The scream is stifled by Betty's hand. 
In the silence that follows, knocking can be heard. Betty freezes and keeps Rita quiet with her hand still placed over her mouth, but she can't stop Rita's violent shaking nor the horror in her eyes. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BUNGALOW #17 - DAY 
The Middle-Aged Woman backs away from the front door, looking around at bungalow #17. She's not sure if she has heard something or not. She wonders, then turns and goes back to her bungalow. 
Just as she has disappeared the door to Bungalow #17 flies open and Rita, followed closely behind by Betty, runs with a look of horror directly toward us until her tortured face fills the screen. 
Sounds, churning music. 
CUT TO: 
INT. AUNT RUTH'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - DAY 
Sounds, music churning continues. 
Great sobs, almost hysterical, wrack Rita's body as she bends over the sink, scissoring into her long, dark hair with a frenzy. There is a loud sound of the scissors cutting deep through many strands of hair. Betty's is rushing to her - her hands reach tenderly, but firmly for Rita's hand holding the scissors. She keeps her from cutting and moves closer, whispering in Rita's ear. Rita can't stop crying, but lets Betty hold her. Music changes ... 
BETTY Rita... I know what you're doing. 
RITA (through uncontrollable sobs) What ... I..HAVE... to do. 
BETTY I know what you have to do, but let me do it. 
Rita turns and looks up at Betty, her eyes red with crying. Betty pulls her up facing her. Rita lets Betty take the scissors. They look into each other's eyes. Betty gently strokes Rita's cheek, wiping away some tears. 
