MUTE WITNESS 
Screenplay by 
Anthony Waller 
CREDITS (First part) 
White letters on black screen. We hear the sound of a radio with a lot of statics. Apparently, someone is scanning the channels. After we've heard different channels, the scanning stops on a channel with jazz music. 
With a loud sound, the credits stop, the black screen moves away to the right and is replaced by : 
FILM SET - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY (it is actually day-time, but the scene in the film being shot is supposed to take place during the night. So all the artificial lights make us believe it is night-time) 
We still hear the sound of the radio. 
We are on a film set, even though we don't know it yet. The way it is filmed makes us believe we are in a real bedroom. 
A bedroom, seen through a window. Nice, clean, elegantly furnished and very well lit. Large bed. On the other side of the room from the window, a young woman is seated in front of desk facing the wall. The young woman stands up, with a paper document in her hand. She is wearing thick hoses, large slippers and a man's white shirt, which hangs down to the middle of her thighs. 
She walks out of the bedroom, to the next room. The window opens, and the camera, which acts as the eyes of the intruder, looks around the room. 
VOICE ON THE RADIO We interrupt this program to bring you a special news bulletin. 
The camera moves to the next room : 
FILM SET - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
A dining-room with a large mantlepiece. In the center of the room, a round dining table with four chairs around it. The table is set, ready for dinner. 
VOICE ON THE RADIO Ernest Strohbecker and two accomplices escaped from a maximum-security ward in Bellevue Hospital last night... 
The camera (and consequently the eyes of the intruder) keeps on looking around the room and then focus on the radio set sitting on a small table. 
Close shot on the radio. The volume of the radio goes up. 
VOICE ON THE RADIO ... after brutally stabbing two nurses and a custodian to death. Strohbecker is extremely dangerous, brutal and unpredict... 
The radio is suddenly switched off. 
The camera moves upward to show us the corridor and the open door of the bathroom in the corridor. 
THE YOUNG WOMAN (Voice over) Harry ? 
FILM SET - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
Close shot on the mirror, in front of which the young woman is standing. She looks a bit surprised by the sudden silence of the radio, but very soon goes back to her make-up. 
FILM SET - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
The camera (and consequently the eyes of the intruder) moves along the corridor, toward the door of the bathroom. It stops very shortly to look at the young woman, still taking care of her make- up, and moves away to look at the open door on the other side of the corridor. 
FILM SET - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
A kitchen. There is no light and the room is very dark. Close shot on the row of knives hanging on the wall. A man's hand takes one of the knives. 
FILM SET - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
The young woman opens a small closet, temporarily hiding her face to the camera. She takes a lipstick and start doing her lips. 
Close-up shot on the woman's lips, with the lipstick moving around them. 
Back to the mirror, showing the reflection of the young woman. She opens the small closet. In the mirror, which covers the door of the closet, we see a man approaching slowly, with a knife in his hand. 
Close-up shot on the woman's lips. 
FILM SET - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film) 
High-angle shot of the corridor, seen from the ceiling. 
The woman comes out of the bathroom. She sees something, stops and walks slightly backward. 
THE YOUNG WOMAN Harry ? She walks to an half-open door and closes the door. 
ANDY (yelling) A day ? 
THE RUSSIAN ASSISTANT Yeah. 
Andy stands up and slaps his thighs, looking very nervous. 
ANDY Okay, well, let's just do the close-up of the corpse now, and that'll wrap it for today. 
The Russian assistant says a few words in Russian. Andy makes a sign to the camera operator for him to come closer to him. The operator joins Andy. 
ANDY All right. Okay. So, what I want to do is zoom in, do a slow zoom into the puddle of blood... On another part of the set, behind the dining room, Billy kneels down in front of a big ancient-looking wooden trunk. 
On the lid of the trunk is written, in white large capital letters : «KEEP OUT ! BILLY'S BOX». Billy opens the trunk. Inside, on the inside part of the lid, various props, and in the trunk itself, a big square plastic bottle and, in a plastic box, plenty of smaller bottles. 
Behind   Billy, who is still kneeling in front of the trunk, we see Lyosha   walking around. He looks at Billy, who feels she is being looked   at. She turns around and looks at Lyosha. Natasha walks toward   Billy. 
NATASHA Billy. 
Natasha kneels down to be at Billy's level. 
NATASHA Madame Olga wants some sugar in her blood again. Billy laughs. 
BILLY (in sign language) Thank you. 
Billy stands up and starts pulling the big heavy square plastic bottle out of the trunk. Lyosha comes to help Billy pull the bottle out of the trunk. They both slowly put the bottle down on the floor. Billy looks up at Lyosha, who is smiling to her. Then he walks away. Billy, kneeling on the floor, opens the bottle. Karen walks in from behind the trunk. She leans on the open lid of the trunk. 
KAREN So, he's kind of cute. 
Billy is pouring a bag of sugar in the bottle. 
KAREN Three months in Moscow, cold winter nights... 
Billy smiles. 
KAREN Just a thought. 
Billy makes several language signs. 
KAREN Billy, that's what Mom would say. 
Billy looks at her sister. 
Another part of the set, near the entrance of the set. The building janitor, wearing a more or less official cap, just walked in. Karen sees the janitor and waves at him. Billy looks in the janitor's direction. KAREN Hi. 
Billy waves at the janitor, who waves back at the girls. Then he yells something in Russian. Billy and Karen look at each other. They seem to understand what he says. Billy shows two finger to him. The janitor says something in Russian and walks away. 
The dining-room set. The young Russian actress is sitting on the floor among the debris she has created and she is putting lipstick on her lips, looking at her face in a small pocket mirror. Billy walks in with a small plastic case in her hands. She sits on the floor next to the actress and puts the box down beside her. She takes the lipstick and the mirror away from the actress' hands, and puts them down on the floor. Then she gives her a little piece of white cotton to wipe the lipstick out of her lips. The actress takes it and starts wiping her lips. Then Billy takes some make-up to put it on the actress' face. A male hand puts a light meter close to the actress' face. 
A strong light starts playing on Billy's face, and we hear a Russian voice who seems to come from a loudspeaker. 
The upper part of the film set. Three big spotlights on a rack. An electrician is playing with one of them. 
Billy puts her hand above her eyes to try to locate who is sending that strong light on her face. 
The electrician says a few words in Russian. 
The actress looks up to see who is talking. 
Closer shot on the electrician sitting on the spotlight rack. He is Arkadi, the man who was sitting next to the actor playing the murderer, and who offered him a light for his cigarette. He speaks in Russian with a queer smile on his face. 
Natasha squats down near Billy and the actress, to speak to Billy. 
NATASHA He says use more white like a real dead body. 
Billy covers her eyes and looks up at the spotlight rack. 
Arkadi smiles and winks to Billy. 
Billy closes her plastic case. 
The actress eats a piece of cake. She lies down on the floor. 
ANDY (voice over) Okay, Boris, get everyone ready. 
Billy drops the spear on the floor and runs away from the window. 
CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
A large corridor. A door opens and Billy rushes out. She opens a door at the end of the corridor and runs out. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT The gallery around the top of the set. A door opens and Billy runs along the gallery. 
At ground level, we see Billy coming down the stairs leading to the gallery. Billy runs across the film set, which seems not to have been used recently. 
Billy reaches a heavy metal door and tries to open it... without any success. She kicks it. 
CINEMA STUDIO - ANOTHER ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The parking lot seen trough the heavy metal bars of a door. It is darker than before and completely empty. Close-up shot on an big padlock and a thick chain set across the bars of the door. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT 
We hear very loud rock music. 
Close shot on the gas stove. Ground meat is cooking in a frying pan. Chopped onions are being poured into another frying pan from a wooden cutting board. 
Andy is spraying some spices on the meat. He is wearing an apron tied around his waist. He tastes his «cuisine» from a spoon. He is bobbing up an down in rhythm with the music. Andy makes the round spice rack spin around very fast and picks up a jar from the rack. Then he pours spices from two different jars with both hands, in rhythm with the music, miming a drummer beating his drums with his sticks. Then he pours tomato sauce from a can into a saucepan. He throws the empty can away. 
ANDY Yeah ! 
He takes another spice jar. But the lid of the jar comes off, and all the spices fall down into the meat. He puts the empty jar down. 
ANDY Damn ! 
He takes the lid off the meat. We hear the phone ringing. Andy lowers the volume of the music from the radio set hanging on the wall. The phone is still ringing. 
ANDY Honey ! Honey, can you get that ? 
Andy takes the meat frying pan out of the stove to pour the meat into the onions frying pan. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The kitchen seen from the dark living room. There is no door between kitchen and living room, just a wide open arch. The phone is still ringing. Andy turns around. 
ANDY Honey ! 
KAREN (voice over) I'm in the shower ! 
Andy puts the frying pan back on the stove and runs in the living- room. He picks up the phone from a table. 
ANDY Hello ?... Hello ? 
CINEMA STUDIO - A ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Close dark shot of Billy with the telephone handset to her ear. She taps on the microphone of the handset. The telephone set is on a small shelf fixed on the wall. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Even if the volume of the radio has been lowered, it is still loud enough for Andy not to be able to hear Billy's tapping. A hissing sound, coming from the kitchen, makes him turn around. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT 
On the stove, a big stew pot is hissing, and water is leaking between the lid and the pot. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Andy takes the telephone set and runs toward the kitchen. But the cord is a bit too short and is stretched tight just when he reaches the kitchen. He drops the telephone set on the floor. 
ANDY Hello ? 
He tries to reach the stove control panel while still holding the telephone handset to his ear. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Andy's hand is trying to reach the control panel of the stove. 
CINEMA STUDIO - A ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
KAREN Thank God. She's there. Are you all right ? 
ANDY Ask her about the mask. 
Karen shushes Andy with her hand. 
KAREN You want to tap something through ? CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is holding the telephone next to her ear. She taps on the microphone with her finger. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen has the telephone handset squeezed between her head and her shoulder. 
KAREN Wait. Wait. Wait. 
Andy turns around because he just heard a hissing noise in the kitchen. He runs toward the stove. 
ANDY Oh, man ! 
KAREN (voice over) A...O... 
ANDY Oh, man ! 
In the kitchen, Andy tries to save his cooking. 
KAREN ...L ? 
Andy puts his frying pan down into a large white plastic can full of water, where it starts hissing. 
ANDY Man ! Oh, man ! 
KAREN Was it L ? The second letter, was it L ? Karen shushes Andy with her hand. 
ANDY Shit ! 
Andy is getting his frying pan out of the plastic can. 
KAREN A-L-L ? 
While Karen is trying to understand her sister's message, Andy is banging the frying pan on the side of the can, to get rid of everything that was inside it. 
KAREN O...kay ! 
She smiles. 
In the kitchen, Andy looks at his empty frying pan. ANDY We're eating out tonight. 
KAREN Okay. So are you coming over now ? 
CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy keeps on tapping on the microphone. 
KAREN (voice over on the telephone) Do you have the mask ? 
Billy taps again. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
KAREN Well, don't worry. Just get over here. 
ANDY You hungry ? 
KAREN Bye. 
Andy throws the frying pan in the can of water, where it hisses again. Karen looks at Andy, puts the telephone down and makes a face. 
CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is running downstairs. 
CINEMA STUDIO - A FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Lyosha walks slowly toward Billy. He tries to open a door, but it is locked. We hear him talking in Russian. 
Billy is still hidden behind the red vending machine. 
LYOSHA Hello ? 
Lyosha keeps on walking slowly toward Billy. 
LYOSHA Is anyone there ? 
Lyosha is looking at the far end of the corridor. He crosses toward a door. 
LYOSHA I can explain. 
He opens the door and walks inside the room. 
Billy peeks cautiously from behind the machine, and sees the open door. She runs toward the emergency exit. She breaks the glass with her hand and grabs the key. 
LYOSHA (voice over) Ho ? 
Billy runs back toward the vending machine, behind which she hides again. 
Lyosha walks out of the room, leaving the door open, and looks at the far end of the corridor. 
Billy is still hidden behind the vending machine. Lyosha is coming toward her. Billy moves slowly along the wall, keeping her back as close as possible of the wall. She opens a door and enters a dark room. She closes the door behind her. 
Lyosha reaches the vending machine, and starts running toward the emergency exit. He stops near the emergency box with its broken glass. He looks inside the emergency box. His finger comes out of the box, with the tip covered with Billy's blood. He tries to open the emergency door, which is locked. 
CINEMA STUDIO - STORE ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
A dark store room, with large windows. The door opens and Lyosha walks in. He runs to the window. He looks outside, but seeing nothing significant, he turns around and walks a couple of steps inside the room. He stops and looks around. He starts walking again across the room. Suddenly something catches his eye. 
Close shot on the bottom of a long drape. There is a thin space between the bottom of the drape and the floor. And on this thin space, the tip of a shoe is showing. Lyosha walks slowly toward the drape. He pulls the drape open with a very quick movement. Several racks of shoes were actually hidden by the drape. 
CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT 
A door opens in the back of the room and Billy walks in the room. There is some light coming from the door. Billy walks to the main door of the room and opens it. She raises her arm and grabs the bell at the top of the door to silence it. She walks out of the room. 
CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The long corridor. The lights are still on. Billy walks out of her workshop and closes the door. She starts running along the corridor toward the emergency exit. She suddenly stops, when she hears a door opening. She runs back toward the staircase and hides near the entrance of the staircase. In the background, we see Lyosha coming out of a room. The camera pans toward the staircase and Billy. A door opens on the floor below, and the large shadow of a man is projected on the wall of the staircase. Billy runs on the other side of the landing, while the man starts climbing the stairs. He is Arkadi, the electrician working on Andy's film, and the one who was playing with a spotlight on Billy's face. He is bare-chested, which makes us believe he was the poor actress' murderer. He reaches the landing and stops. 
Billy is still hiding in a dark corner. She sees Arkadi coming on the landing. 
ARKADI Lyosha ! Lyosha is coming to meet Arkadi. They speak in Russian. 
Billy looks at the two men, then she moves silently away from them. She reaches the door of the elevator, which is supposed to be out of order, and opens it. She puts the key of the emergency exit door in her mouth, and start climbing down the elevator shaft emergency ladder. 
CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy climbs down the emergency ladder, trying not to miss the steps. 
Her face is now on the level of the bottom of the door of the elevator. There is a small gap between the bottom of the door and the floor, which enables Billy to peek at what is going on in the corridor. 
A shoe appears in the gap between the door and the floor. 
Close shot on the small window at the top of the elevator door. Arkadi's face appears in the window. He looks around inside the elevator shaft. 
Billy is not in front of the gap anymore, but hiding in the dark. She puts the key in front of the gap. 
Arkadi tries to open the door of the elevator. But it is locked. The blood on his hand proves that Arkadi was actually the poor actress' murderer. Through the small window, he looks around in the shaft. 
Billy tries not to be seen through the gap. 
Arkadi still looks around in the shaft. He turns his head to talk in Russian to Lyosha. 
Billy has got the key back between her teeth. We hear the two men talking in Russian. 
Arkadi's face moves away from the window. Some lights are switched off, making the window slightly darker. 
Billy moves away from the wall of the shaft and falls. She catches the elevator cables. 
Close shot on Billy's face. She is holding the cables. She makes a face because of the pain. She doesn't have the key in her mouth anymore. 
CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy climbs down the shaft. 
CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT Arkadi walks away in the basement. Billy slowly comes out of the elevator door and runs away in the opposite direction from Arkadi. She hides behind a pillar, because she sees Arkadi's lamp in the background. Arkadi is coming back, and Billy moves around the pillar to be hidden from Arkadi's eyes. Arkadi stops near the elevator. He opens the elevator's door. 
Billy runs away. She trips on something and makes a little noise. She stops. 
Arkadi, coming out of the elevator, looks in Billy's direction. 
Billy opens a door and walks out. 
Arkadi slowly walks away from the elevator door. 
The door closes smoothly behind Billy. 
CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is walking rapidly upstairs. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The door of the set opens and Billy walks in. She walks slowly through the set, looking around her. Suddenly, the big spotlights are switched on one by one. 
In the electricians' control cabin, we see Lyosha switching the lights on. More spotlights are switched on. 
Billy is running around on the set, trying to avoid the lights. She reaches the scenery and jumps out of one of the scenery windows. 
A searchlight, controlled by Lyosha. The searchlight is following Billy. Billy tries to avoid the searchlight. She runs away toward the exit of the set. She meets Arkadi coming back on the set, but she keeps on running. 
ARKADI Billy ! 
Billy starts climbing a ladder, but before climbing, she pushes a heavy piece of furniture to block the bottom of the ladder. The piece of furniture falling down makes other props fall down. Arkadi starts moving the props out of his way. He reaches the bottom the ladder. 
ARKADI Wait. I explain. 
He starts climbing the ladder, turning his head around to yell : 
ARKADI Lyosha ! In the electricians' control cabin, hearing his name, Lyosha looks outside the cabin. 
ARKADI (voice over) Lyosha ! 
He says a few words in Russian. 
A gallery near the ceiling of the set. Billy is running along the gallery. 
Lyosha runs out of the electricians' control cabin and on the gallery. 
Billy runs down a few steps and outside the room. From the other side of the gallery, Lyosha comes running after her. 
CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Lyosha runs downstairs. 
CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The long dark corridor, with the staircase in the foreground. Lyosha runs in the corridor from the staircase, but before entering the corridor, he switches the lights on. With the lights on, we can see Billy running away to the far end of the corridor. Lyosha runs after her. 
Zoom on the emergency door, coming closer to us. 
Billy is running toward the door. 
Billy puts the key in the keyhole. She opens the emergency door and shuts it behind her. 
Lyosha runs toward the door. He pushes it open. CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The other side of the door, opening on a small gallery leading to the emergency ladders set along the exterior wall of the building. 
The door is been violently pushed open by Lyosha. With Lyosha's violent push, Billy falls backward, above the balcony of the gallery and down on the yard below. 
Billy falls on her back on a huge pile of used film metal boxes. 
Lyosha bends over the balcony and looks down at Billy. 
Karen turns toward Andy. 
KAREN Andy, go with the janitor... 
Lyosha seems worried. 
KAREN (voice over) ...and fetch an ambulance ! 
Andy joined the janitor with his dog. 
KAREN (voice over) Billy's had an accident. ANDY What ? 
Lyosha says something in Russian to the janitor. 
KAREN (voice over) Don't just stand there ! 
Karen looks at Andy. 
KAREN Do it now ! 
The dog barks. Andy turns toward the janitor 
ANDY Ambulance ! 
The janitor answers in Russian. The dog keeps on barking. Andy pushes the janitor toward his office. 
ANDY Come on ! 
They both walk away. 
Karen bends over Billy. 
KAREN It's all right, sweetie. 
Billy is still moving restlessly. 
KAREN I'm here now and an ambulance is on its way. 
Karen pushes Lyosha's hand away. KAREN Let go of her. She's trying to say something. 
Lyosha stands up. Billy talks to Karen with her hand. 
KAREN Police ? 
Billy keeps on signing. 
KAREN Murder ? 
She looks up at Lyosha. 
Lyosha shrugs his shoulders and makes a face that means he doesn't know what Billy is talking about. 
KAREN Andy ! Andy ! CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
This the set where the poor actress was brutally murdered. 
Billy is seated between Karen and Andy. She has a disoriented look on her face, and a blanket is wrapped around her shoulders. Karen is tenderly stroking Billy's shoulder. We hear some laughing and people talking in Russian. 
Lyosha and Arkadi are talking to an uniformed Russian policeman, who seems to be in charge of the inquiry. Consequently, he will be, from now on, mentioned as «First Policeman» 
The other policeman (who shall be mentioned as «Second Policeman») is kneeling down, looking at something on the floor, and the janitor is standing in a corner with his dog on a leash. 
Lyosha, Arkadi and the first policeman are still talking together. They slowly walk toward the rest of the group. The second policeman, who was still kneeling down, stands up. 
Billy is listening to Lyosha, apparently trying to lip-read and understand what he says. Lyosha turns toward her. 
LYOSHA Excuse me. It's true. We just fake murder. If we really want to murder... 
The two uniformed policemen are listening to Lyosha. 
LYOSHA (voice over) ...why make film of it ? 
Lyosha and Arkadi both laugh. 
The first policeman looks at the two men, and speaks in Russian to them. 
Arkadi and Lyosha both look slightly embarrassed. Lyosha starts walking away. 
Karen looks, with a worried eye, to the departing Lyosha. 
KAREN Wait. Stop ! Karen runs after Lyosha. 
KAREN He could expose the film. 
The first policeman takes Lyosha's arm and talks to him in Russian. 
FIRST POLICEMAN Let her do it. Please. 
KAREN Okay. 
Karen starts working on the hermetic bag used as a portable dark room. Karen puts her arms inside the bag. 
KAREN This lets you unload the film without needing a darkroom. 
FIRST POLICEMAN I see. Close shot on Arkadi's face. He looks very menacing. 
Andy starts taking his jacket off. 
ANDY (whispering) God, it's hot in here. 
In the background, Arkadi is bending down on something we don't see. He looks up at Karen. 
KAREN (voice over) If he had exposed the film to the light, he could have destroyed all the evidence. 
Billy looks at Arkadi, still busy doing something that we don't see. 
KAREN (voice over) Actually, I haven't done this since film school. 
Arkadi stands up from whatever he was doing. 
KAREN (voice over) Right. It's safe in the can now. 
Arkadi walks around the group. 
KAREN (voice over) Here. Take it to the lab immediately... 
Close shot on Arkadi walking away. 
KAREN (voice over) ...for developing. 
Billy, who understands something wrong is going on with Arkadi, stamps her feet. Karen gives the film to the first policeman. 
KAREN It's okay... It's okay. 
Arkadi is walking slowly with something that looks like a knife in his hand. We hear Billy clapping her hands. Andy turns around to look at Billy. 
Billy points to Arkadi and tries to explain something in sign language. 
Karen looks at Billy. 
KAREN Murder weapon ? Where ? 
Arkadi grabs Andy and pushes him against the wall. 
Karen screams. Arkadi stabs Andy in the stomach with his knife. Andy screams. He has blood on his cheek. Arkadi keeps on stabbing Andy. 
The first policeman takes his gun out of his belt. 
Both policemen grab Arkadi from behind. They pull him away from Andy. They have both drown their guns. 
Karen rushes toward Andy, whose shirt is covered with blood. 
Karadi, still restrained by the two policemen, is yelling in Russian. 
LYOSHA (voice over) Stop. Stop. Stop! 
Arkadi drops his knife, and it remains attached to his wrist by a plastic tube. Actually, it was a fake prop knife. 
KAREN Oh ! Wait. Wait. Ah ! She says... Well, there were more bags in there before. 
The first policeman seems a bit fed up with Billy. 
ARKADI No, she's right. I will show you. 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
They are all coming out of the basement on a ramp that reaches the yard and the parking lot around the building. Arkadi is leading them. ARKADI From lift shaft we take the rubbish here. Fast. Easy. 
The janitor says something in Russian. They have reached the large plastic trash containers where all the trashes from the studio are dropped off, waiting for the garbage collectors to take them away. The second policeman raises the lid of a container, while the first policeman looks inside. Arkadi takes a bag out of another container and drops it on the ground. The second policeman looks inside the bag with his flashlight. There seems to be a head inside the bag. The policeman pours the content of the bag on the ground. Actually the head was just a mask ! 
ANDY Hey, we need that. 
He picks up the mask from the rubbish. He wipes it with his hand. The first policeman gives his card to both Billy and Karen. 
FIRST POLICEMAN Sorry, I can do nothing for you now. But I will call you after I see the film. Okay ? Sorry. He walks away. The second policeman shakes hands with Arkadi and Lyosha and goes away with his chief. 
Billy rests her head on Karen's shoulder. 
Lyosha looks at her, shrugs and smiles. 
ANDY'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Close up shot on Billy's face, seated in the back of the car. She looks very sad and disappointed. 
Andy is driving, with Karen seated next to him. 
ANDY Well, I've never been more embarrassed in my entire life. 
KAREN I don't get it. I mean, Billy's a pro. She'd know the difference between a real murder and a gag. 
ANDY Please, has she even seen a real murder ? 
KAREN That's my point. If what she saw tonight was real, then she has seen the difference, right ? 
ANDY Oh, come on, honey. We all bought the guy cutting me up tonight. Even I believed it. 
KAREN Because you're a wuss. 
She laughs. ANDY I'm gonna let that slide. 
Karen looks at Billy. 
ANDY No offense, Billy, but I'd like to re-shoot the stuff today using that guy's knife. 
KAREN It was her knife. God ! 
A very short flash-back sequence of the murder of the actress. 
ANDY Whatever. It looked good. 
Another very short flash-back. We understand those short flash- backs come from Billy's mind reliving what she saw a couple of hours before. 
Karen, looking at Billy, seems to understand what's going on inside her sister's head, because she says to Andy : 
KAREN Shut up. 
More short flash-backs of the murder, and a close-up shot on Billy's face. She seems very disturbed. 
CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The janitor is patrolling the basement with his dog. He is carrying an electric torch. 
He checks a heavy metal door, which is closed. 
While he is checking the door, the dog runs away. 
The janitor looks around him. 
JANITOR Buka ! 
He is apparently calling his dog, but he gets no answer. He starts looking around. 
The chimney of the studio seen from the parking lot in a low-angle shot. A lot of black smoke is coming out of it, certainly from the incinerator. 
Lyosha is smoking on the ramp leading to the basement, and he, like the chimney, exhales a lot of smoke, but white one ! 
The door of the basement opens and Arkadi walks out. There seems to be a lot of smoke in the basement too. He coughs. Lyosha throws him a pack of cigarettes, which he catches. He spits, takes a cigarette out of the pack and lights it. Two cars are coming toward them. The fist one is a large black limousine. 
Lyosha picks up a small plastic bag. 
The cars stop near the ramp. Arkadi and Lyosha walk toward them. A man gets out of the front passenger door of the second car. He is Wartschuk, the Big Boss' first assistant. He closes the door and walks toward Lyosha and Arkadi. Lyosha gives him the plastic bag. The man says a few words in Russian and nods toward the limousine. He walks away, but Lyosha doesn't move. 
A man is sitting in the back of the limousine, his face hidden in the dark. He is called «The Reaper» and he is the famous «Big Boss» of the whole criminal organization, and consequently of Arkadi and Lyosha. 
THE REAPER Come closer, Mr. Hausmann. I won't bite. 
Lyosha starts walking slowly toward the car. THE REAPER (voice over) Did it go smoothly ? 
LYOSHA About the money... 
THE REAPER Did it go smoothly ? 
LYOSHA Yes, of course. No problem. 
The Reaper bends slightly, so his face appears in the light. 
THE REAPER Did it go smoothly, Mr. Hausmann ? 
LYOSHA We did our job. The condition was... 
THE REAPER The condition was that everything would go smoothly. 
LYOSHA Yes. Yes, and we have your diskette. 
THE REAPER And who informed the police ? 
LYOSHA American girl say something, but nobody believe her. 
THE REAPER As long as there are witnesses, there's no money. 
LYOSHA You mean ?... THE REAPER I think we understand each other, Mr. Hausmann. 
The Reaper winds his car window up. Then he sits back in his seat. 
Lyosha and Arkadi look at the two cars driving away. 
Lyosha gives a folded paper to Arkadi, who unfolds it. 
Close up shot on the paper. It shows Billy's address and telephone number. 
A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Low-angle shot on the buildings around the street. Then the camera tilts down to street level. Andy's car drives toward us and stops. Billy opens the back door and walks out of the car. Karen opens the driver's door and walks out. Both sisters close their doors. Billy starts walking toward her building and Karen follows her. 
KAREN No, honestly, you can come back to our place, and we'll set up the couch if you want. 
Andy has remained in the car. 
Billy answers her sister in sign language. 
KAREN You're not on one of your «I'll show her how independent I am» kicks, are you ? 
Andy has got out of the car and is watching the two sister, leaning on the roof of the car. 
ANDY Honey, you coming or what ? 
Billy waves to Andy and enters her building. Karen looks at her sister and then turns toward Andy. 
KAREN Andy, don't you care about her ? 
Andy looks offended by Karen's words. 
ANDY I don't care ? I don't care ? Fine, fine. I'm calling the American Embassy tonight, okay ? 
Billy has stopped near her building door and is looking at Karen and Andy's verbal fight. 
Close up shot on the gas flames of the water heater. 
Billy is getting ready to take a bath. She is just wearing a bath towel wrapped around her body. With her hand, she tests the temperature of the bath water. She pours some bubble-bath from a big bottle into the water. We hear the telephone ringing. Billy turns her head toward the living-room 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The apartment is a bit ancient-looking. It doesn't «look like» Billy. One can tell it is only a rented apartment for a short period. Various clothes are scattered around the room. 
Billy walks from the bathroom along the corridor to the living- room. The telephone keeps on ringing. 
The telephone and the special answering machine are set on a small table. Billy picks up the telephone handset and puts it on the machine. Then she sits down on a chair and puts a pair of earphone on her ears. Finally, she presses a button on the machine. 
Close up shot on the screen of the machine. It looks a bit like a computer screen. The machine offers the choice between different sentences : «Hello» «Hello this is Billy Hughes speaking» «I am using a digital voice computer» «Please have patience and I will answer» «My address is apartment 923 - 126 Kievsky Prospekt» «My telephone number is 9205910» etc. Billy chooses the second choice, using a ball-mat. Then she brings the arrow on an icon to start the machine. 
DIGITAL VOICE Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking. 
Momentarily, the scene is seen through a binocular, which makes us realize that Billy is been spied by someone. 
Billy, apparently getting no answer but a deep breathing noise, chooses the first choice. 
DIGITAL VOICE Hello. 
A shot on the large bay window makes us guess where the spy is hiding : somewhere across the street. DIGITAL VOICE Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking. 
Billy keeps on trying to get an answer. 
DIGITAL VOICE Hello. 
But she gets only a disconnection tone. She takes the earphone out of her ears, and puts them on the table. She looks at the window. 
Shot on the window, with a zoom on another window across the street. Behind that window, we see the figure of a man looking at Billy with binoculars. 
Billy seen through the «neighbor's» binoculars. She walks to the window and pull the drapes to hide the window. 
The «spy» sees the drapes being pulled through his binoculars. 
POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT The same men are still in the projection room. The first policeman has taken his cap off. And Larsen is now seated in a seat behind Lovett. 
FIRST POLICEMAN Have you seen a... how do you say... snuff film before ? 
LARSEN I saw a woman tied to a tree   kept alive while her arms and legs were cut off. It's hard   to talk about it, or even think about it. And it makes   you sick to watch it. You never forget the look in the   victim's eyes. The sheer panic and horror when they realize   they're about to die. 
Lovett looks very disturbed by what Larsen just told him. The technician knocks on the window between his cabin and the room. Larsen and Lovett turn around, and Larsen makes a sign to tell the technician to start the film. Then he takes a cigarette from the pack he left on his former seat. The room becomes dark and the projection starts. The four men watch the film which has no sound. 
On the screen of the projection room, we see the sequence when the young actress, pretending she is dying very slowly, breaks the whole set. 
Lovett and Larsen turn their head toward the cabin. 
POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION CABIN - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The technician is also watching the film through the window between the two rooms. When he sees Larsen looking at him, he shrugs to tell him that he is not responsible for what is shown on the screen. 
POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Larsen and Lovett turn back to watch the screen. On the screen, the sequence when the young actress is pulling the tablecloth away from the table, and also everything that was on the table. 
The two policemen are smiling because they find what they see on the screen quite funny. 
Lovett and Larsen do not smile, because they are disappointed. 
Now, on the screen, the actress is pulling the drapes down from the windows. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen, wearing her night-gown, is seated on the edge of the bed. We hear Andy talking into the telephone. 
ANDY (voice over) Yes, sir... No, sir. 
Andy is walking up and down in the next room, carrying the telephone set in his hand and with the handset on his ear. ANDY Right... Right... Right, sir. Right, sir. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So, I really appreciate the call. I'll give Dad your best. Right. 
He puts the phone down back on its hook. 
Karen has a worried look on her face. 
Billy is looking through the peephole on the door. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen is looking worried. 
KAREN Billy ? You be careful, now. Check who it is first. 
Karen's louder voice has awaken Andy, who sits up. 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is still looking through the peephole. 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LANDING OUTSIDE THE FRONT DOOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The landing, just outside Billy's apartment front door, is dark and empty. 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy, still looking in the peephole, moves her head from right to left, trying to see further on the landing. She slowly moves away from the door to a small table by the door. 
Close up shot on the table, and a business card lying on it. It is the first policeman's card. It says : «Police Inspector Vladimir Pekar - Precinct 22» and underneath an address and a telephone number. 
Billy is still standing near the door. She puts the safety chain on. And then she slowly opens the door. Arkadi appears behind the door. Billy tries to shut the door, but he puts his foot between the door and the wall. 
ARKADI Please. I want to talk. 
Desperately, Billy tries to push the door shut. 
Close up on the earphones on the machine keyboard. 
KAREN (voice over from the telephone) Billy ? 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen seems very excited. 
KAREN Billy, are you still there ? 
ANDY Would you leave her alone ? 
He lies back in the bed. 
KAREN I heard a noise, Andy. Something's happened. I swear. 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is trying to push the door shut. Arkadi has a big wire- cutter in his hand. He brings the cutter near the chain. Billy takes an umbrella from the stand near the door, and, with it, tries to prevent Arkadi from cutting the chain. Arkadi cuts the tip of the umbrella off. With her slippered foot, Billy kicks Arkadi's foot still jamming the door, but it doesn't move it off. Then she takes the heavy metal umbrella stand and hits Arkadi's foot with it. Arkadi removes his foot from the door. Billy can - at last - slam the door shut. She leans on it, panting. 
KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen is now very frightened. She yells in the phone. 
KAREN Billy ! 
She puts the phone down and stands up from the bed. 
KAREN Okay, that's it. I'm going there. 
Andy sits up on the bed. 
ANDY What ? 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Billy is still leaning on the door, panting. We hear the noise of an electric machine. Billy's eyes widen with horror. She rushes to the telephone, and starts typing frenetically. 
DIGITAL VOICE Karen, help. Call police. Emergency. 
Close up shot on the door lock. We can guess that Arkadi is trying to open the door with a power tool. 
Billy puts her earphone on. She hears the disconnection tone. She presses the disconnection switch on her own telephone. 
Close up shot on the door lock. One of the screws holding the lock pops off and falls on the floor. 
THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Wartschuk is answering the fake policeman on his own walkie- talkie. Next to him, his passenger is screwing a silencer on his gun. 
A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The street is empty at this time of the night, but for the two cars following each other. 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
LARSEN The girl had it when she went into the studio. Then she was murdered, and it was gone. Where is it ? Think. You were the only person there. 
Close up shot on Billy's face trying to think about the mysterious diskette. She has a short flashback of Arkadi taking the knife to murder the actress. Then another one of the naked actress lying on the bed. Then another one of the blood splattering the wall. Then another one of Arkadi stabbing the girl. 
LARSEN Think. 
Another short flashback of Billy going away from the   set. Then another one of Billy bumping into the hatstand. Then   another one of the girl's purse contents scattered on the floor.   Then another one of the diskette skidding on the floor and hiding   under the large wooden wardrobe. 
Billy grabs Larsen's shoulder. 
LARSEN Write. Write it. 
Billy takes a notepad and starts writing on it. But she is interrupted by a Russian voice coming from somewhere in the car. Larsen opens the glove compartment and takes a walkie-talkie out of it. He talks in Russian in the talkie. 
Billy looks at the pair of handcuffs in the glove compartment. 
Larsen puts the talkie back in the compartment. 
LARSEN Write it. 
They drive along a police station, but Larsen doesn't stop. Billy looks a bit worried all of sudden. 
LARSEN Quick, write. 
Billy shows the police station to Larsen. Then she writes «Police» on the notepad. 
LARSEN Police ? Yes. Yes, but only with the diskette. 
She writes «Why ?» on the notepad. 
LARSEN You know, I work undercover. The Reaper thinks I work for him. Trust me. Trust me. 
She grabs the steering-wheel to force Larsen to park the car. THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Through the car windshield, we see Larsen's car zigzagging on the street. The two passenger talks in Russian 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy is trying to force Larsen to stop the car. 
LARSEN Crazy ! 
THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Through the windshield, we see Larsen's car stopping near the sidewalk. The two men talk nervously in Russian. 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy hits Larsen violently on his private parts. Larsen moans. Billy takes the handcuffs out of the glove compartment and ties Larsen's hand on the steering-wheel. 
THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
The two men look at Larsen's parked car. They see the passenger door being opened. 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy opens the door and gets out of the car. 
LARSEN They'll kill you ! 
Billy shows him the handcuffs key. Then she slams the door. Larsen moves his hand nervously, but, of course, can't get it out of the handcuff. 
A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy looks at him, and hesitates on her next move. But she decides to climb in Larsen's car. 
The big black car is coming toward them. LARSEN Get in! 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy climbs into the back of the car and closes the door. 
A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The man reaches Larsen's car just as it drives away. The man remains on the sidewalk with a mean look on his face. The black limousine stops near him and he climbs inside. 
LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy looks through the rear windshield at the car following them. Larsen has a hard time driving with his hand tied on the steering wheel. 
LARSEN Please, give me the keys. 
Billy nods her head «No». Larsen gives her the notepad. 
LARSEN Write. Where is the diskette ? 
Billy looks at the following car. 
LARSEN We cannot escape in this car. Write. Write. 
Billy starts writing. Then she shows the note pad to Larsen, who reads it. 
LARSEN Studio. Where in the studio ? Billy makes a «No» with her finger. 
A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Larsen's car makes a left turn into another street. 
THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Through the windshield, we see Larsen's car turning into the adjacent street. Wartschuk speaks in his talkie. 
WARTSCHUK Delta three. 
BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT 
One of the fake policeman picks up his talkie from the table 
WARTSCHUK (voice over from the talkie) Delta three. 
The policeman answers «Da», then listen to Wartschuk speaking in Russian. He says «Da» again and a few more words. Karen and Andy look at him, with a worried look on their face. Wartschuk answers him. Apparently, Andy understood a few words, because he says : 
ANDY What ? 
The policeman drops the talkie on the table and talks to his colleague. 
ANDY What ? 
The other policeman walks near Andy and Karen, raising his gun. 
ANDY This is all a big misunderstanding and... Excuse me, but this is... 
The first policeman takes Andy's hands and cuffs them behind his back. 
ANDY You don't have to arrest us. Why is he arresting me ? This is ridiculous. I'm an American citizen. Do you understand what I'm saying ? Now, I'm a director. 
Karen turns her head and looks at the dead Lyosha. 
ANDY You know, I'm directing a movie here in Moscow. I'm bringing a lot of money in this place. 
The policemen don't seem to take any notice of what Andy is saying. One is still cuffing his hands while the other one is holding his gun. 
ANDY And my father, okay, he knows a lot of big people, and... Listen. 
The policeman raises Andy to his feet and moves him away from Karen. 
ANDY You want money ? Is that what you want ? 
KAREN Hel... 
ANDY Hello ? We need help ! 
The man starts talking rapidly in Russian. 
ANDY I'm a director, and I'm making a movie here. This is not a movie. 
The man hasn't stopped talking. Actually, he and Andy have been talking together. Now he yells something in Russian. Andy turns toward Karen. 
ANDY Put the gun away. You look like a hit man. He thinks we're gonna kill him ! 
Andy took the gun from Karen and now he is waving it at the man. 
KAREN We're not gonna kill you ! 
ANDY This is not even ours ! 
KAREN The policemen wanted to kill us ! 
The man turns around and runs out of the apartment, yelling in Russian. 
KAREN We gotta get out of here. 
ANDY Well, I think we should call the cops. 
KAREN Are you crazy ? 
ANDY Well, we can explain this. 
KAREN Explain ? You are crazy. Come on. Here. 
She has a gun in her hand and she gives him another gun. She runs out of the apartment. Andy takes the handcuffs from the table. 
ANDY I'll take these too. 
He follows Karen out of the apartment. 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Close shot on the entrance of the studio, where a plate says something in Russian and underneath : «Central Film Studio». 
Larsen's car enters the studio. It stops near the building. 
We see Billy and Larsen through the windshield. Larsen shows his handcuff to Billy. 
LARSEN And now ? Billy tries to get out of the car, but she can't open the back door. 
LARSEN Child locks. 
Billy gets the key out of her pocket and gives it to Larsen, who unlocks the handcuff. 
He gets out of the car and closes the door. He goes around the car to open Billy's door. As he is doing it, he sees car headlights coming his way. 
LARSEN Don't look now, but our friends are still here. 
They both runs toward the building. He opens a big metal door and they enter the building. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
This is the unused set, where Billy went, at the beginning of the story, when she found herself locked in. It has metal doors opening directly on the parking lot. 
Billy pulls the big bolt that locks the door from the inside. Then Larsen puts a padlock on the bolt. 
LARSEN I will block the other entrances. 
They both walk away. 
MOSCOW - A STREET NEAR RED SQUARE - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen's car is driving full speed toward The Red Square. When she takes a turn, the tires are screeching on the macadam and the car zigzags a little. 
KAREN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT. 
Wartschuk enters silently on the set. 
Larsen gets the diskette out of its hiding place. Billy picks it up. Behind her, Wartschuk has got his gun out. Billy stands up with the diskette in her hand. She smiles. Wartschuk grabs her from the back. She throws the diskette. Larsen catches it. 
LARSEN You helped us a lot, Billy. Thank you. 
Larsen puts discreetly the diskette in Wartschuk's pocket. WARTSCHUK The Reaper wants to meet the woman who has kept him up all night and witnessed a live snuff. 
He gives his gun to Larsen. 
WARTSCHUK He wants you to do it. 
LARSEN You know why we call him The Reaper ? You see his face, you die. 
Billy spits in Larsen's face. Then she yells silently, because Wartschuk is squeezing her a little tighter. Larsen wipes the spit from his face. Larsen raises his gun, holding it by the barrel. Billy looks very frightened, because she knows that Larsen is going to knock her out. But the butt of the gun lands violently... on Wartschuk's head, who screams and falls heavily on the floor. Billy looks from Larsen to the falling man, not understanding clearly what happened. 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR 
Andy is hiding behind a trash can. He looks up at the watcher on the balcony. He finally comes out of his hiding place, but bumps into a beer can lying on the ground. The watcher says something in Russian and points his flashlight toward Andy. 
ANDY Nice night, isn't it ? 
Karen is slowly going around the pile of empty film boxes on which Billy fell earlier. 
ANDY I'm just taking a piss. Right, you know, just... The watcher walks slowly down the ladder. Karen reaches the ladder, climbs on something we don't see, and catches the watcher's foot through the steps of the ladder. The man falls and rolls all the way down the ladder. He is unconscious and Andy ties his wrist to the ladder with the handcuff. Karen joins him. Andy seems very happy about the successful operation. 
The Reaper's black limousine is entering the parking lot. 
Karen, who has started to go up the steps of the ladder, looks at the limousine. 
KAREN Who the hell is that ? 
ANDY Well, whoever it is, they're coming here. 
They reach the balcony and enter the building. 
The Reaper's car is driving toward the building, with all the men, equipped with machine guns, watching his arrival. CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen and Andy are running along the long corridor. Andy is still trying to work out the safety of his gun. 
ANDY I can't work the safety. 
KAREN Andy, come on. 
ANDY Yeah, yeah, I'm coming. 
He falls down, dropping all the bullets on the floor. 
KAREN Hurry ! 
Andy picks up his bullets, stands up and runs after Karen. 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The Reaper's car is still surrounded by all the guards in arms. 
We see only the shadow of The Reaper inside his car. 
THE REAPER Where is she, Larsen ? 
We guess he is talking into a walkie-talkie. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
This is the unused film set, with large metal doors opening on the parking lot Karen enters the gallery above the room, followed by Andy. She bends down, and makes him bend down. 
THE REAPER (voice over from the talkie) Larsen, are you reading me ? 
KAREN (whispering) Somebody's coming. 
ANDY (whispering) I'm waiting. 
Down below, on the set itself, Billy is walking, with Larsen behind her, pointing a gun in her back. 
Through the half-open door, Larsen shows The Reaper the diskette he has found on the set. 
The Reaper smiles. The big metal door closes as Larsen goes back inside. 
All the men go back inside their cars. The engines start. And the cars start driving out, The Reaper's car being the first one to go. Billy is still lying motionless on the ground, her blood flowing slowly on the tarmac. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Karen is in Andy's arms, crying. 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
The last cars are leaving the parking lot. 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT 
Andy, with Karen crying on his laps, looks at Larsen coming back in and closing the door. 
LARSEN Now please, let me explain. Please ? 
KAREN (yelling) Explain ? 
She rushes out of Andy's arms and bumps violently into Larsen. 
ANDY Karen ! 
They both fall on the floor, and Larsen's gun flies away from his hand. Karen hits Larsen very hard with both her fists. Andy picks up the gun and points it at Larsen. Larsen pushes Karen away from him. Karen takes the legs of a statue and hits Larsen with it. Then she grabs Larsen by the ears and throws him on the metal door. She turns toward Andy. 
KAREN Kill him. 
Karen opens the door and walks out. CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Billy, still lying on the ground, opens one eye and smiles. 
Karen runs out of the building and rushes toward her sister, who stands up when she sees her. Karen stops and looks at her. Karen sits up and raises her sweatshirt. 
Underneath, she is equipped with the special effect system she uses to pretend people are being shot. Little bags, full of fake blood, explode one by one, tearing the piece of clothing in front of them, and pouring the blood through the fabric. For the spectator, it does looks like bullet going through a body and blood spurting out. 
Karen rushes to Billy and hugs her. 
KAREN You genius ! 
CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT Larsen is still kneeling on the floor. Andy is pointing the gun at him, trying to look mean, which is a bit hard for him. 
ANDY You thought we were tourists, huh ? Guess again, pal. 
Larsen is slowly getting up. 
ANDY Don't move. Don't move! I'm talking to you ! 
He shoots the gun to the ceiling. 
ANDY I'm warning you. Don't move or I'm gonna shoot you ! Okay ! 
He shoots at Larsen, who doesn't react and walks closer to him. He shoots twice more, walking backward. He bumps into a prop and falls down on his back... next to Wartschuk, all tied up and with a large piece of tape across his mouth. Wartschuk moans, Andy screams and gets quickly up. He rushes out of the building while Larsen is trying to get over what just happened to him 
CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT 
Andy rushes out of the building and sees Karen cleaning Billy's face. 
ANDY Billy ! Billy ! Billy ! 
KAREN She's okay. She's fine. 
ANDY She's fine ? She's okay ? Billy mouth the words «I'm fine» and shows him the special effect device on her stomach. Larsen comes behind her and takes her by the shoulder, saying a few words in Russian. Billy says something in sign language to Karen. 
KAREN A cop ? 
ANDY A cop ? 
KAREN Oh, my God, I'm sorry. 
ANDY Sorry. 
