M Y   B E S T   F R I E N D ' S   W E D D I N G 
by Ronald Bass First Draft Screenplay 
INT.  BOULEY RESTAURANT, NEW YORK - NIGHT 
Dim lighting, crowd buzz, a long line of the rich, the celebrated, the congenitally impatient.  Everyone in this queue holds a reservation at least an hour overdue.  Tourists can't even make the line.  PAN ahead to... 
... the burnished dining room, the tables of power, the elegant service.  Covertly, many eyes are drawn to the one table receiving by far the most lavish service of all.  Captains hover, presenting delicacies, pouring wines, murmuring obsequiously to a guest whose person they screen from our view.  We can see, however... 
... the honored guest's companion.  Ignored, bemused, across the table.  This is DIGGER DOWNES, 36, darkly attractive.  Kind eyes, an intellectual's mouth, Saville Row's most unobtrusive and conservative chalk-stripe suit.  He is gay, but you wouldn't guess it.  Loyal and wise and generous, and you might.  He watches with a quiet twinkle, as the Captains now step back, revealing to us... 
... their most unlikely icon.  JULIANNE POTTER, almost 28, wears her favorite bulky sweater over a bunch of other stuff she pulled together in fifteen seconds.  She is unkempt, quick, volatile, scattered, and beneath it all, perhaps because of it all, an original beauty.  Dark liquid eyes, a cynical mouth, slender expressive fingers, which point to... 
CAPTAIN A variation on our squid ink risotto.  Trace of Moselle, to sweeten the stock. 
She doesn't like that idea at all.  Shoots him a sharp look of doubt that makes him smile.  Murmur... 
CAPTAIN Don't kill us on this one, it's a long shot. 
Places the moist lump of black rice before her.  She takes a surprisingly small amount, rolls it over her tongue.  Makes dead flat eye contact with Digger.  And nods, it's actually quite nice. The Captain breathes with relief.  She turns her dark eyes to him. The tone says they're pals... 
JULIANNE I'm writing it up as inventive and confident.  Which it is.  Off the record, I'll need an extra boat of the ink.  Or a salt shaker. 
CAPTAIN I'll toss a coin. 
As the Captain splits, Digger looks around at the other tables, which makes many pairs of eyes awkwardly glace away. 
DIGGER Is it ever embarrassing, having your bum kissed in public? 
JULIANNE If your ass isn't chapped, you are not a good-writer of note. 
She glances at her two remaining waiters, who shamelessly fawn nearby. 
JULIANNE Is it sad to be an editor, and bask only in reflected insincerity? 
DIGGER I've adjusted, and thanks for asking. 
She leans forward, as if sharing something conspiratorial. 
JULIANNE See the pull of a book like Twenty Chefs, is not who I put in.  It's who I leave out. 
DIGGER Which is everyone you couldn't get in. 
JULIANNE Plus some guys whose food I don't like. 
Pushes the risotte across to him.  He lifts a fork. 
DIGGER This fellow from Newsday ever call? 
She shrugs.  Pulls a cellular out of a large, jumbled bag. 
JULIANNE I'll buzz my machine.  Inventive and confident, yeh? 
She dials.  He tastes. 
DIGGER Needs salt. 
JULIANNE Is Newsday a real interview, or just some cute guy you're setting me up w... 
DIGGER ... I don't send you men, anymore. You don't know what to do with them. 
She's punching in her code. 
JULIANNE Sometimes I do.  Like for two months. 
DIGGER ... weeks. 
Over the phone, we hear her answering machine... 
MAN'S VOICE (V.O., soft) Hey.  It's Michael. 
And her face changes.  Warms.  Just to hear the guileless voice. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) God, it must be, what, months, huh? I can't wait to talk to you.  I'm in Chicago at the Ritz Carlton... 
She looks impressed and surprised.  Fancy place for this guy. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) Call me four in the morning, whatever, we gotta talk. 
As she hangs up.  She still has that look in her eye.  Digger has never seen that, and he likes it very much. 
DIGGER Who called? The man of the moment? 
She smiles.  A sweet, natural smile that makes us like her, too. The Bohemian sophisticate has vanished. 
JULIANNE No, no, the opposite.  That's my best friend, Michael O'Neal. He sounds desperate to talk. 
DIGGER The wandering sportswriter. 
He pushes the risotto back her way. 
DIGGER I didn't know you two had a past. 
Her gaze sharpens.  Hmmn? 
DIGGER The look in your eye. 
She blushes.  Shakes her head, no way. 
JULIANNE Sophomore year at Yale we had this one hot month.  And, you know me, I got restless... 
He knows her.  She got restless. 
JULIANNE So I get up the nerve to break his heart.  I tell him there's this dreamy exchange student from Pakistan who wants to, you know... 
DIGGER We're about to find out. 
Ink is now dribbling out of the black hole of her mouth and down her face.  She absently dabs a napkin, keeping some of it from reaching her sweater. 
JULIANNE When I turn him down... 
She realizes the full weight of the truth. 
JULIANNE We'll never be the same. 
DIGGER I have a suggestion... 
JULIANNE I'll have to kill myself before I call him. 
Staring in each other's eyes. 
DIGGER (sadly) That was it. 
INT. JULIANNE'S BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Julianne furiously scrubs her blackened tongue with a toothbrush. Gray foam pours from her mouth, spattering the oversized basketball jersey she wears as a nightshirt.  In the mirror, her troubled eyes dwell on Michael, flick to the cordless phone standing ominously on the closed toilet lid. 
She spits, sticks her tongue way out.  Incredibly black.  Great. Depressed, terrified, and disfigured for life.  She snatches up the hated phone, and wanders aimlessly into... 
... her bedroom.  West Village view.  Defiantly jumbled, aggres- sively eclectic.  Traces of wonderful taste mixed with I-like-it- you-got-a-problem-with-that? She stumbles around, rehearsing... 
JULIANNE This is awkward timing, Michael, I just joined this convent, and they never give your deposit ba... 
Stops.  Full-length mirror.  She straightens her hair, to look her best. 
JULIANNE Michael, I'm married. 
Not enough. 
JULIANNE ... and I have two weeks to live. 
Changes tone... 
JULIANNE Michael, I'm trying to be gay, don't confuse me. 
She turns to continue pacing, and walks straight INTO a dresser. Stuns her, momentarily.  Enough, already! She punches up the number, primping absently in the mirror.  When it connects... 
JULIANNE I was calling Michael O'Neal, but seeing it's so late, I could just leave a mes... 
No such luck.  Cut off.  Waits.  And then... 
JULIANNE (soft) Good evening, sir.  You've been enrolled in the Obscene Call Of The Month Club, and th... 
MICHAEL (V.O.) Hey! God, it's so good to hear your voice. 
She forgets herself.  Because it's good to hear his, too. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) I've been calling for days! 
JULIANNE Yeh, well my old machine kept eating messages.  I tried constructively ignoring it in hopes of improvement, but finally... 
MICHAEL (V.O., urgent) Look, I have to ask you something. 
She swallows. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) Something so incredibly important, that if you turn me down, I don't know what I'll d... 
JULIANNE (bright) I just have to tell you this one thing first, okay? I mean this will hand you the biggest laugh of your adult life... 
Silence.  Come on girl, suck it up. 
JULIANNE I was thinking about you, and I remembered this unbelievably insane night we spent together in Tucson, like a thousand years ago? 
More silence.  Really quiet. 
JULIANNE I mean, there's no way you could possibly remember the... 
MICHAEL (V.O., soft) Are you kidding? 
Stops her.  Like a brick wall.  The sweetness in his voice. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) I think about that night all the time. 
She's going to have a heart attack. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) But it's not why I called. 
She blinks.  It's not.  And just as a tsunami of relief begins to sweep away... 
MICHAEL (V.O.) I called because I met someone. 
And her smiles breaks off.  Like a spine snapping.  Because there is something in his voice. 
JULIANNE Well, that's great.  You haven't really had anybody since Dingbat Jennylee... 
MICHAEL (V.O.) You don't understand.  I've never felt this way about anybody! 
Never.  She sits down, hard.  Right on the floor. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) And she's all wrong for me! 
JULIANNE Well, somet... 
MICHAEL (V.O.) I mean she's a junior at Chicago University, she's twenty years old! Like when I first met you. 
Like when.  Julianne's mouth is suddenly dry. 
MICHAEL (V.O.) And her dad is like this billionaire who owns the White Sox and some cable empire, and you know how I've always been miserably awkward around those kinda stuffed suits... 
She's finally making her mouth work... 
Tears now.  Stand in her eyes. 
JULIANNE I'm making a big mistake, huh? 
DIGGER (shrugs) Maybe you'll learn something. 
He wraps his hand over hers.  She looks down at it. 
JULIANNE I'm gonna bring him back, man. Against all odds, y'know.  Cos if I don't... 
She wraps her fingers around his. 
JULIANNE ... I gotta live with it forever. 
Looks in his eyes. 
JULIANNE And at my wedding.  I'll be the only bride with her own best man. 
And she kisses his cheek. 
Jumps out of his car.  Before she cries.  Yanks her bags from the back.  Brave smile. 
They trade small salutes.  And then she's gone. 
INT.  O'HARA AIRPORT, CHICAGO - MORNING 
The jetway disgorging passengers into the swarming ant colony called O'Hare.  Julianne lugging multiple carry-ons, trying to pull fly-away strands of hair into place, nervous as a schoolgirl, looking all around, and... 
... there he is.  MICHAEL is tall and square-shouldered, a boyish grin, an unruly shock of hair.  He looks gorgeous, sweet, and just dangerous enough to be irresistible.  Worthwhile stakes.  His face lights to see her, and she... 
... RUNS to his arms, shedding bags along the way, slamming off heedless civilians, to be... 
... SWEPT OFF the earth in strong arms, spun around, laughing like crazy, their cheeks tight together.  When he sets her down... 
... he kisses her nose.  His arms are still around her. 
MICHAEL (murmurs) Can you believe it? Can you believe I'm actually gonna do this? 
JULIANNE (lost in his eyes) Not hardly. 
He beams.  Turns.  She follows his gaze, and... 
... there she is.  KIMBERLY WALLACE is 20, small and slender, but it is a body to die for.  The face is striking, not at all perky and vapid, but lovely and interesting.  Worst of all, intelligent. 
She walks toward them purposefully, her eyes locked to the woman in her fiancee's arms.  At the last moment, Michael releases Julianne and Kimmy... 
... THROWS her arms around the startled visitor.  HOLDS her tight, with such genuine warmth that Julianne can only, slowly, hug back. As Michael beams. 
KIMMY This just makes everything so perfect. 
Her arms stay around the slightly dazed Julianne.  The younger girl leans close, confides... 
KIMMY All I've heard, from the day I met Michael, is Julianne this, and Julianne that... 
JULIANNE Well, we're... 
KIMMY I think the best part of marrying this guy is finding you. 
Pale gray eyes.  Alive with joy and intimacy. 
KIMMY I've never had a sister. 
INT.  KIMMY'S CONVERTIBLE - DAY 
Kimmy TEARING down the throughway in her Mercedes 500 SL, a dashing, confident driver.  Julianne riding shotgun, hair flying, a total wreck, in the open convertible.  Michael is happily crouched on the little platform behind their seats, hugging his knees.  The roar of the wind makes it impossible for him to hear them. 
KIMMY My heart's in my throat, here. Right off, I have to ask this monstrous favor... 
JULIANNE You need a few dollars. 
Kim glances over.  At eighty miles an hour.  A bittersweet look. 
KIMMY Dry.  Just like he said. 
Her eyes at once admiring and regretful. 
JULIANNE Excuse me? 
KIMMY I can be quick.  I can even be funny. 
Shakes her head.  An endearing youngster. 
KIMMY But I can't be dry. 
JULIANNE Can you watch the road? 
KIMMY See.  Dry.  It's in the delivery. 
She looks back to the highway. 
KIMMY This is a very presumptuous and burdensome fav... 
JULIANNE ... you want a menage on your wedding night. 
KIMMY (straight back) No, that wouldn't be burdensome. 
Julianne studying the delicate, angular profile.  Hard not to like this kid. 
KIMMY My classmate Angelique shattered her pelvis line dancing in Abeline on Spring Break. 
Looks over.  The sweetest smile. 
KIMMY Be my maid of honor. 
Julianne just blinks. 
KIMMY Other than that... 
Closed SOLID.  Gone. 
INT.  DRESSING ROOM - LATER 
Julianne sits on the loveseat in her bra and panties, lighting one cigarette from the butt of another.  Suddenly, she hears... 
... an ARGUMENT outside the door.  Strains to listen.  It does sound like Michael and Kim.  We can't make out the words.  She jumps up, dashes for the door, STUBBING her toe on the platform, SHIT!, falls heavily AGAINST the door with a THUD that makes her wince, and... 
... the argument stops.  Damn.  She opens the door a crack.  Sees nothing.  Opens it wider to reveal... 
... a teenaged BOY looking right at her.  He sends a true shit- eating grin and she SLAMS the door hard enough to RATTLE walls. 
She PACES furiously, helplessly, arms around her half-naked self, until... 
... soft knock.  The door opens a crack, and her daffodil gown comes through it. 
JULIANNE Come in, and shut the... 
Stops.  Because it's Michael who has entered.  With the dress. 
JULIANNE ... door. 
So he does.  She flushes and SNATCHES up her own clothes, which were characteristically tangled in a heap, and tries desperately to untangle them enough to cover herself.  He is amazed and amused by her embarrassment. 
MICHAEL (laughing) Should I turn around, or someth... 
JULIANNE Michael, I'm in my underwear! 
She's TEARING at her clothes, only making more of a mess. 
MICHAEL We've seen each other a lot more naked than this. 
She seems ready to rip her clothes apart, so he gently takes them from her hands.  She tries to stand unselfconsciously as he easily untangles them. 
MICHAEL I mean, we were skinny-dipping in Greece, just as pals, less than two years ago. 
She GRABS the clothes and covers the front of herself.  Looking at him with a mix of emotions she couldn't begin to sort out. 
JULIANNE Things are different now. 
He looks in her eyes.  And nods, a little sadly.  Guess they are. 
MICHAEL (softly) Well.  I leave with two thoughts in my mind. 
He walks to the door.  Puts his hand on the latch.  Looks back... 
MICHAEL (even softer) You're still a very pretty girl. 
The look holds.  And holds.  There is such feeling on both sides, she doesn't know what to make of it.  She swallows. 
JULIANNE What's the sec... 
MICHAEL Mirrors. 
And he's gone.  She looks around at six different VIEWS of her uncovered backside.  Hmm. 
INT.  HOTEL UNDERGROUND GARAGE - DAY 
The parking valets wait by their stand as the convertible pulls up. These girls must be late for something, the way they're jumping out of the car. 
JULIANNE ... luckiest guy in the Northern Fucking Hemisphere, is all I'm s... 
KIMMY What? Because I'm a little understand... 
JULIANNE ... most sentimental schmucks I pity want a honeymoon after their wedding.  Just to top it off. 
The valet gives Kimmy her ticket. 
KIMMY I can't expect the NBA to hold up the playoffs... 
They're walking fast toward the garage elevators... 
KIMMY I'm excited Sports Illustrated gave him this kind of shot, he's only there a ye... 
JULIANNE So your honeymoon is exactly where? 
Well... 
KIMMY It depends.  If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento, we could start there. Or Phoenix.  Or depending on Indiana- Clevel... 
JULIANNE ... garden sports, all.  Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit... 
At the elevator.  Kimmy SLAMS the button. 
KIMMY It's his career, I'm supportive. Look, I've been everywhere, I've seen the world, I've laid on a beach. I want to be with the man I love. That's what makes it a honeymoon. 
End of story.  Okay? 
JULIANNE I'm just saying he's lucky. 
An empty elevator arrives.  They get in. 
JULIANNE Takes one woman in a billion to put up with his array of shit. The guy is a one-man festival of idiosync... 
Kimmy SLAMS the penthouse button.  Looks at her calmly.  Go on. 
JULIANNE Well.  You've been introduced to the symphonic range of... 
KIMMY ... his snoring, yeah.  He says it's worse than ever.  That snaffle one...? 
Julianne imitates an incredibly annoying high-pitched SNARL.  Three times.  Kimmy nods. 
KIMMY Well now it has this sorta phlegm rattle behind it... 
... two identical stunning YOUNG WOMEN, serving as twin hostesses for the shower.  A beat of mutually-stupefied looks, and we hear the shoe CRASH somewhere, to a small spattering of SHRIEKS. 
MANDY Mah Gawd, it's the bride, and the woman she'll nevah live up to! 
KIMMY (mutters to Julianne) That would be us. 
SAMMY Did she say th' wrong thang agin? It is so in character! 
AMANDA and SAMANTHA NEWHOUSE, 19-year-old twins.  True Southern belles, with the faces of angels and bodies made for hot oil wrestling.  Mandy's hair is dyed ash blonde, Sammy's is amber. Otherwise, the experience is similar. 
JULIANNE (thrusts out her hand) I'm Julianne Potter, and... 
SAMMY ... we'd be the vengeful sluts. We came in complementary colors. 
MANDY Have you sized up the groomsmen, Jules?  As M. of H., you get first fuck.  Don't pick the short, hairy, rich one. 
JULIANNE ... unless he has a hump. 
The girls cast identical blank looks at Kimberly. 
KIMMY (to the sluts) Dry.  I told you. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (V.O.) Is this Michael's Julianne? 
All eyes turn to an elegant woman of barely 40.  She has her daughter's hair and eyes and slender form.  But the bearing rules half an empire.  Fonda would envy. 
ISABELLE I'm Isabelle Wallace, and my handsome new son scarcely did you justice, girl. 
She takes both of Julianne's hands, and our heroine is sort of magically charmed.  As if touched by Glinda the Good Witch of the North. 
ISABELLE Now, my husband says to scoot you over to the ballpark, so you can hang with Michael.  But first, you have to meet a lot of really old women. 
Looking warmly in her eyes... 
ISABELLE That is, if you've absorbed enough profanity. 
Flicks a glance at the twins.  Leads Julianne off... 
MANDY (O.S., pouting) We sayed one fuck. 
INT.  TAXI, SOUTH SIDE - DAY 
Cab crawling toward COMISKEY PARK through stifling traffic. Julianne oblivious, cellular to her ear... 
JULIANNE Desperate measures! Do you hear me?  Digger, are you the... 
SQUAWK.  Static.  Then... 
JULIANNE I don't know, hit men, whoopee cushions, saltpeter, something! The girl is impossibly impregnable. Even I want her to get the guy!! 
Listens. 
JULIANNE Tell him the what? The truth...?? 
She shakes her head.  What a guy. 
JULIANNE That desperate.  May I never get. 
INT.  LUXURY BOX, COMISKEY PARK - AFTERNOON 
Game in progress.  Watched by Michael, three groomsmen his age, two middle-aged men, and one bodyguard.  Suddenly, a dull THUMPING at the door.  It keeps up.  They finally all look over.  The bodyguard gets the door, revealing... 
JULIANNE Which of you gents ordered two beers? 
One single tray.  Holding fourteen beers.  Balancing on one hand. Michael JUMPS UP, terrified at the impending mayhem this sight suggests... 
MICHAEL Wow!  Lemme give you a ha... 
JULIANNE (sweetly) Michael.  You'll unwittingly imply that I'm clumsy. 
He stops in his tracks.  The guys whistle. 
MICHAEL Think of that.  And as well as I know you. 
She goes first to the bodyguard. 
BODYGUARD Sorry, ma'am, I'm on duty. 
JULIANNE (lovely smile) It's Miss.  And thanks.  That leaves two for me. 
Heads down the row... 
MICHAEL Julianne Potter, this is Hank and Gerry from SI, and you know Daniel... 
She's nodding, flawlessly plucking two beers each from perimeter of the tray, keeping the rest perfectly balanced in the center. Michael is flat dumbstruck.  Next, a tall patrician gentleman with rolled-up sleeves on his hand-stitched silk shirt... 
MICHAEL Oh.  This is my father-in-law, Walter. 
Once again, she gracefully plucks two beers for the distinguished father-in-law... 
MICHAEL How are you doing this? You're on drugs. 
Sets them down.  The man has a smile wonderful in its ease. Murmurs... 
WALTER If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show. 
JULIANNE I guess getting him whacked would be politically out of the question. 
WALTER Under the circumstances.  Charmed to know you, Jules. 
JULIANNE Nice meeting you, too, Walt. 
A nod between equals.  She moves on... 
MICHAEL And, this guy, you know... 
JAMS it in her mouth, brushing as... 
JULIANNE (mouthful) ... or even, maybe, their fax. 
Stops.  The funniest look on her face.  Down to the toothpaste tube... 
Which says BEN GAY. 
Oh. 
INT.  TIFFANY'S - MORNING 
Julianne and Kimmy cruise the stately display cases.  Everywhere, the Tiffany logo, the silent, watchful staff in morning coats.  As they browse, Julianne takes a blueberry Danish from a paper sack, and begins to eat. 
The staff notices.  So does Kim. 
JULIANNE It's an homage thing. 
Hmm? 
JULIANNE Awkward girls grow up on Audrey Hepburn movies.  You wouldn't understand. 
Kimmy doesn't.  But wipes a blue glob from Julianne's face. 
KIMMY Anyway, I think you're wrong. 
Wrong? 
KIMMY What you were saying before. 
Before? 
KIMMY About Michael's job. 
JULIANNE Oh, that.  I forgot I even said th... 
KIMMY I just think you're wrong, is all. 
JULIANNE Probably am.  Forget I brought it up. 
Points to some jade pins.  Kimmy wrinkles her nose. 
KIMMY I mean, he loves his job. 
JULIANNE Bad games, bad towns, bad pay, bad flights, bad hotels, real bad food. Homeless, rootless, lonely, maybe your copy gets into one issue out of four... 
Smiles. 
JULIANNE What's not to love? 
None of this is lost on Kimmy.  She's wondered the same. 
KIMMY But he always says... 
JULIANNE ... whatever is manly and independent. 
Kim nods slowly.  Way ahead of her. 
JULIANNE Why would he trade that for running, say, a big piece of the PR at a powerful, complex, challenging conglomerate like your dad's? 
Kim stares back.  A strange look. 
KIMMY That's just the sort of thing my father and I discussed. 
Julianne just blinks.  Amazed. 
JULIANNE I'm not stupid.  Say, how about this? 
Pointing to tiny golden scissors in the novelty case.  Kim so absorbed by the main topic, she has to force herself to focus on... 
KIMMY For the twins? What in the world is th... 
JULIANNE Gold nose hair clippers. 
Points to the tiny hand-lettered sign.  Indeed.  Kimmy shrugs, not quite it. 
KIMMY So you don't think Michael's as happy with his job as... 
Julianne points to a matched pair of large... 
KIMMY Gold dog collars? They don't have dogs. 
JULIANNE Hello. 
Kim nods, oh.  But can't keep her mind off... 
KIMMY You think he'd accept? 
Hmm? 
KIMMY Michael.  A job like that. 
Oh, well... 
JULIANNE By any yardstick that involves sanity, it would be the greatest thing that ever happened to him. Present company excepted. 
Kimmy nodding slowly.  Her yearing achingly apparent. 
JULIANNE On the other hand, he's proud. Last thing a man wants to admit, is being trapped in a dispiriting dead-end job that can never support a family. 
A very sweet smile. 
JULIANNE Throw a man a life preserver. He'll say, "Thanks, anyway, I'd rather drown." 
Kim nods again.  Right.  They are so bonded at this moment. 
MAITRE D' It's unofficial, of course.  But, traditionally, the humidor is for gentlemen, only... 
JULIANNE Great.  I've got this girlfriend at the Justice Department?  With all this time on her hands? 
Her look is every bit as hard as his.  He gestures to the escalator.  She takes Kimmy's hand, and up they go.  We can see Walter in a big leather chair, enjoying a major stogie.  Kimmy licks her lips. 
They enter.  Every head turns.  A nice range of reactions, from offended to attracted and points in between. 
JULIANNE (murmurs) Piece of cake.  I'll hang, and think happy thoughts... 
Kimmy nods.  Heads over toward her father.  Julianne walks, confidently, even provocatively, to the wall lined with bins of cigars.  Every eye in the place is on her butt. 
She runs her fingers over a few contenders.  Plucks one out, examines it, puts it back.  Walks a little farther.  Selects another, big and black.  Rolls it expertly in her fingers.  Sniffs along its length. 
A guy comes over.  Could be 40, successful, a broker's pin-stripe. Nearly as attractive as he thinks he is. 
GUY Know what you're looking for, little lady? 
Little lady, huh? She glances at his coven of buddies, who pretend not to notice.  Then, straight to the guy's blue eyes. 
JULIANNE Yeah.  Do you? 
GUY I asked first. 
Ah.  Wit.  She holds up her cigar... 
JULIANNE I like 'em long and hard.  Kind of... big around. 
Runs it under her nose. 
JULIANNE Smell is important, I'm a believer in that. 
Takes a match from a cut crystal bowl. 
JULIANNE But you never know what you've got.  Till you run your tongue over it. 
And she does.  Moistening the full length of the cigar.  The boys are laughing openly.  She STRIKES the match.  As she lights up... 
GUY I meant.  What you're looking for in a man. 
She glances at his wedding ring.  Then, straight into his eyes. 
JULIANNE Actually, I'm partial to married gentlemen. 
The way she says that.  The guy swallows.  We can see some of the air has been sucked from the room. 
GUY Why is that? 
JULIANNE It's so much time.  When I phone the wives. 
Explosive LAUGHTER from the peanut gallery.  As she jams the big Clemente Churchill into her mouth, she sees Kimmy waving her over from across the room.  Without even looking at the guy she's just put away... 
... she crosses the room, Walter stands politely, looking very dapper, very powerful, and focusing on her with considerable interest.  He waits until she sits on the edge of a costly leather hassock. 
WALTER (simply) Your idea? 
She can't read this guy.  Maybe that's how he built an empire.  She nods, yeah. 
WALTER You're a woman of insight. 
He sits on the arm of his chair.  Close enough to speak quietly. 
WALTER My wife and I love this marriage, and deplore its circumstances. 
He puffs his cigar.  Julianne puffs her.  Kimmy looks on, a kid watching the grown-ups... 
WALTER As you guessed, my daughter is unhappy about giving up her life. And, in my opinion, cowardly in avoiding the necessary confrontation. 
Then he stops.  As if reading Julianne's eyes. 
WALTER Mike has a world of ability. I'd do anything to have him in my company. 
One more puff. 
WALTER Except ask him. 
Julianne is a little stunned.  Kimmy looks helpless. 
WALTER He'd resent it.  And me.  And, most important, Kim. 
No smile on his lips.  Straight talk. 
WALTER He's a great kid, but he's still a kid.  Instead of recognizing that his resistance comes from insecurity, he'd turn it to anger. To protect himself... 
Spreads his hands... 
WALTER ... from realizing that he's ignoring my daughter's needs, despite how very much he loves her. 
He looks to his daughter now. 
WALTER They both have some growing up to do.  But they're good people, they're starting with love. They've got time. 
JULIANNE (softly) I think you're making a mistake, sir. 
His eyes come back to her.  A little sharply. 
WALTER And that interests me.  How someone who knows him so well could be so wrong. 
A formidable guy.  She meets his gaze. 
JULIANNE See, I love him, too, as much as anyone here.  And for a whole lot longer. 
From her heart. 
JULIANNE I think I know best what would make him happy. 
Julianne in T-shirt and shorts, rushes onto the deck of a sprawling beach club.  Clutching her bag, she quickly surveys the scene... 
... the entire beach has been taken over by the wedding party. Young folks, old folks, little kids, maybe 200 people.  We SCAN with her to find a crowd around... 
... a three-on-three volleyball game.  Kimmy and two groomsmen on one side, facing Michael and the Tennessee debs.  The twins wear spectacular bikinis and are surprisingly athletic, as well as predictably uninhabited.  As the next point begins, Kimmy serves... 
... Sammy in back makes a nice dig, lobbing to Mandy who sets for Michael's vicious SPIKE straight THROUGH his best man's hapless defense.  The crowd cheers Michael, and as he turns, Mandy gives him a savage... 
... CHEST BUMP of congratulation, that any NFL linebacker would be proud of.  It puts the surprised Michael straight on his butt. Laughter, applause.  The twins pull him up and Sammy gives him a hot kiss on his ear that makes the crowd react.  Kim plays good sport.  Julianne watches Michael's body for a beat, then... 
... dashes off.  Down the beach, several barbecue grills have been set up.  Manned by beach club staff and family alike.  Michael's pop, Joe, is dispensing beers from a keg.  Kim's mom, Isabelle, is coordinating the beans, potato salad and corn-on-the-cob table. Julianne races across the sand to... 
... a huge smoky grill where Walter is basting baby back ribs, clearly enjoying himself.  Julianne runs up to him, says something into his ear.  He looks at her.  Then turns his station over to a club steward, and follows Julianne down toward the lakeside. 
CLOSE now.  As they stroll together, she's a little breathless. He's watching her profile, curious, silent.  At the water's edge... 
JULIANNE (whispers) Is anybody watching? 
WALTER I hope so.  This is all too mysterious to waste on just me. 
She reaches into her big bag.  Pulls out a single folded sheet of paper. 
JULIANNE I picked up Michael's messages for him, at our hotel.  I stole one... 
His face darkens.  The easy smile fades.  He holds up his palms... 
WALTER Julianne, reading my son-in-law's mail, is not something... 
JULIANNE Sir, this is important! Haven't you ever in your life cut one corner, to make something important turn out right? 
His smile returns.  Just a little. 
WALTER Matter of fact, that's how I got married. 
The look holds.  She thrusts the paper out.  He still doesn't take it. 
JULIANNE It's a fax from Sports Illustrated from Ben Isaacson, Michael's boss. 
WALTER (quickly) I know Ben. 
She opens the paper. 
JULIANNE "Mike.  We still have no answer to our E-mail of Wednesday.  Which option do you select? I don't mean to rush you, but Personnel needs to tie up the loose ends." 
He takes the paper.  We see it now.  Looks authentic. 
JULIANNE I think he's been fired. 
WALTER It doesn't say th... 
JULIANNE He's said some things over the past few weeks.  Look, this is why I came up with the idea of you offering him a job. 
He looks up.  He's listening.  Closely. 
JULIANNE And why I couldn't say anything before in front of Kim. 
She bites her lip.  Seems so earnest. 
JULIANNE I just think of how... desperate he must be feeling.  He's marrying a rich man's daughter, and he's about to become destitute.  You know the kind of job market he'll be facing? 
He does. 
WALTER And you think he's kept this to himself. 
JULIANNE He's too proud to beg for help. And if you wait till this comes out, your offer will be like charity. Completely humiliating. 
He's staring at her.  But his mind is working behind his eyes. 
JULIANNE If you do it now, it's like he's helping you.  He can accept with dignity. 
He taps the paper with the back of his knuckles. 
WALTER This fax could mean... any number of things... 
She nods.  She knows that. 
WALTER (softly) Maybe.  I should call Ben. 
JULIANNE Then it could all come out, sooner or later.  Nobody should be in on this.  Just you and me.  Or, more correctly, I. 
She takes the paper back. 
JULIANNE What if, what if I could find that E-mail? 
The long straight look.  Maybe he's hooked. 
JULIANNE I never noticed.  Kimmy has your eyes. 
INT.  LOBBY, RITZ CARLTON HOTEL - TWILIGHT 
Tall, gangly, young DESK CLERK.  Lank hair, pimples.  He looks up, beams to see... 
JULIANNE Hello, again. 
She's flirting her ass off. 
JULIANNE You still haven't straightened that tie. 
And she reaches across the desk with her lovely, slender hands. Does it for him.  Her fingers brush his chest on the way back.  We can assume a woody. 
JULIANNE You know, my friend, the one whose message I picked up...  ? 
He does.  His eyes flick toward his stately female SUPERVISOR, helping another guest across the way. 
JULIANNE Well, he's still with the wedding party.  And he asked me to get something he needs real badly from his room...  ? 
She smiles up at him.  The best she can. 
KIMMY Moral support. 
She loves him so much, and she is sick with worry. 
KIMMY What's good of having a big sister, if she... 
Stops.  Gestures with her eyes.  Because her big sister has just entered... 
... looking fabulous.  Julianne wears a long sleek sarong, slightly see-through.  Her hair is bound up with silver pins.  As she moves through the room toward us, we can see that, for once, her make-up is flawless, understated.  When she arrives at the table... 
... Michael is beaming, admiringly.  He stands up. 
MICHAEL (softly) Wow and wow.  You have a date, after this? 
JULIANNE Never can tell. 
He holds her chair.  She exchanges an intimate smile with the anxious Kim. 
MICHAEL You make me think of that song, we used to... 
And he starts humming.  The song is, "The Way You Look Tonight." 
MICHAEL (singing) Someday.  When I'm awfully low... 
They sit.  He looks from Julianne to his bride. 
MICHAEL Okay, kid.  You're on. 
Kim's eyes flick to Julianne, who nods, supportively.  The kid takes a breath. 
KIMMY It's really my father.  Who needs the favor. 
His face sort of comes to a stop.  Nothing she can read, yet.  He nods, yeah...? 
KIMMY He's... he's reorganizing some of the divisions of the company... 
His eyes flick to Julianne.  She looks down. 
MICHAEL (quiet) He never mentioned that.  Neither did y... 
KIMMY (blurting) ... and public relations is a big problem area for him. 
She can see it now.  In his eyes.  She just can't tell how bad. 
KIMMY He needs someone incredible, someone really close, who he can trust... 
MICHAEL Like family, huh? 
So quiet.  So cold.  She is terrified. 
KIMMY It would only be, maybe, six months? Or three or four? It would mean so much to him... 
MICHAEL To him. 
She swallows.  Straightens her spine. 
KIMMY And to m... 
MICHAEL (sharp, to Julianne) ... and you knew about this. 
Real quiet.  Against the noise of this place. 
JULIANNE I think you ought to listen to her, Michael.  This is her life, too. 
Just the thing.  To bring that anger near the surface.  He turns to Kim... 
MICHAEL Well, which is it? 
A demand.  Sharp.  Accusing.  She doesn't like that... 
MICHAEL You gonna tell me Daddy thought this one up? All of a sudden, I'm the only jerk alive who can help him deal with the press? 
She's trapped.  Angry, scared.  A deer in headlights. 
MICHAEL Why don't you start being honest for one fucking sec... 
JULIANNE Michael!! 
KIMMY (near tears) I am honest! 
Silence. 
KIMMY All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life... 
MICHAEL Well, forgive me for screwing up your plans! 
He can't even believe he's hearing this. 
MICHAEL I'm sure glad I'm hearing all this now, before it's too late! 
KIMMY What is that sup... 
MICHAEL And what am I supposed to do with my life, huh? I am 28 years old! I work in a low-paying, low-status, zero-respect job which, unfortunately, I happen to fucking love.  How inconvenient. 
Shrugs. 
MICHAEL No problem.  A little bullshit about Daddy's "needs," and presto, I'm a lap dog in high society. 
JULIANNE (softly) Michael, it sounds like a wonderful opportun... 
MICHAEL (whips around) Does it, really? How come you never took some sell-out establishment job? You had plenty of chances! 
Glares in her eyes. 
She looks in his eyes.  Realizing at last. 
JULIANNE You flew all the way h... 
DIGGER I noticed.  I'm on the noon back. We have this thing with George's family in the Hamptons. 
JULIANNE (soft) You're butting in. 
He still holds her wrists.  She brings one of his hands to her lips.  Kisses his knuckles. 
JULIANNE (softer) I really resent this. 
INT.  BATHROOM - MORNING 
Julianne seated at the sink, staring into the mirror, as Digger gently applies soup, cloth and water to easing away the mask.  A paleontologist restoring a Bronze Age artifact.  By the side of the half-filled sink, rests her plugged-in curling iron. 
JULIANNE What I mean, when I say annoyingly perfect, is that there is nothing annoying about her perfection. It is vulnerable and endearing. And that is annoying as shit. 
DIGGER You like her. 
JULIANNE If I didn't have to hate her, I'd adore her. 
She looks up at him and WINCES, as the movement makes him scrape her face.  He's sorry. 
JULIANNE Last night, she was crying, these big, real tears, when she thought she'd lost him.  It was like there was a knife in her heart... 
Looking in his eyes.  Needs him to hear. 
JULIANNE ... and I put it there.  I hated myself, I grieved for her, I couldn't enjoy one second of it! And then, when it didn't work... 
Can you believe this? 
JULIANNE I was devastated. 
DIGGER (softly) Go figure you. 
JULIANNE Because I realized.  When I see him say "I do," that knife will be in my heart.  And it will be there every... 
She holds his wrists now.  To stop him.  To plead for understanding.  Forgiveness. 
JULIANNE ... every time I think of him, forever, which could be a lot. 
She almost choked on that last part.  So she composes herself. 
JULIANNE You watch a guy caress his girlfriend's butt.  You see an Old Spice commercial.  Sentimental moments are everywhere, when you're in the right frame of mind. 
She swallows hard.  Fights for a grip on her determination. 
JULIANNE There are 18,250 nights in the next 50 years... 
DIGGER You've been working on this, huh? 
JULIANNE ... and having "done the right thing" will only really be comforting, oh, maybe, five, six times. 
She sets her jaw. 
JULIANNE This is my whole life's happiness. I have to be ruthless. 
DIGGER (quietly) And you believe that. 
JULIANNE (unconvincing) Sure. 
His eyes are gentle and merciless at once.  No way she gets off this hook. 
JULIANNE He was in love with me every day for nine years.  I can make him happier than she can. 
DIGGER It's not his happiness you're feeling guilty about... 
JULIANNE (proudly) I don't know the meaning of the word guilt! 
DIGGER Impressive. 
JULIANNE I am breaking her heart in the short run, but doing her a gigantic favor! She would be miserable tagging along after this insensitive doofus! 
DIGGER The man you love. 
JULIANNE Beyond reason.  The feminist warrior will rise up in this kid, and she'll be standing over his sleeping form with a butcher knife, selecting from a short list of body parts! 
DIGGER Someday she'll thank you. 
JULIANNE Let's not get carried away. 
And the defenses drain from her clay-ravaged features.  The real Julianne is glimpsed. 
JULIANNE I'd settle for.  Someday, I'll forgive myself. 
For...? 
JULIANNE For doing this terrible thing. 
Her eyes tear up. 
JULIANNE Which, by the way, I can't figure out how to do. 
As the tears fall, he wipes at them, discovering... 
DIGGER Jesus.  You're supposed to take your make-up off before you apply the m... 
JULIANNE I KNOW THAT!  I WAS DISTRACTED BY GRIEF! 
Oh. 
JULIANNE Guess what I brushed my teeth with last night? 
He thinks about this.  Following her eyes to the toiletries kit, he browses for a moment... 
DIGGER Well, I'm close to her.  I wanted to meet the one that got away. 
Said so naturally.  That embarrasses Michael, who looks down, his smile suddenly awkward. 
DIGGER What? 
MICHAEL I'm just glad someone finally put this thing in its proper perspective. 
Steals a glance at Julianne.  She rolls her eyes.  What a goofball, my outrageous friend. 
MICHAEL (to Digger) Stay, huh? 
DIGGER I honestly wish I could... 
MICHAEL I'll call George's parents. Tell them I need a best man who actually looks after me. 
Julianne comes over. 
JULIANNE (softly) They'd say that's my job. 
She runs her hands over his jacket, smoothing it everywhere.  With tenderness that approaches transparency.  Glances back at Digger... 
JULIANNE I'll take it home from here. 
Pinches Michael's ear.  Looks in his eyes. 
DIGGER Two words. 
JULIANNE Major.  Dish. 
DIGGER Manicure... 
She looks down.  Michael's nails are unclipped, with layers of impacted dirt.  She touches his fingertips, a little more softly than she may have intended. 
DIGGER Fly. 
Everyone looks down.  She ZIPS Michael up. 
MICHAEL (to Digger) You don't miss much. 
DIGGER Part of being a New Yorker. 
INT.  HAIR SALON - MORNING 
Cutting edge salon.  Loud, PULSING MUSIC.  Digger and Michael in adjacent chairs, heads back, each smoking impressive cigars as their hair is styled.  Digger's stylist is a hot trashy female. Michael's is a tall, flamboyant male in a day-glo vest. 
Each man has one hand soaking, the other being worked on by a manicurist, so Julianne goes from one to the other, removing their cigars so they can exhale.  A seraglio feel to the way she does this. 
Now she's arguing with Michael's stork-like stylist.  We can't hear over the music, but she keeps tugging on Michael's hair, pretty passionate about her point of view.  Suddenly, she GRABS the scissors to do it herself, and Michael... 
... BOLTS out of the chair.  WHOA! 
EXT.  O'HARA AIRPORT - DAY 
Skycaps, guests of impatient travelers, a bus offloading forty Japanese tourists.  A taxi cuts off a van to reach the curb.  Out jumps... 
Michael.  Opening the door for Digger and Julianne.  Digger says something, Michael gives him a strong HUG.  Julianne raises one finger to Michael, back in a second.  Leads Digger off by the hand. 
CLOSE on them now.  Alone in the throng. 
JULIANNE Bye, handsome. 
Digger just stares at her.  Those maddening judgemental eyes. 
JULIANNE You're going to say it, aren't you? 
DIGGER Tell him you love him.  With all your heart. 
JULIANNE I'm taking my next book to Viking. 
DIGGER Tell him you've loved him for nine years, but you were afraid to realize it. 
JULIANNE I'm moving this book to Viking. 
DIGGER Tell him you're afraid of love. Afraid of needing. 
JULIANNE Needing. 
DIGGER To belong to someone. 
He touches her hair. 
DIGGER We all do, beautiful.  I'm sorry about that. 
Staring in her eyes.  Even Julianne has run out of words. 
DIGGER Tell him you know this is the worst, dumbest, cruelest moment to do this to him.  But there it is, and he has to choose. 
JULIANNE And what will he do? 
Digger isn't smiling.  His voice low, beneath the crowd... 
DIGGER He'll choose Kim.  You'll stand by her at her wedding.  You'll kiss him good-bye.  And you'll go home. 
He holds up one finger.  Almost touching her nose. 
DIGGER This is what you've come to do. Now do it. 
Wow.  She looks frightened and moved, all at the same time.  She kisses him on the lips. 
And walks away.  He watches her go through the crowd.  Take Michael's hand.  Lead him back toward the taxi. 
EXT.  SKYLINE CRUISE BOAT - DAY 
The skyline of Chicago moves past us.  Slowly.  The NBC Tower, Cityfront Center... 
Slips it on her left hand.  Ring finger. 
MANDY/SAMMY (O.S., singing) Comin too car-ryyy. Me ho-o-ome... 
Touches it.  Turns it on her finger.  So many emotions. 
MANDY/SAMMY (O.S., singing) It was a hand.  Of a-a-angels. Coming' for me-e-ee... 
Tries to pull it off. 
MANDY/SAMMY (O.S., singing) Comin' for to carry me home. 
It won't come.  Not even close. 
INT.  CRAB HOUSE - NIGHT 
CLOSE on a bowl filled with squares of butter.  HEAR the butt of conversation from a rowdy, friendly joint.  Julianne's right hand REACHES to the bowl, fingers trace the rim innocently, then... 
... SLIDE the bowl into Julianne's lap beneath the table.  Her right hand MASSAGES all the butter into a gooey revolving mess.  We can pick out familiar voices now, family in distance, the twins closer. As, hidden from view, Julianne brings... 
... her left hand from her pocket.  Yep.  The ring is still there. The finger already red and swollen from pacicky efforts to pull it off.  And as APPLAUSE surrounds us, Julianne... 
PLUNGES her ring finger into the morass of grease, frantically TEARING at the ring, butter SPLURGING on her pants, everywhere, as we PULL BACK to see... 
... the long table covered with butcher paper, the family at the far end, the twins down here with us, a mug of beer for each place, as team of waiters with heaping platters of CRABS, which they... 
... FLING across the butcher paper, as APPLAUSE continues from everyone but Julianne, who still struggles secretly.  As the waiters set huge wooden MALLETS in front of each guest, Joe O'Neal rises, POUNDS the table with his mallet for attention. 
JOE Like to welcome ever'body to our little rehearsal supper... 
He COUGHS, unaccustomed to public speaking.  Walter and Isabelle clap and call out support.  So Joe lifts his mallet... 
JOE Okay, everyone stand up! 
And everyone does.  With one exception.  Trapped.  She JAMS her left hand in her coat pocket, SMEARS her right palm sort of clean on the underside of the table, GRABS her mallet and JUMPS UP. 
JOE To the bride, uh, goes the honor... of cracking the first crab! 
Everyone applauses by banging their mallets.  Joe RAISES his high. Everybody imitates. 
KIMMY But first, a toast! 
And everybody SNATCHES up their beers with their left hands, as Julianne DROPS her mallet with a HORRIFIC CRASH, grabbing her beer, looking up to... 
JULIANNE (on the spot) I'm right-handed. 
A hugely embarrassing half-second.  Bailed out by... 
KIMMY To our host, my cuddly Papa Joe. 
All turns. 
KIMMY Who taught me to play "Blue Hawaii." On my nose. 
With a look at Julianne, Kim sets down her mallet gently, and performs a nasal HUM of the tropical standard, strikingly her nostril repeatedly for vibrato.  It is charming, and everybody watches. 
INT.  HOTEL BALLROOM - LATER 
CLOSE on an actual, living, if geriatric, LION.  He blinks from his cage, bored as hell.  HEAR the surrounding noise, chatter, LOUD Sinatra music, of a very large party.  PULL BACK to see... 
... and overdecorated BALLROOM, in dim and dramatic lighting, dripping with the trappings of ANCIENT ROME.  The mingling guests are the neatly one hundred females of the wedding party, most of them older women.  They are served by wandering well-built ATHLETES in Roman togas or gladiator costumes.  PAN TO... 
...  Julianne, still in her suit, hiding by a table piled with a carload of grapes.  Her left hand still buried in her pocket.  The eyes of a hunted animal.  From nowhere... 
MANDY/SAMMY (O.S.) Boo!!! 
She JUMPS a foot, both hands FLYING UP, left one awkwardly slamming back into its pocket.  The girls have snuck up behind her.  They have changed into hot gowns that are really only wide ribbons wrapped around their bodies. 
MANDY I know why you're scared of our party.  It's too hip. 
Sinatra singing "Stranger In The Night." Hugely-muscled, half-naked black and white studs, serving enchanted blue-haired ladies. 
SAMMY Kimberly wanted to tickle the grandmas, so we figured, give 'em a cheap thrill.  Walter supplied the decorative touches... 
SAMMY (points out the jokes) Nose tackle from the Bears... power forward from the Bulls... defenseman from the Black Hawks... my personal favorite, the designated hitter... 
MANDY ... I'm partial to the tight end. 
SAMMY This is USDA Prime, largely available, beef.  With no notice- able competition, present company excepted... 
Now they stare at her.  With identical, really odd, smiles. 
SAMMY And yet here you are.  All celibate and reclusive. 
MANDY With those big, dark, haunted eyes. As if you were harborin' some... unspeakably... guilty... secret. 
Oh. 
JULIANNE Well, I'm worried about something. 
Something.  Their expressions are deliciously, identically expectant. 
JULIANNE Oh.  I left this really important file in Walter's office.  I have to send my editor some... 
Some... 
JULIANNE ... figures.  On territorial sales. To close my book deal. 
Uh-huh... 
JULIANNE So Kim gave me the key.  And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal... 
SAMMY Oh.  We thought it was the ring. 
Julianne blinks.  Ring...? 
Now.  He really doesn't get it. 
JULIANNE I mean, tomorrow... we'll all be busy with more important things. So... 
So? 
JULIANNE ... tonight's my last chance. 
He sighs. 
MICHAEL I forgot how cute you look.  When you get impossible. 
JULIANNE It's just... up there... right in front of Walter's... y'know, computer. If memory serves. 
Helpless. 
JULIANNE We could use... his computer, to... just E-mail those suckers right ou... 
MICHAEL Tomorrow is Sunday.  Nobody's doing business.  Crack of dawn, Monday, Walter'll take you up there... 
Her eyes fill with tears.  He is mystified.  Smiles tenderly. 
MICHAEL (softly) Give it up, kid. 
Touches her hair. 
MICHAEL You can't win 'em all. 
And slowly, he takes her hand.  Leads her way.  She takes one backward glance at the locked door.  Her last dream dies. 
INT.  LOBBY, RITZ CARLTON - NIGHT 
Michael and a disconsolate Julianne board the elevator.  He presses 15, she pushes 11.  Michael carries a handful of messages slips and an envelope.  As the car starts up, she folds her arms across her chest, at the edge of tears.  He doesn't know what to do. 
MICHAEL (gently) Listen up, huh? Even if you blow this deal, how big could it be? 
JULIANNE (voice nearly cracking) You're right.  Easy come, easy go. 
He's really concerned, can't bear to see her so upset. 
MICHAEL (softly) Jules? 
She won't look at him.  She wants to die.  The bell RINGS, the doors open to her floor.  She just walks out. 
And he follows.  They stand now, she with her arms crossed, lip trembling.  She can't believe how close she is to losing it. 
MICHAEL This thing means that much to y... 
JULIANNE It means a lot. 
He nods.  Okay. 
MICHAEL I'll call the house, Walter's probably not even asleep... 
Her mouth drops.  She can't believe this. 
MICHAEL I'll drive you out there, we'll get the key, we'll go back to the office... 
She THROWS her arms around his, HUGGING him so hard, so close.  He laughs, she is so weird.  She pulls back, beaming, glowing. 
MICHAEL Come on, we'll call from your room. 
She claps his hand.  As they head down the hall... 
MICHAEL If I fall asleep on the altar tomorrow... 
He's trying to flip through the message slips in his free hand... 
MICHAEL ... you better be there to... funny, these are all from Ben. 
She's at her door, turning the key.  He looks at the envelope. 
MICHAEL The fax is from Ben, too.  Man, it's my wedding, and my boss can't leave me alone... 
JULIANNE (entering her room) ... maybe it's congratulations. 
He follows her in, opening the envelope.  Stops.  Reads.  And his face suddenly... freezes.  To stone. 
JULIANNE (turning to him) Michael? What ha... 
MICHAEL (reading) Mike.  I can't believe I'm doing this to you on the night before your wedding.  But I think you need and deserve to know... 
And he looks up to her. 
MICHAEL ... what you're marrying into. 
He hands it toward her.  She takes it, hesitantly, and he walks past. Toward the phone. 
JULIANNE (reading) I received the following E-mail this afternoon... "Ben, I need a favor.  My daughter's every happiness...  " 
Her eyes BUG OUT of her head.  Holy shit! We can hear him DIALING the phone.  She keeps reading, it's all there.  How did this happen? 
MICHAEL (O.S.) Isabelle?  I need to talk to Kim... 
JULIANNE (reading) "Mike, the funny thing is, he's offering you a gig you'd be stupid to turn down..." 
MICHAEL (O.S.) I'm just tired.  Please put her on?  Thanks. 
JULIANNE (reading) "Maybe you should take the job. And dump the girl." 
And when she turns... 
MICHAEL Jules.  Could you give me a minute? 
He looks more sick than angry.  As if the heart has just been cut out of him.  She doesn't know what to say or do, so she just stands, staring dumbly. 
... he pulls the ring OFF.  Nothing to it.  She blinks. 
JULIANNE It's mental, you know. 
He doesn't understand that. 
JULIANNE Should we take a walk?  Or maybe some food sent up, or something... 
MICHAEL I just want to be alone.  Is that okay? 
She nods, sure.  He kisses her cheek.  Stands up. 
MICHAEL Maybe I'll go back to New York. Hang with you for awhile, huh? Ben'll understand. 
She nods again.  Whatever you say.  He steps into the open doorway... 
MICHAEL Or we'll go somewhere.  If you have the time. 
JULIANNE If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento... 
They smiles at each other.  For real. 
JULIANNE I've never been to Texas. 
Imagine that.  The look holds.  Just above a whisper... 
MICHAEL Thanks for coming to my wedding. 
And then he's gone. 
IN.JULIANNE'S BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT 
Julianne brushing out her hair in the bathroom mirror, eyeing her image with evident dissatisfaction, as she listens to the receiver RINGING. 
DIGGER (V.O.  MACHINE) Digger and George are with family in the Hamptons until Monday morning.  Brevity is even more in order than usual. 
BEEP. 
JULIANNE Hey, handsome.  Brevity this... 
Her eyes find the pack of cigarettes.  Next to her toiletries kit. 
JULIANNE (softly) I won. 
Her fingers touch the pack.  As if an object of significance.  Takes it up. 
JULIANNE Amazing, huh?  I didn't do things quite your way.  But... I got it down. 
Cradling the phone against her shoulder, she carefully tears the top of the pack completely open. 
JULIANNE And forty years and nine grand- children later, when I sit with Michael on some rustic porch, slogging through our sweet swamp of nostalgic memories... 
Reaches the pack toward the toilet. 
JULIANNE No one is going to sweet the details... 
Turns it upside down, emptying a dozen cigarettes into the john. 
JULIANNE Of one weekend in Chicago. 
Drops the lid with a CLATTER.  Hits the FLUSH. 
JULIANNE Talk about celebration... 
She lifts a tube from her toiletries kit.  Stares at it, real close. 
JULIANNE I'm gonna brush my teeth with actual toothpaste. 
Turns it over, reads all the writing.  Yep. 
JULIANNE I guess I'm too exhausted to feel the elation I so richly undeserve... 
Squeezes some paste onto her brush.  Carefully. 
JULIANNE So I'm gonna hold calls at the desk... while I get my... 
Start brushing. 
JULIANNE (around, her mouthful) God, it is toothpaste, they should sell this stuff commercially! Anyway, a girl does need her... 
Squints at her image.  Laughs, spewing a little foam. 
JULIANNE ... well, we're a bit past worrying about beauty sleep. Let's just settle for not frightening small animals. 
She SPITS.  Tells Digger's machine... 
JULIANNE Anyway, I couldn't have done it without you.  Even though I did, if you follow that. 
Wipes her mouth.  Stares off.  The eyes a little dreamy. 
JULIANNE Three words:  Happily.  Ever. Well, you know. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT.  BEDROOM - MORNING 
Julianne sprawled all over the bed, mouth open like a carp, sleeping mask against the daylight.  A sudden RAPPING at the door, and she... 
... sits BOLT UPRIGHT.  Utterly disoriented, until she pulls off the mask.  Stumbles out of bed, walking toward the firm KNOCKING, when... 
... it stops.  A message slip SLIDES beneath her door.  She lifts it, barely conscious.  This wakes her up.  In one. 
JULIANNE (to the slip) You're going where? 
EXT.  WALLACE ESTATE - DAY 
JULIANNE When are you gonna come clean with your folks? 
KIMMY Don't you see... 
JULIANNE If you're waiting for "Do you take this man?", that's considered poor form. 
KIMMY ... that this is all my fault? 
Stops Julianne cold.  Your fault. 
KIMMY Whatever delusions I drove him to, there is truth at the heart of it. I want him to work for my father. I want to stay in school.  I want a life of my own! 
Harder and harder for Julianne to push.  Her mouth is dry. 
JULIANNE Yeah, well, lots of couples are imcompat... 
KIMMY I love him. 
Fragile and strong at once.  A plea. 
KIMMY Tell him it's my fault and that I love him. 
A long beat. 
JULIANNE I'll be right back. 
EXT.  TENNIS COURT - DAY 
The court has become a giant holding pen for tonight's BALLOONS. There are maybe a billion in assorted colors already blowing in all directions, under clear plastic sheeting which has ben spread across the top of the court's chain-link fence. 
Michael stands outside the court, clutching the chain link like a prisoner, as Julianne comes through the gate.  From somewhere, we hear high, squeaky, alien voice-like SOUNDS.  Incongruous against... 
MICHAEL How is she? 
Julianne absorbs this.  As the bizarre SOUNDS continue, she WHIRLS around... 
JULIANNE KNOCK IT OFF!!! 
We now see three STONER COLLEGE GUYS, who have been filling the endless array of balloons from helium tanks at center court. Clearly, they've been inhaling their working materials. 
STONER KID (Minnie Mouse) YES, SIR! 
A Nazi salute.  When she turns back... 
MICHAEL I asked you... 
JULIANNE She admits it's her fault. 
He absorbs that.  And then... 
MICHAEL Do you think she still loves me? 
We watch the struggle inside her.  Her voice drops... 
JULIANNE Sure, she does.  She's crazy about you. 
Now tears stand in both their eyes.  The stoners are doing their Alvin and the Chipmuks impersonation festival in the B.G., singing in castrato harmony.  But our two don't notice. 
MICHAEL I keep asking, how can I explain what happened? And I keep getting that same answer all night long. 
Which is... 
MICHAEL I can't.  And it doesn't matter. I drove her to it, because I want things my way.  And even if she did something tricky and unfair... she was blinded by love, okay? 
Julianne swallows.  For obvious reasons. 
JULIANNE Does that make it right... 
MICHAEL Love doesn't have to be right. It just has to be love. 
The stoner are now helium-crooning "Bridge Over Troubled Waters." Actually, they're getting better. 
MICHAEL She's giving up half her life for me, and I'm bitching because it hurts her. 
STONERS (singing) Sail on silver girl Sail on by... 
MICHAEL She's a saint!  And I'm a worthless ingrate! 
STONERS (singing) Your time has come to shine, All your dreams are on their way... 
MICHAEL Tell her.  I'll marry her at six o'clock, if she'll still have me. 
The stoners blend on the high note.  It's pretty moving. 
JULIANNE I'll be right back. 
INT.  ORGAN LOFT - DAY 
PAN along a gigantic serpentine stack of wedding presents.  Nearly twelve feet high, the pile curves along the balcony, high above the diners in the Great Room, extending al the way to... 
... an organ loft.  Alone, above the noise of the party, Julianne and Kimmy have just reached the top of the staircase.  Trapped between ten tons of lavish gifts and the keyboard of the mammoth organ.  Dwarfed by their surroundings, Kimmy draws the hardest breath of her life... 
KIMMY (whispers) So.  What did he say? 
Julianne's eyes move over the young girl's face. 
JULIANNE He said.  Marry me. 
Kimmy YELPS in her ecstasy, FLINGING herself against Julianne, and they go DOWN full length across the organ's pedals, BLASTING the room with a MONSTER CHORD of china-rattling volume and horrifying disharmony. 
As grown men and women SCREAM in spontaneous terror below, Kimmy begins to... 
... LAUGH.  And KISS and hug her new sister.  And holds her tight. 
EXT.  WILLOW POND - DAY 
MICHAEL Almost three. 
JULIANNE That is so romantic. 
Which makes him reach and touch her hair. 
MICHAEL I just wonder if you know why. 
Do you? 
MICHAEL It's because romance isn't mystery, and tricks, and doubts, and halting, unspoken longings. That's not the real romance. 
Tears in his eyes now.  First time. 
MICHAEL The real romance is saying yes. 
Does she know that now?  He looks at his watch. 
MICHAEL (sighs) Woulda been a nice wedding. 
Oh.  That. 
JULIANNE (urgently) You can't believe you've lost her!  Sooner or later, you'll find her, and you'll look in each other's eyes, and you'll see all that love... 
JULIANNE Course, if it's later rather than sooner, I'd hate to be you at six o'clock. (beat) You've got a lot of explaining to... 
MICHAEL I'm just thinking of how she's hurting.  Lost.  Alone.  Like her life is over. 
JULIANNE That's little egotistical. 
He glares at her. 
JULIANNE But, undoubtedly accurate. 
She claps her hands, galvanized by the emergency. 
JULIANNE Okay, we'll split up.  You go to every romantic place you guys have, I'll go... someplace brilliant, and the first one who... 
MICHAEL If you find her... 
Strange tone.  A gentle warning. 
MICHAEL The kiss.  May be hard.  For you to explain. (beat) Because the only fear she really has, is... 
JULIANNE ... me, yeah.  And she likes Tommy Lasorda.  Case closed. 
Looks at her own watch.  Shit! 
MICHAEL But if you do get to her first... 
She looks up. 
MICHAEL There is something you are authorized to say. 
EXT.  TAXI STAND - DAY 
Julianne sits on the fender of this guy's taxi.  The driver smokes, paces, while she waits for a connection on her cellular.  Then... 
MANDY (V.O.) Wallace egregious residence, Mandy speaking. 
JULIANNE It's Jules, you guys haven't had a call from, say, Kimberly, have you? 
MANDY (V.O.) Oh, she's slipped out, the little monkey.  Prob'ly with Michael, doin' the nasty. 
A shallow laugh... 
MANDY (V.O.) Or crying in her nachos, down at Comskey Park. 
Julianne's face SNAPS to alert. 
JULIANNE Ex-cuse me? 
MANDY (V.O.) I had this crank call?  From some guy who thinks he saw her? I said, what would a bride be doin', on her wedding... 
JULIANNE You are so right.  What a nerve on that guy!  Bring my dress to church, huh? 
Signals the driver, let's GO! 
JULIANNE I want to pick up a little something for the ceremony. 
INT.  LUXURY BOX, COMISKEY PARK - AFTERNOON 
Game in progress.  Julianne and the bodyguard stand in the doorway of the deserted skybox.  Everyone Walter knows is going to a wedding.  The box is empty except for one cardboard container of nachos, extra cheese, sitting alone before a pulled-back chair. 
BODYGUARD She wouldn't confide in me, so I called the house. 
He sighs.  Feels terrible about all this. 
BODYGUARD Luckily, I got her cousin. 
Julianne nods.  Yeah, big break, there. 
JULIANNE Going to the john, she said? 
BODYGUARD Could be there awhile. 
INT.  WOMEN'S RESTROOM - AFTERNOON 
Julianne BURSTS into the enormous chaotic restroom.  Looks around wildly, no sign of Kim. 
JULIANNE YO!  IMMIGRATION! 
Everybody stops.  Pays attention. 
JULIANNE I GOT A WARRANT FOR MS. KIMBERLY WALLACE! 
JULIANNE ... he's never seen a woman before. 
PAN DOWN the white until we are... 
CLOSE on the bride's perfect slippers.  HOLD.  And... 
INT.  CHAPEL - EVENING 
Begins to slowly PAN BACK UP the length of an exquisite gown.  We can tell from the organ, the nearby thrum of expectant voices, that we are nearing the moment.  We reach... 
... Kimmy's hand.  Firmly clasping Walter's.  Keep PANNING, the bodice, the lace, her throat, and finally, we are CLOSE on... 
... the face of the bride.  Now we understand the word radiant.  We also understand scared senseless.  Our perfect, unflappable Kimmy is in a trance of emotional overload where bliss and panic seamlessly blend. 
The organ's noddling stops.  Kimmy's eyes alerted, like a small animal bearing a predator approach her thicket.  Suddenly, the CHORD.  The Wedding March from Wagner's Lohengrin.  Here.  Comes. The bride.  And we SNAP TO... 
FULL ANGLE... Kim and Walter.  This is it. 
WALTER (whispers) Left foot. 
REVERSE ANGLE... Kim's POV, the chapel, every pew packed, every neck craning this way, the white satin carpet down the endless aisle to where... 
Michael waits.  Also in a zone of pseudo-consciousness.  From which he attempts a smile.  Not comforting.  Kim's POV WHIP PAN the groomsmen, the twins, LOCKING FOCUS on Julianne, standing strong and beautiful, a glow of her own in the daffodil dress.  She sends her little sister a WINK across the trackless miles of aisle.  You can do this, kid.  So... 
... Kimmy does.  On her father's arm, she walks the gauntlet of the world's intrusive admiration.  One step at a time.  The most beautiful she will ever be.  She is dazzling the crowd and managing to not throw up at the same time. 
And she's there.  At his side.  She glances back to her maid of honor, just to make sure she's not working without a net.  So Julianne... 
... CROSSES her eyes.  Which lets the kid smile and finally take a breath.  Have a little fun, huh? Kim nods, got it, turns to... 
The Minister.  Who stands before them with a calming presence. Thank God someone has done this before.  The crowd has hushed. The Minister's eyes are only for two.  His words are for all... 
MINISTER Michael and Kimmy wrote these words.  She asked me to confide, mostly Michael. 
A ripple of laughter.  Gentle and fine.  They are setting in. 
MINISTER So he gets to say them. 
A surprise.  A pleasant one.  The crowd adjust in its seats.  As Michael begins... 
MICHAEL Why do people get married anymore? 
And on these words.  We SNAP to Julianne.  Share her interest in the bluntness, the simplicity, the unorthodoxy of this beginning. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) Why not live together amicably, with no sense of obligation beyond the moment? 
Her eyes.  She's listening. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) As long as the sex is good.  As long as no one more interesting has wandered into view.  As long as the thousand conflicts of two individual wills remain comfortably compromised. 
PANNING now.  Other faces.  Isabelle.  Proud to the bone. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) And when one feels the urge to move on, to explore the new. No guilt, no disgrace, no promise broken. 
Walter.  His eyes damp.  Against our expectation. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) No agony of having dishonored a time.  When our hearts.  And the world were different. 
Joe nods, as he hears... 
MICHAEL (O.S.) Marriage is a lot to put up with. 
Julianne once more.  No breath.  Rapt. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) The answer must be.  That there is some need basic to the human heart.  That embracing... the obligation of commitment... fulfills. 
Her eyes have clouded.  As if Michael is talking to her. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) Some need to belong to one another in a way which rages against the notion... that all is impermanent. Against the notion of mortality. 
And suddenly, ALL the feeling rises in her throat. 
MICHAEL (O.S.) Our love is bigger.  And longer. Than life itself. 
And the tears come.  They come freely, unhidden, unnoticed.  As if they were needed. 
Michael now.  Looking at his bride. 
MICHAEL That's what we want.  And marriage. Is what we do about it. 
Kimmy smiles at him.  With love bigger than life itself. 
MICHAEL We are fools in this.  Thank God Almighty. 
He is done.  There is a silence. 
MINISTER Boy, that was good! 
People LAUGH.  The Minister holds up a sheet of paper.  For the crowd to see.  Mostly paragraphs crossed out in red ink. 
MINISTER Michael and Kim also edited what they want me to say... 
More laughter. 
MINISTER The idea was, we're only marrying once.  We have to remember it forever.  Let's keep to the good stuff. (squints at the sheet) You may kiss the bride. 
Bigger LAUGHTER.  The Minister waves this off, his little joke. Turns to the best man, pantomimes the ring.  As the hammered gold circle is handed to Michael, Julianne absently scratches her still- swollen finger.  Mandy taps Julianne on the arm, and produces... 
... a matching ring.  Take it! Gives it to her.  So Julianne steps forward.  Places the second ring into Kimmy's waiting hand.  Their eyes meet, and hold throughout... 
MINISTER (O.S.) If anyone here can show just cause why this man and woman should not be married, speak now.  Or forever hold your peace. 
Julianne CLEARS her throat.  Kimmy's heart flutters.  In the silence... Julianne's wonderful smile.  Just kidding. 
Michael reaches for Kim's hand, turns her gently to him.  Places his ring on her finger.  Holds her hands. 
