NEXT 
Written by 
Gary Goldman 
Based on "The Golden Man" 
Written by 
Philip K. Dick 
May 14, 2004 
BARE WHITE ROOM 
Thirty feet square. CRIS JOHNSON, wearing a jail uniform, sits in a HEAVY CHAIR that is bolted to the floor. Mid- twenties, jaded, rebellious, handsome as a statue, Cris radiates a serene, if somewhat scruffy, charisma. 
He faces a PLASMA SCREEN MONITOR on a bare wall. To the left of the screen, an unframed MIRROR; to the right, a DIGITAL CLOCK-CALENDAR. 
A WOMAN'S FACE appears on the plasma screen. CALLIE FERRIS. Thirty. Tailored. Angular. Kate Hepburn-ish. 
Ferris on monitor Mr. Johnson, you've been sent to us by the state authorities for testing. We want to determine if there's any substance to your claims. 
CrIS Fire away. 
FERRIS ON MONITOR If we can verify your ability, we may be able to help you avoid a criminal trial. 
CRIS And "we" is...? 
Ferris ON MONITOR Homeland Security. 
Ferris' face is replaced on the plasma screen by a series of random video clips. Hang-gliding. Traffic jam. Volcano erupting. 
Ferris ON MONITOR Now if you would, please look at the monitor and tell us what you see, say, five minutes from now. 
Cris looks at the clock. 16:32 / March 9, 2006. He squints and the clock speeds up a little. 
Ferris (o.c.) Are you there yet? 
In a few seconds, the clock reads 16:37. 
On the monitor. Ferris' image has been replaced by footage of surfers riding big waves in Hawaii. 
CrIS Surfers. 
Ferris (o.c.) Good. Now can you move ahead ten minutes. 
Varied images fast forward on the plasma screen. He arrives at 16:47 and reports on what he sees. 
cris Ants crawling up a tree. 
Ferris (o.c.) Excellent. Can you get to 1900 hours? 
Cris looks ahead and squints. 
CLOCK 
Minutes whiz by. 
PLASMA SCREEN 
Clips play and change almost too fast to be recognized. 
Clock 
Cris gets to 19:00 -- and keeps going. 
Mirror 
Cris has a five o'clock shadow. 
Clock 
Hours tick off like an accelerating metronome. 
Mirror 
Cris sports a three-day stubble. He struggles to get out of the chair, but he is now strapped into it, bound at the wrist and ankle. His face fills with rage. 
Plasma screen 
The evening news zips by. Talking heads. Reportage. 
Mirror 
Like a window into a time machine. Cris' beard lengthens. He grows pale. His clothes change every few seconds. Rage gives way to the panic of a man trapped on a runaway train. 
Plasma screen 
The news dissolves into a blur. 
Mirror 
Cris ages before his own eyes. Wrinkles etch into skin. Hair greys, recedes. Outrage ebbs into hollow resignation as Cris watches himself waste away. 
Woman's voice Sir...Sir? 
Cris' tired old eyes look up, confused. 
INT. VEGAS HOTEL COFFEE SHOP - DAY 
A perky young WAITRESS stands over him, holding a pot of coffee. 
WAITRESS Warm-up? 
On cris 
Young again. 
davis (o.c.) I guess. 
Pull back: surveillance room 
Ferris and DAVIS, the casino's dapper CHIEF OF SECURITY, stand behind Hawkeye, the Surveillance Supervisor, and study Cris on various monitors. 
Ferris Maybe she's in cahoots. 
davis He's beaten six dealers in a row. 
ferriS You're sure he's not counting? 
hawkeye We've got five decks in the shoe. And he wins more off the top than the bottom. 
davis Moves a lot from table to table. 
On a monitor, Cris pockets some of his chips. 
hawkeye Keeps his stacks short. 
On another monitor, A COCKTAIL WAITRESS takes orders from the players. 
WAITRESS What's your pleasure? 
CRIS Grand Dad, rocks. 
Ferris What's his name? 
davis (shrugs) Not staying here. Pays in cash. 
Hawkeye We're running him through face check. 
As Ferris watches Cris on the monitor, he becomes still and attentive, as if sensing danger. He squints a little, the way we do when we try to remember something. 
Ferris Invite him for a drink. (remembers her manners) If you don't mind. 
INT. CASINO/BLACKJACK TABLE - DAY 
As Cris signals for another card, TWO BLACK SUITS appear behind him. 
black suit (o.S.) Sir, would you come with us, please. 
Cris takes in their grim faces. Turns to see two more pairs of goons stationed nearby. 
SNAPBACK to: 
Thirty seconds ago 
The COCKTAIL WAITRESS approaches to take Cris' order. 
WAITRESS What's your pleasure? 
This time, Cris hurriedly scoops all his chips into his coat pocket, jostling the Waitress as he stands. 
CRIS Scuse me, sorry. 
Hustling away, he glances back just as the first TWO BLACK SUITS reach his stool, but this time it's empty. They look around. One of them whispers into his mike. The three pairs of goons get instructions and split up. 
Tracking shot / eye level 
Cris strides crisply through the casino. Sees another PAIR OF BLACK SUITS, scanning for him. He ducks into the maze of slots. Zigs and zags from aisle to aisle, seemingly at random. A moment after each turn, a Black Suit appears ahead, behind, or to the side - where they would have spotted Cris. 
Tracking shot / high angle 
A clearer perspective as TWO BLACK SUITS approach Cris' aisle from different directions. Cris has no way to see them or know they're coming, but at the last moment, he MOVES in between two aisles where neither guard will see him as they pass. 
surveillance room 
Davis and Hawkeye wince as the Black Suits keep missing their quarry. 
davis What's wrong with you guys? 
hawkeye He's right next to you! Aisle 63! 
Ferris watches the chase, fascinated. 
Phalanxes of slot machines 
Black Suits converge from various directions, in that fake- calm fast-walk. 
Cris studies the gamblers playing the machines nearby, then heads to a particular spot - where he is sure to be spotted - except that a TEXAS-SIZED MAN repositions himself, blocking the Black Suit's view. 
The Black Suit moves on. Cris shifts to another spot just as a different Black Suit arrives at the other end of the aisle. This time, THREE FRAT BOYS change machines and obscure Cris from his gaze. 
surveillance room 
Davis is throwing a fit. 
Davis There! There! He's right there in front of you! Walk toward each other! 
Cris slips away in the shadow of the Frat Boys. 
hawkeye Maybe he's on our frequency. 
DAVIS I don't see an earphone on him. 
hawkeye He's heading to the Convention Annex. 
FERRIS (stands) Give me a headset. I'm going down there. 
Convention annex 
Arriving at the foyer, Cris sees Five Meeting Rooms. He squints then decisively enters one of them. 
FOUR BLACK SUITS arrive an instant later. Without wasting a beat, each of them goes through a different door. All except the one Cris went through. 
Cris re-emerges a moment later and heads back toward the casino. 
Casino 
FeRRIS That's because they're.... 
WISDOM Right. 
Ouch. 
WISDOM I'm sorry, but they're right. 
FERRIS You bastard. 
WISDOM I care about you, and I wanted to support you. But there's a limit to what I can... 
FERRIS (professional) Look, we analyzed what this ability would look like if it existed. (MORE) 
FERRIS (cont'd) I went screening for it in a highly scientific way. And now I've identified someone who matches all the indicators. So the next obvious step is to... 
wisdom Let me do my job! - Christ! Don't you ever quit? 
FERRIS No. (beat) I've got a country to protect. 
He finds her both infuriating and irresistible. 
WISDOM Use your charm on somebody else. 
He stalks out of the room, leaving her more thwarted than sad. 
DRIVER'S POV: TRAFFIC IN VEGAS 
An elevated freeway. Driving behind a pick-up truck carrying a mattress and box spring. 
Cris (v.O.) I'm not God. I don't see everything. Just my own future. 
Ext./INT. Cris' car - DAY 
Cris drives an old Camaro, muscle-y but inconspicuous. 
Cris (v.O.) To me, it seems normal. The way lightning comes before thunder. 
Cris changes lanes to get from behind the truck. 
CRIS (V.O.) Most of the time, I'm not paying attention. Just making sure I don't step in a mess. 
In his rearview mirror, Cris sees the mattress fall off the truck, causing an accident. 
CRIS (V.O.) Sometimes I get a blast from far away. 
He sees a plume of smoke in the distance. 
CRIS (V.O.) Or I can start with a glimpse of something close and keep pushing on. 
He takes the next exit. 
CRIS (V.O.) Usually it's none of my business. 
He turns into the parking lot of a bookie shop, THE FINISH LINE. 
INT. The finish line - DAY 
Cris walks to the counter. Addresses the manager. 
CRIS Guy around? 
MANAGER You are? 
CRIS Tell him it's King Midas. 
INT. homeland security regional hq - internal security office - DAY 
TERRY BAINES, plainclothed HEAD OF PROTECTIVE SERVICES for the Facility, walks down the corridor with three of the better-trained MILITARY POLICE who have been brought in to augment the regular staff of civilian FEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICE POLICE. Baines is a handsome former Special Forces Lieutenant, early-forties, who takes his work very seriously. Ferris runs to catch up with him. He doesn't slow down for her. 
FERRIS Terry? Terry! - I know you've got your hands full but I was wondering if you might be able to spare a few warm bodies for an outside operation. 
She gives him a look. There's some mutual attraction, but not a lot of affection. 
BAINES We're strictly internal. 
FERRIS That's why I need your people. Everybody else is assigned. 
BAINES Does Wisdom know about this? 
FERRIS He suggested it. 
While Baines arches a dubious eyebrow, an intellectual junior analyst, AMANDA, catches up with Ferris. 
AMANDA Callie. (corrects herself) Agent Ferris. I've got a face match on your subject. His name is Cris Johnson. 
Ferris takes Amanda's PRINTOUT and glances at it on the run: it's a PHOTO of Cris on a WANTED BULLETIN. 
fERRIS (slows to a stop) Never mind, Terry. Pretty Boy here is wanted for murder in Nevada. 
She hustles off with Amanda. 
INT. BACK ROOM AT THE FINISH LINE - DAY 
A smoky office with a big screen tv and a poker table, but no card players. Cris is greeted by GUY, relaxed, professional, smartly dressed, mid-forties. He's classier than the joint he runs. 
Guy Well, if it isn't the Golden Man. 
A look, a hug. A lot of history. 
Guy What brings you crawling back to me? 
CRIS I need to cash some chips. - Got tagged. 
He starts setting them in stacks on the poker table. 
GUY You burned through your stash already? 
CRIS I've been trying to lay low. 
INT. State police STATION - dAY 
Cavanaugh pours coffee for himself and Ferris. 
CAVANAUGH He's just some gambler. Lives completely off the grid. No bank account. No credit cards. No previous record. 
Ferris So why'd he do it? 
CAVANAUGH Must be a wacko. He'd never met the victim. No connection whatsoever. 
Ferris tries to make sense of it all. 
feRRIS And in fifteen months, why haven't you caught him? 
Cavanaugh sighs woefully. 
CAVANAUGH You saw. He's got eyes in the back of his head. He can see around corners. I even had him in custody once, and he disappeared. 
Ferris Must be very embarrassing. 
A painful subject for Cavanaugh. 
CAVANAUGH And what is it you want him for? 
Ferris Questioning. 
CAVANAUGH About? 
Ferris Stuff that hasn't happened yet. 
Cavanaugh nods knowingly. 
CAVANAUGH Well, I guess Homeland Security trumps liquor store murder. How can I help? 
Ext. Suburban home - las vegas - niGHT 
A tract house, cheap, from the 60's, could be anywhere. Something sad about the place. Cris stands at the door, holding a bag of groceries. IRV, a sick old man, opens the door, wearing a knit cap and pajamas. He's hooked up to a little oxygen tank on wheels. When he sees Cris, his smile crimps the tube in his nose. 
IRV What are you doing back here? 
CRIS I came to fix you dinner. 
IRV Idiot. 
Irv pulls Cris inside. Closes the door. 
INT. irv's house - night 
They embrace like father and son. The oxygen tube gets in the way. 
IRV This is what you get from two packs a day. 
CrIS But you quit ten years ago. 
IRV It was already too late. I just didn't know it. 
CRIS Sometimes not knowing is better. 
Irv shakes his head. 
IRV Look where you're headed, pal. The big decisions are over before you even realize you made `em. 
INT. The finish line - back room - night 
Cavanaugh and Ferris chat with Guy. This time the poker game is in progress. 
CaVANAUGH Any idea where he might be going? 
Guy turns to Ferris. 
GUY I've got a little problem with the IRS. Think I could get some relief? 
FERRIS Depends how helpful you are. 
GuY Oh, I know everything about him. 
He looks at Ferris, knowing. She turns to Cavanaugh. 
FERRIS I need to speak to him alone. 
INT. FINISH LINE - MAIN PARLOR - NIGHT 
Guy and Ferris sip cappucino. 
GUY And another thing, no woman ever turns him down, I'm serious. Mainly because he only propositions the ones he knows'll say yes, which is most of `em anyway. But does that make him happy? No. Says he's bored. Never surprised. Has to watch himself die over and over again. 
FERRIS Why'd he come back to Vegas? 
GUY Didn't say, but I'm guessin' it's this friend who's dying. An old fart who took him in when he was strung out on drugs. - He's an orphan, ya know. Been on the road since he was ten. 
INT. Irv's house / living room - night 
The place is a mess. Piles of newspapers. Old clothes. Cris cleans up as they talk. Irv sits at a table and plays solitaire. 
IRV You want my advice? Get yourself a good lawyer and turn yourself in. 
CRIS If I tell `em the truth, you know what happens? I end up with the Feds. - And you know what they do to me? 
IRV Make you a secret agent. 
Cris Don't laugh. They strap me in a chair and make me watch the news. 
IRV Dan Rather or Peter Jennings? 
CRIS It's not funny, Irv. That's all I do, day after day, for the rest of my life. Watch the news until I lose my hair and croak. 
Irv is moved by Cris' dilemma. 
Irv There's no way around it? 
CRIS Trust me, it's better if I don't. It's better if I just mind my own business. 
Ferris looks at him, disapproving. 
FERRIS I'll be honest with you, Cris. That's not an option. Your country needs you. And if we don't grab you, somebody else will. 
CRIS Nobody's grabbed me yet. 
Ferris You're up against more powerful forces now. 
She lets that sink in. 
FERRIS I'd like you to come with me for some testing. Would you be willing to do that? 
Cris's expression grows dark. He looks at Ferris accusingly, then BOLTS away, toward the KITCHEN. 
FERRIS Where are you going? 
Cris covers his eyes and dives to the floor as STUN GRENADES shatter windows and explode with a FLASH. 
FERRIS (temporarily blinded) Shit! Cavanaugh! 
Gas grenades follow. 
Cris scrambles to his feet as a NEVADA POLICE SWAT TEAM bursts through windows and doors, wearing gas masks and goggles, scanning with laser-guided rifles. They find Cris, dashing for the back door. Open fire. 
Cris tumbles, dodges a few bullets, then takes a hit in the shoulder, the back, the leg. Staggers forward. Absorbs dozens of bullets. 
Falls. 
Lies there. 
Dying. 
Cavanaugh steps up to deliver the final shot. 
SNAPBACK TO: 
INT. Irv's house / living room - an hour AGO 
IRV In that case, you've gotta leave the country. 
CRIS I know, I know, I've got the place picked out. But there's something I've gotta do first. 
IRV What? 
Cris doesn't answer. His gaze is distant. 
IRV Cris? 
Cris focuses. 
CRIS I have to go. 
IRV You just got here. 
CRIS I know, but they're coming for me. 
Cris takes the pack of cash he got from Guy, pulls out more than half the bills, and sets them on a table. 
CRIS This is for nurses and stuff, to make things a little easier. 
IRV You're gonna need it. 
Cris shakes his head and embraces Irv. 
CrIS You're the only one I could trust. Ever. 
They're both choked up. 
IRV I don't suppose you've discovered any last minute escape for me? 
CRIS I looked, Irv, I really did. I went down every path, every treatment. Sometimes there's just no... 
IRV It's okay. It's okay...Now I can relax. 
A last look. 
Ext. irv's street - dAY 
Cris' approaches his parked Camaro with his key out. CAVANAUGH and SIX TROOPERS spring from hiding, guns trained on him. 
Camera pans to cris 
In Irv's back yard, watching this scene. 
Ext. ALLEY BEHIND IRV'S HOUSE - DAY 
A State Trooper keeps watch, smoking. When he steps on the butt, Cris enters the frame in the background. When the Trooper turns to a wall to piss, Cris crosses the alley, unseen. When Cris passes out of frame, the Trooper finishes, unaware of what he has missed. 
Ext. outskirts of vegas - night 
A Route 66-vintage highway with stop lights and tawdry commercial development. Cris stands on the shoulder, thumbing a ride. Cars and trucks pass without stopping. 
FAST FOWARD through endless traffic until an OLD CHEVROLET pulls over. Cris checks his watch. It's 8:23. 
Snapback TO: 
SIDE OF THE ROAD 
Chris checks his watch. It's 7:57. 
Cris (to himself) Twenty-four minutes. 
He looks around. Sees a donut shop. Heads toward it. 
INT. Irv's house - night 
Cavanaugh's State Troopers, guns drawn, are searching the place on a hair-trigger, ready to blow away anything that moves. 
LIZ Great, what do I have to do? 
CRIS You don't have to do anything. 
Cris glances outside and sees the old Chevrolet drive by without stopping. He checks his watch. It's 8:23. 
CRIS But I could use a ride. 
She knows she shouldn't. 
INT. JEEP CHEROKEE / on highway - nIGHT 
Going fast. Johnny Cash on the CD. 
LIZ When does the luck kick in? 
CRIS It already has. 
LIZ I don't feel anything. 
CRIS Not even a tingle? 
LIZ Son, I haven't had a tingle in eight months. 
He waits for the other shoe to drop. 
Liz (can't hold it in) Since my worthless no-good dickhead of a husband ran out on me. 
CRIS Then you're way overdue. For a reversal of fortune. 
Brake lights flare on the cars ahead. They pass an exit. 
CRIS Any kids? 
LIZ Thirty. (off his look) I teach fifth grade. 
CRIS I mean of your own. 
She shakes her head. 
CRIS I guess that's good. Considering. 
LIZ No, that was the problem. - I couldn't get pregnant. 
Traffic is backed up. 
CRIS I'm sorry. I didn't mean to pry. 
LIZ You didn't. I'm just running off at the mouth. - That's why I was in Vegas. To see another doctor. 
Flashing yellow lights - a barricade. Cris is getting nervous. 
CRIS He didn't want to adopt? 
LIZ No, he had to have a Randy Junior. 
Flashing blue lights - parked cop cars. 
LIZ What, is there an accident? 
The place is crawling with state troopers. Cris is looking around for a way out. 
SnAPBACK TO: 
one MINUTE EARLIER - one mile back 
LIZ When does the luck kick in? 
CRIS It already has. 
LIZ I don't feel anything. 
Brake lights flare on the cars ahead. 
CRIS (urgent) Take this exit. Quick! 
LIZ Why? 
CRIS Just take it! 
The dotted lines on the road are now solid. 
LIZ It's too late! 
CRIS No it's not! 
Cris grabs the steering wheel and jerks it to the right, sending them over some speed bumps onto the off ramp. 
LIZ Let go! Are you out of your mind?! 
She slams on the brakes and they screech to a stop on the right shoulder of the exit ramp. 
LIZ Get out! 
Cris scrambles for an explanation. Looks, sees a quieu of brake lights from the roadblock now backed up past the exit. 
CRIS Traffic was piling up. You didn't see it? 
LIZ GET OUT!! 
CRIS We could'a been stuck there for hours. 
LIZ I don't give a flyin' goddamn! You don't grab the steering wheel! 
Cris pauses for a beat. Takes a different tack. 
CRIS You're right. I'm sorry. I panicked. I get phobic sitting in traffic. It won't happen again, I promise. 
LIZ Damn straight, cause you won't be in the car! 
LIZ Hey, George. 
Bartender Hey, Liz. 
LIZ I'll take the usual and he'll have a... 
CRIS Sierra Pale. 
The Bartender and Liz exchange a look. 
Bartender Two Sierras. 
As he draws two pints, the Bartender leans toward Liz. 
BartENDER Randy's been hanging around. 
LIZ He's not here now, is he? 
Bartender nods toward the pool tables, where RANDY, her ex, plays 8-ball with a pal. 
LIZ Thanks. 
She turns to Cris. 
LIZ We gotta split. My ex is here. 
Cris lays some money on the bar, and they head for the door. But before they get there, Randy sees Liz and bounds after her, holding a pool cue. He's much bigger and taller than Cris. 
Randy I gotta talk to you, baby. 
LIZ Sure, Randy. I'll call you tomorrow. 
She tries to slide by him. Randy blocks the way. 
Randy Bullshit. I've left a dozen messages on your phone. 
Cris steps between them. 
Cris Excuse me. We were just leaving. 
Randy And who the hell are you? 
Cris stands his ground. Locks eyes. 
Liz Don't mess with him, Cris. He used to play hockey. 
CRIS Just a friend. 
Randy Then don't get between me and my woman. 
LIZ I'm not yours anymore, asshole! 
Randy Baby, I've made a terrible mistake, and I just want to undo all the... 
Randy holds Liz by the shoulders. 
liz Let go! 
RANDY You still care for me, I know it. 
Liz resists. Cris grips Randy's arm. 
CRIS Easy, man. 
Randy hauls off to slug Cris. Cris easily ducks the blow and answers with a solid punch to the belly. 
Randy recovers and realizes he's up against a skilled opponent. He takes a stance, ready to get serious. He sticks a few jabs at Cris, who easily slips from each one, like he saw them coming a mile away. Randy goes for a hook. Cris feints and lands an uppercut to Randy's chin. Most men would go down, but Randy is so big, he stays up to take more punishment. 
Cris delivers an elegant beating that humiliates the big guy and makes him look like an oaf. Cris puts an end to it by breaking Randy's nose. The big guy falls to his knees, bleeding. 
Liz rushes to Randy's side, holding her ex and glowering up at Cris like he's a sadistic brute. 
LIZ Get out of here! Get out! 
Cris realizes he's blown it. 
SNAPBACK TO: 
MOMENTS BEFORE 
RANDY You still care for me, I know it. 
Liz resists. Cris grips Randy's arm. 
CRIS Easy, man. 
Randy hauls off to slug Cris, who this time makes no effort to duck. WHAM! Cris takes a sledgehammer in the mouth. Randy follows up mercilessly, punching Cris in the gut, then holding him up while he punches him again. 
Liz grabs Randy's arm. 
LIZ Stop it, Randy! Stop it! 
Randy flings her aside and finishes up   with a solid right to Cris' jaw, that puts him on the floor.   Randy pulls back his leg for a pointy-booted cowboy kick to   the ribs, when Liz rushes to Cris' side and glowers up at   Randy like he's a sadistic brute. 
LIZ Get out of here! Get out! 
Randy realizes he's blown it -- and lets himself be pulled out of the bar by a couple of buddies. 
Liz examines Cris with concern. 
LIZ Oh God, I'll take you to the emergency room. 
CRIS No ho'pital. I don' nee' ho'pital. 
LIZ God, I hate that bastard...Will somebody get some ice! 
She strokes Cris' hair. 
Ext. Liz's cottage - night 
Their lovemaking unfolds as it would be experienced by Cris. Effect before cause. The pleasure, then the gesture that elicits it. 
Cris explores her body until she sighs, then snapsback and goes directly to the sweet spot. He strings together a perfect melody of shudders and moans, without striking any false notes along the way. 
Moments are superimposed, diaphonous, played against each other in counterpoint. 
Visual harmonics, elastically out-of-sync. Rising to a crescendo. Until all the futures resolve into a single now. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
AFTERWARDS - nIGHT 
Floating in bed. Her head on his chest. His eyes open, sadly content, like he wishes he could stop time here forever. Like he's afraid it will all disappear if he takes his eyes off her. 
LIZ That was...I've never... 
Cris forces himself to look away into the distance. 
int. WISDOM'S OFFICE / federal facility - night 
Wisdom, exhausted, quietly confers with a cadre of ANALYSTS AND OPERATIVES. Their voices are confident, but their body language betrays their pessimism. 
expert 1 We sent the payload to Livermore, and by measuring the cesium degradation, they've identified the reactor in Smerlensk that it came from. 
expert 2 Washington has our birds tracking for that radiation signature in key cities. 
Ferris slips in and takes an empty chair. 
wisdom What do we know about the explosive? 
Expert 3 Our lab downstairs is still studying the C-4 sample. It's Czech, but we haven't nailed down the batch. 
Wisdom rubs his forehead, distraught. 
WISDOM So basically we've got nothing. 
No one disagrees. 
WISDOM You're failing your country, people. You're not trying hard enough. (looks around the table) Do you understand what I'm saying? Do you understand what I expect from you? 
The staff exchange uncertain glances. 
WisDOM TWIST ARMS! CRACK HEADS! BREAK THE FUCKIN' LAW! BUT DON'T LET THIS HAPPEN! 
He has blown them wide-eyed. 
WISDOM (suddenly calm) Are there any questions? 
INT. WISDOM'S apartment - NIGHT 
Ferris and Wisdom are in night gear, getting ready for bed. She sees that he's disheartened. 
FERRIS You know you're very sexy when you're ruthless. 
WISDOM We're groping in the dark. 
FERRIS My guy's got a flashlight. We just need to bring him in. 
Wisdom doesn't have the energy to fight her any more. 
WISDOM I'll see if Baines can spare some manpower. 
She's gracious in victory. 
FERRIs You're all the manpower I need. 
INT. Liz's house - bedroom - morning 
Head on pillow, Liz buds from sleep. Reaches out. Cris is gone. Her eyes open, fearful. 
INT. LIZ'S KITCHEN - MORNING 
She rushes in, looking for Cris. - He's not there. 
She hears CLANKING from the laundry room. 
On the floor, Cris sits next to the heater, which lies in pieces. He tries to adjust the remaining apparatus. 
LIZ What the hell are you doing? 
CRIS You said it was broken. 
LIZ Well, you're not leaving till it's fixed, I'll tell you that. 
He smiles archly. 
crIS I'm afraid that could take a while. 
Now she understands his strategy. 
LIZ As long as it's done right. 
INT. HOMELAND SECURITY - workshop - DAY 
Ferris enters the area where weapons are stored and where mechanics build whatever the department needs. She interrupts Baines as he gives instructions to some MP's. These are his guys who get priority over the civilian Protective Service Police. 
FeRRIS Did Wisdom talk to you? 
BaiNES (grudging) What do you need? 
FERRIS This one first. 
She hands him a sketch. He studies it, perplexed. 
BAINES What is it? 
FERRIS A trap for somebody who can see the future. 
BAINES If you say so. 
He adores her more than ever, and fears losing her even more. 
CRIS Your students are very lucky. 
She puts her hand on his. 
LIZ Now I've got to grade papers. 
Ext. Church - DAY 
Liz and Cris file by the PASTOR after the service and mill about on the lawn with the other congregants. Kids release pent up energy in the adjacent park. 
Randy approaches Cris. 
Randy A religious fella, are you? Ready to turn the other jaw? 
Cris offers his profile for hitting. 
CRIS But then you have to sign the divorce papers. 
LiZ Randy, don't you dare. 
She drags Cris towards a YOUNG COUPLE WITH KIDS. 
Liz Paul, Janice. Have you met Cris? 
RANDY 
approaches RICK, a young LOCAL POLICEMAN who's not the sharpest knife in the drawer. 
Randy There's something weird about that jerk. Have you checked him out? 
Policeman RICK I'm not dragging the Law into your romantic squabbles, Randy. 
Randy C'mon, Rick, help me out here. 
Ext. church - DAY 
Paul and Janice are chatting with Cris and Liz. 
Paul Cris, are you free on Tuesday? Cause I'd like you to be my guest at the Rotary luncheon. 
Janice I'm the first female member. 
Cris grows distracted. Out the corner of his eye, he sees a SPORTS CAR gunning it down the street, passing a SUNDAY DRIVER to beat a red light. At that moment, a kid misses a catch and a BASEBALL rolls into a street, where a twenty-ish WOMAN JOGGER runs over to get it, just as the sports car passes the Sunday driver, sees the jogger, and skids, forcing A BUS to swerve and plow into a GROUP OF PEOPLE standing at the corner. 
SNAPBACK TO: 
A FEW SECONDS EARLIER 
Paul Cris, are you free on Tuesday? Cause I'd like you to be my guest at the Rotary luncheon. 
Janice I'm the first female member. 
Cris is spaced out. 
LIZ Cris. 
Ignoring them, Cris turns toward the street where he saw the accident take place. He sees kids, but they're jumping rope. Wrong group. He scans around and finds the kids who are playing softball. Someone misses a catch. The ball rolls toward the street. The sports car is now coming fast. The woman jogger sees the errant ball and runs to fetch it. 
CrIS Miss! Lady! Don't! 
She's wearing earbuds and can't hear him. He's too far away to grab her. He's closer to the approaching sports car. Cris picks up a rock, prepares to throw, hesitates a beat, squints.... 
He throws. Misses. Snapback. Throws. Misses. Snapback. Again. Again. Scores a hit. Snapback. Opens his eyes and hurls the stone. 
Liz and the bystanders watch, appalled, as the rock SHATTERS the driver side window of the sportscar, which instead of skidding, screeches to a halt. The bus drives by without incident, injuring no one. 
The Driver of the sportscar bursts from his car and furiously charges Cris. 
CrIS I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll pay for the damages. 
The Driver curses Cris and tries to grab and hit him. But Cris deftly deflects the blows so that they seem harmless. 
CRIS I said I'll pay. 
Realizing he can't land a punch, the Driver changes tack. 
DRIVER You're damn right you'll pay! I wanna talk to the cops. 
CRIS No need for that. I'll give you cash. Okay? Will you take cash? 
He pulls out his wallet. 
CriS Two thousand? That should cover it. 
DRIVER Make it three. 
CRIS Okay, three. 
He digs in his pocket and pulls out the stack of hundreds. 
ON RANDY and POLICEMAN RICK 
Who have seen the whole incident. 
POLICEMAN riCK I'll run him through the computer. 
ext. Park - a minute later 
Away from the crowd. Liz, concerned and alienated, walks a step to the side of Cris. 
criS People shouldn't drive that fast around kids. They shouldn't get away with it. 
LIZ So you throw rocks at them? 
CRIS What do you want me to do? Wait for people to die? 
Liz is torn. 
POLICEMAN RICK She's quite a challenge. 
EXT. PARK - daY 
Liz and Cris, still walking, holding hands. 
LIZ I swear, I can't figure you out. 
CRIS Believe me, the feeling is mutual. 
LIZ Sometimes you seem mindlessly impulsive. But other times I feel like you're utterly calculating, saying exactly what you think'll push my buttons. 
CRIS What do you mean? 
LIZ Don't you think it's kind of an amazing coincidence that neither of us can have kids? 
CRIS You want to talk to my doctor? I'll get him on the phone. No, really, I mean it. I'll have him send you my records. Because I want you to trust me. 
He seems so sincere that she dismisses her concerns. 
LIZ Then open up. Talk to me. Where are you going with your life? 
Cris seems unprepared for the question. 
crIS Wherever it takes me. 
LiZ You never think about the future? 
CRIS All the time. - But mainly how to stay out of trouble. 
LIZ No goals? Dreams? Ambitions? 
CRIS There's only one thing I've ever wanted. 
LIZ What's that? 
CRIS A family. 
She seems disappointed. 
LIZ That's all? Just a family? 
CRIS Well, I was, as they say, left on a doorstep when I was two. (makes light of it) Never found foster parents who could put up with me. - So to me, a family sounds like plenty. 
That certainly pressed her buttons again. 
LIZ You've got to be making this up. 
CRIS I wish. 
She rests her head on his shoulder. 
LIZ You poor guy. 
Ext. Hillside overlooking park - DAY 
Still watching Cris and Liz as the couple get into her car. 
CAVANAUGH I say we get the whole department up here and bust his ass. 
Ferris And by that time, his ass'll be long gone. 
CAVANAUGH Then why won't he see through your trap? 
Ferris takes a deep breath. 
Ferris Let's try this one more time. 
ext. old SHOPPING CENTER - daY 
Grocery, drug store, hardware, gas station. Liz and Cris get out of her Jeep. He heads for the grocery store. 
LIZ I'll meet you inside. I need to pick something up at the drug store. 
They split up. 
Ext. Across the street - unmarked car - DAY 
Ferris, Cavanaugh, and Policeman Rick watch the couple go their separate ways. Ferris gets out. 
FERRIS Stay in the car. If he sees your shadow, he won't take the bait. 
CaVANAUGH We hear you. 
Ferris I'm serious. This guy can smell your farts before you even eat the beans. 
rick Miss, I won't even think about beans. 
Ferris gets out of the car. Cavanaugh and Rick stay put. 
Rick Sounds like a crock to me. 
CAVANAUGH You haven't been chasing him for three years. 
INT. DrugSTORE - DAY 
Liz is in the female department, trying to choose between various brands when Ferris approaches. 
Ferris Miss Cooper. 
LIZ Yes? 
FERRIS Agent Ferris. 
Ferris shows her badge. Homeland Security. Liz, frightened, is ready to listen. 
INT. Drug store - dAY 
Ferris and Liz huddle in a quiet corner. Liz is in shock from what she has just heard. 
LIZ Yeah. 
CRIS No. I think we're just the last in a long chain of accidents that started with the Big Bang. 
LIZ That's not very romantic. 
CRIS Oh, but it is. Think of it: For us to meet, everything from the very beginning, every sub-atomic event, every galactic cataclysm, every step of evolution, every act, every accident, every decision in the history of the universe had to happen exactly the way it did just so you and I could be together, right here and now. 
She is moved by his words, but they make her strangely sad. 
Cris pours two glasses of Scotch. Hands one to Liz. 
CRIS To whatever happens next. 
She doesn't drink. 
LIZ I shouldn't. 
CRIS (concerned) Why? 
LIZ I'm late. 
CRIS Late? 
LIZ That's why I went to the drug store. To get a pregnancy test. 
Off his puzzlement, she hands him a small plastic tab. 
A SQUARE CROSS is coming into focus. 
He recognizes the image from the Donut Shop display case just before he met Liz for the first time. 
LIZ You know what this means? 
CRIS I do now. 
They look at each other, equally perplexed. 
LIZ How did it...? 
CRIS I have no idea. Unless...But that still doesn't explain... 
She struggles to make sense of it. 
CRIS Liz, I really did have this problem. I wasn't lying to you. 
He can't read her reaction. 
CRIS But this is good. This is amazing. I want this baby more than anything. 
She looks at him, emotional. 
LIZ It's like a miracle. 
CRIS For both of us. 
She lets him hold her. 
EXT. AROUND THE MOUNTAIN - NIGHT 
State Troopers are camped out in two's and three's. Fifty of them. Plus Baines' SIX MP's, wearing different uniforms. 
INT. cabin - Bedroom - night 
Liz and Cris in bed. Her head on his chest. This time he's the one sleeping while she lies awake. 
Ext. STAKEOUT SITE - NIGHT 
Ferris and Baines sip coffee and wait. They find each other attractive. 
baines Think she'll come through? 
Ferris shakes her head with certainty. 
FERRIS Women hate good-looking men. Rejecting them makes us feel powerful. 
Baines And that's more important than love? 
FERRIS No. But she doesn't really love him. 
INT. cabin - Bedroom - night 
Liz eases away from Cris, trying not to wake him. He stirs...but settles back into slumber. She slithers out of bed and tiptoes to the bathroom. Silently closes the door behind her. 
INT. Bathroom - night 
Liz stands there in the dark, heart pounding. She sees that the window is open. She looks at it, deciding. 
INT. cabin - DAY 
The morning sun on Cris' sleeping face. His foot slides in search of Liz. Not finding her, he opens his eyes. Checks the clock. 10:09 AM. 
CriS Liz... Liz? 
No answer. He walks to the bedroom door. 
Locked. He tries to force it. Won't budge. 
Tries the window. Bars across it - that weren't there before. Shakes them. Solidly bolted. Looks outside. No one's around. He's about to shout, but stops himself. 
Runs into the bathroom. Bars over that window, too. As he stands there, trapped, Ferris steps into view outside. 
FERRIS Surprise. 
Snapback TO: 
INT. Cabin - night 
Cris' eyes flash open in bed. Liz isn't there. 
She gathers her courage and steps to the open window. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Everyone is coiled, waiting for Ferris to give the word. Cavanaugh is on the radio with his men, ready to pass it on. 
Ferris takes a last look through the nightvision binoculars. That's when Liz climbs awkwardly out of the bathroom window in her bathrobe. 
Ferris She's coming now. (to Cavanaugh) We stay put. Tell them. 
CAVANAUGH (disappointed, via radio) We stand pat till notified. Don't make a sound. 
When Liz is out of the cabin, Ferris activates the remote control. 
ALL AROUND THE CABIN 
Doors lock and bars slide into place almost inaudibly. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Ferris shines a flashlight toward Liz, on off. She heads in the general direction of the light, but stops BEHIND A THICK- TRUNKED OAK TREE, which blocks her from their view. 
BEHIND THE OAK tree 
Cris backs out from under Liz's robe. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Ferris, Cavanaugh, Baines, and Rick shine their flashlights on the oak tree, waiting for Liz to reappear. 
FERRIS What's she waiting for? 
Liz steps into view from behind the oak tree. Ferris shines the light towards her again. She heads straight toward them. 
ON LIZ 
As predicted, the hem of her robe gets caught in the thorns. She tries to pull free, but she's stuck. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Ferris and Baines wade into the thicket to extricate her. 
Among the thorns 
Ferris and Baines reach Liz. 
Ferris You've done your country a great service. 
The predicted words hit her hard. 
LIZ Then why do I feel like a traitor? 
Ferris and Baines free her and lead her up the hill. 
BEHIND THE OAK TREE 
Cris scurries away, using the sound of their rustling to cover his escape. 
ext. Forest - night 
Cris scurries near a trio of STATE TROOPERS. He steps on a twig which SNAPS loudly. PAN BACK to find a SECOND CRIS approaching down the same path. Cris 1 dissolves as Cris 2 steps around the twig and continues undetected. 
A few steps on, Cris 2 slips on mud and slides noisily down a slope. PAN BACK to find CRIS 3, who detours onto stepping stones then rejoins the original path, undetected. 
STAKEOUT SITE 
Baines and Ferris help Liz back to their camp. 
Ferris Rick, get her some coffee. 
Liz pulls the note from her robe pocket and reads Cris' handwriting: "Then why do I feel like a traitor?" 
CAVANAUGH (relays a message) We've got movement in the canyon. (to radio) Where are you? 
A flashlight shines up at Cavanaugh from the canyon. 
Ferris and Baines scan their infra-red scopes at the area. 
FERRIS' INFRARED POV: 
A hot human shape hurries over rough terrain with stealthy urgency. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Ferris and Baines looking through their scopes. 
bAINES She told him. 
CAVANAUGH We tried it your way. 
Ferris Go for it. But I want him alive. 
Cavanaugh picks up the radio with evident satisfaction. 
CAVANAUGH Boys, now it's our turn. 
FIFTY SEARCHLIGHTS BLAZE ON and stab through the forest. 
FERRIS I want him alive. Tell them. 
CaVANAUGH (afterthought, to radio) And the Feds want him alive. 
Ferris urgently takes Baines aside. 
Ferris We need to get to him first. 
TROOPERS 
Spread out through the steep terrain. SEARCHLIGHT BEAMS sweep over the landscape. 
SNAPBACK TO: 
Cris rushes the Third Trooper, who hesitates, frightened, then shoots -- and misses. Cris charges up to him, knocks his shooting arm away, takes his weapon, uses him a shield, then fires at a Fourth Trooper as he charges out from the trees. It's Cavanaugh, now covered in blood. 
SnaPBACK TO: 
Cris uses Trooper Three as a shield, but when Cavanaugh comes charging from the trees, Cris DOESN'T FIRE. Instead he shoves Trooper Three at Cavanaugh, sending them both tumbling down a slope. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Another setback. 
BAINES Damn. Fifty men might not be enough. 
FERRIS Somehow we've got to bring him down to our level. 
BaINES Got any ideas? 
FERRIS I'm workin' on it. 
IN THE FOREST 
Cris crosses a ridge that leads him into steep ravine. He can't get back up. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Baines and Ferris listen to the police band. Liz stands nearby. She can hear the patter. 
BAINES He's crossed over into Maxwell Gorge. 
FERRIS Move in fast. Keep him moving. Don't let him rest. 
Then it hits her. 
FERRIS Don't give him time to look ahead. That's the key. 
EXT. MAXWELL GORGE - NIGHT 
Slowly making his way through the steep redwood-covered slopes, Cris hears a NOISE. Looks up. Sees a STATE POLICE SUV CRASHING down the cliff across the Gorge. 
SNAPBACK TO: 
MAXWELL GORGE - NOW 
Cris, catching his breath against a redwood, opens his eyes and looks back toward his approaching pursuers. He looks around the gorge, searching for the cliff where he FORESAW the SUV come crashing down. He recognizes the rock formations across the gorge. He heads in that direction. PAN UP and we see that the cliff is directly under the... 
StakEOUT SITE 
Baines steps closer to the edge and looks down. 
BAINES He's heading this way. 
Ferris, suddenly confident, shouts into the radio. 
feRRIS Cavanaugh! We've got a fox hunt going in Maxwell Gorge, right beneath the stakeout. Throw everybody into it! We need to overload him! 
Liz looks around for some way to help. She spots the State Police SUV that we saw crashing down the hillside. She sidles toward it. 
MAXWELL GORGE 
Thirty Troopers and Six MP's are converging on Cris. 
FerrIS (o.c.) Gentlemen, if he surrenders, fine, cuff him. But if he even shivers, shoot to kill. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Liz opens the door of the SUV, shifts into neutral, and starts pushing. - It's too heavy to budge. 
MAXWELL GORGE 
Cris moves toward a field of LARGE BOULDERS. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Slowly, with great effort, Liz gets the SUV to inch forward. 
MAXWELL GORGE 
Troopers and MP's are closing in on Cris. 
CaVANAUGH (megaphone) Lie down on your stomach, hands behind your head! You've got ten seconds. Ten seconds and we shoot. 
Cris climbs in among the large boulders, glances up, and waits for the future to happen. 
StakEOUT SITE 
Liz gets the SUV onto a slight downslope, and it picks up speed. 
Baines and Ferris see the SUV rumbling straight toward them. They dive out of the way as the SUV plunges over the ledge. 
MAXWELL GORGE 
Troopers and MP's are advancing toward Cris, about to open fire. 
CAVANAUGH This is your last warning. 
Thirty Troopers and MP's have their fingers on the trigger when the SUV sails over the ledge and plummets straight down towards them. Cris crouches down among the boulders just as the SUV crashes on top of him, then tumbles toward his hunters, who scatter. 
Cris makes a run for it just as the SUV explodes in a fireball. 
STAKEOUT SITE 
Ferris and Baines watch the events below. 
fERRIS Keep after him! Quick! Stay on him! 
While they are distracted, Liz climbs into the front seat of RICK'S POLICE CRUISER, cranks it up, slams into reverse, spins, and takes off down the road. 
baines What the...? 
As a Federal Chopper idles, Ferris marks up a ROAD MAP of the area with X's. 
FERRIS (to radio) Cavanaugh, get all your men into town. (waits) Cavanaugh? Tell them. 
Baines approaches. 
BaINES He's dead. Crashed. 
Ferris winces, then moves on like a general in battle. 
FERRIS You take command of the chase. (hands him the map) Have cars block these intersection. 
She heads over to the copter. 
BAINES Why these? 
FERRIS Get in the chopper. 
He follows her inside, and the copter takes off. 
MOUNTAIN ROAD 
Cris takes blind curves at high speed. 
CRIS Did the doctors ever say why you couldn't have kids? 
LIZ I grew up at Love Canal. 
CRIS What's that? 
LIZ A neighborhood back East built over a chemical dump. A bunch of my friends had birth defects. (looks back) I always figured I was lucky just to be sterile. 
CRIS Except you're not. And neither am I. We're different, that's all. We just had to find the right match. 
A look between them. 
LIZ And somehow we did. 
They approach the entrance to the town. 
EXT. hendersonville - DAWN 
Police vehicles converge on the area, systematically blocking the intersections that Ferris indicated. 
Rick's Police Cruiser 
Cris threads his way through town, zigging and zagging down streets and alleys. 
FROM THE HELICOPTER 
Ferris sees Cris maneuvering perfectly through the maze, avoiding imminent traps and confrontation. 
BAINES (discouraged) He doesn't miss a beat. 
FERRIS (pleased, to herself) Come to momma. 
Cris dodges another trap. 
FERRIS (to radio) Stay after him. Keep the pressure on. 
The bypassed police cars chase after Rick's stolen Cruiser, which leaves town on a street that merges with a WINDY NARROW CANYONSIDE ROAD. 
BAINES (incredulous) He's driving right into it... 
Up ahead, beyond a blind curve, the road leads to a ONE-LANE BRIDGE over a DEEP CHASM with RAGING RAPIDS at the bottom. 
BAINES Sometimes looking one step ahead isn't enough. 
On the FAR SIDE OF THE BRIDGE, out of sight, beyond a curve, EIGHT STATE POLICE CARS form a barricade across the road. 
INT. Rick's Police Cruiser - DAY 
Having escaped from town, Cris and Liz share a glimmer of relief. 
LIZ You make it look easy. 
Cris' expression darkens. 
CRIS Oh shit. Oh no. 
Liz What is it? 
CRIS I blew it. 
They round a curve and the NARROW BRIDGE comes into view. 
FAR SIDE OF BRIDGE 
Behind the barricade, Ferris' helicopter comes in for a landing. 
INT. Rick's Police Cruiser - DAY 
Cris checks his rearview mirror. A six-pack of cop cars are right behind him. To his left, a steep rock wall. To his right, a vertical drop-off into the canyon. 
Cris drives on, the blood draining from his face. 
FAR SIDE OF THE BRIDGE 
Ferris strides across the span, Baines in her wake. Arriving at the barricade, she approaches the biggest state police car, a HUMMER -- and flashes her badge. 
FERRIS I need your vehicle. 
She walks through the Trooper and gets into his Hummer. 
BAINES What's the plan? 
FERRIS Playing chicken. 
BAINES Don't be stupid! He knows what you'll do! 
Baines gives the signal and the dozen waiting MP's charge in through the door, rifles at the ready. The foreseen attack is now beginning in real time. 
INT. White room 
The MP's surround Cris, as foreseen. He remains in the center of them, crouched, motionless. 
For a long beat, they just stand there, rifles aimed at their frozen quarry. 
wiSDOM (plasma screen) Cris, don't you feel some sense of obligation to the rest of us? Your ability could save so many lives. 
Cris suddenly attacks...and with perfect economy of movement, like a diver executing thirteen twists in the second before he hits the water, Cris executes the previous routine with a new "finale" and... 
Elegantly slips past all the MP's into the hall - and slams the door behind him, locking them in! 
The escape has the quality of magic. It takes a beat for the MP's to realize what has happened. 
oBSERVATION BOOTH 
Wisdom and Ferris are agog. 
wISDOM What happened? - You idiots! 
Ferris draws her gun and charges down the stairs. 
OUTSIDE white room 
Cris is waiting for her and somehow he has her gun in his hand. 
CrIS Don't make me do what I can do. 
Cris spins and shoots Wisdom in the shin as he starts down the stairs. Wisdom collapses. 
CRIS Don't get too attached to your arms and legs. 
Cris spins and gets the drop on Baines. 
CrIS Don't. 
Baines sets down his gun. Cris takes off. 
WISDOM Don't let him out of here alive. 
Baines opens the door to the White Room. MP's stampede out in hot pursuit. 
baINES Isolate the building. If there's one exit overlooked, he'll know it. 
FERRIS If there's one soft heart, one slow shooter, he'll know it. 
Ferris attends to Wisdom, bleeding on the stairs. 
FeRRIS Don't worry. I caught him once; I'll catch him again. 
WISDOM Be careful. I don't want anything to happen to you. 
They care about each other more than they've let on. 
corridors 
Cris. Running. MP's and general Security Police close behind. No place to hide. Soldiers open fire. Cris dives for the floor, tumbles, gets to his feet, serpentines, and ends up behind a door that opens at the moment, as if by mental command, shielding him from gunfire. 
Security Police pour out from the other side. Cris reaches around and grabs someone's gun. He opens fire, buying himself enough cover to get to a doorway. 
Cris stops, thinks, then charges out shooting, fighting, running -- completing a condensed burst of four impossible tasks that get him to the next point of refuge. 
He waits, thinks, charges and, with another burst of choreographed action, makes it into an elevator whose doors conveniently open at that moment. He darts inside, keeps shooting, presses certain buttons - starting several stories up, and waits for the doors to close. 
Sergeant You five, up. You five, down. The rest stay with me. 
INT. SURVEILLANCE ROOM - DAY 
Banks of monitors, each containing a grid of mini-frames containing the pov of a surveillance camera -- hundreds in all. LEO, the Soldier at the console, is twitchy and hyper- alert. 
Leo watches as the Security Forces split up. He scans the monitors to see where Cris will resurface. 
INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 
Cris climbs up through the ceiling panel. 
INT. Elevator shaft - DAY 
When the elevator stops, he rips open a VENTILLATION DUCT and climbs inside. 
OUTSIDE WHITE ROOM 
DR. FIELDING approaches Wisdom with a syringe. 
WISDOM No demerol. I need to be alert. 
FERRIS Get him a local. 
Amanda, Ferris' junior analyst, rushes in with lab reports. 
amanda You asked for these as soon as they were ready. 
FERRIS Not now. 
amanda You might want to check this result. 
She points to a particular page. Impatient, Ferris reads. Her eyes widen. 
FeRRIS How pregnant? 
amanda A few days. 
Ferris turns to Wisdom. 
FERRIS This is getting interesting. We have a mating pair. 
WISDOM Secure the female. 
At one dim exit, he lies on the ground, charred and dead, next to the gauntlet of MP's he has tried to outrun. 
Wisdom's office 
Wisdom and Baines are looking at each other, appalled, then turn to Ferris. 
WISDOM You want me to threaten to kill a pregnant woman? 
FERRIS Threats don't count. When he foresees that you actually did kill her, that she's dead... (beat) He won't let it happen. - He'll come to us. Surrender. And she'll live. 
Wisdom regards her with perverse admiration. 
FERRIS But it only works if we're not bluffing. Because he'll know. 
Wisdom considers the decision that lies ahead for him. 
INT. NEAR THE LOBBY - DAY 
Cris is still trying to get out the front door, but there's one Soldier, call him CRACK SHOT, who kills Cris repeatedly. Cris snapsback and tries various tactics, but he can't get past Crack Shot alive. 
He gives up. Turns and runs back into the heart of the building. 
Cris' mental pov expands to include the entire facility, like a crystal doll house. Simultaneously, he is observing every room, present in every room, charting the place, testing possible actions. 
The facility is a bee hive of activity. A bee hive that accelerates to fast forward -- until all times are simultaneous. Until the simultaneous activity is made even denser by the accumulated layers of possibility. 
Cris-134 spies Ferris and Wisdom walking together. He follows them for a while, until he is discovered. Cris-134 fades out. The Ferris and Wisdom who saw him fade out. But another Ferris and Wisdom continue through the building, and their trail gets picked up by Cris-62, who has detoured in order to encounter them. 
As Cris' goals are accomplished, superfluous versions of himself fade away. 
The surveillance of a sequence of Ferris-and-Wisdoms is continued by Cris-91, then Cris-14, who watches as Wisdom and Ferris approach two guards standing outside an INTERROGATION ROOM. We recognize them as the MP's who are guarding Liz, inside. Wisdom is let into the Interrogation Room by the MP's. Ferris proceeds into a nearby office alone. 
SnaPBACK TO: 
vENTILLATION duct 
Cris comes out of his trance. Checks his watch. Sixteen minutes have passed. 
Cris composes his thoughts, takes a breath, then crawls forward, leaving no Cris behind. Now it's for real. 
A moment after he rounds a corner, A FLASHLIGHT BEAM stabs into the duct that he vacated. It scans around. Withdraws. 
NOTE: 
The situations that Cris has just previewed from the Ventillator Shaft constitute the raw material that he will now re-craft into a single narrative: the story of his actual escape attempt, staged in long takes, unfolding in almost- real time. When appropriate, to illustrate Cris' ability, we will portray several locations simultaneously via split- screens which change in number, size, shape, and placement. 
INT. HANDYMAN'S STOREROOM - DAY 
Ceiling. The ventillator grill pops open. Cris drops to the floor. He grabs a backpack conveniently hanging on a hook. Without the slightest hesitation, he goes from shelf to box to drawer, loading particular objects into the backpack. 
CORRIDOR 
Empty. A door opens. Cris steps out into the hall carrying the backpack and a foot stool. He stays close to a wall, steps on the foot stool, and spray-paints over the lens of a surveillance camera. 
SURVEILLANCE ROOM 
Leo spots Cris as he blinds one camera after another. 
Leo I've got him. Third level, building C. Pete, Brian, get up there. Kyle, block off the west staircase. Jason, bring your dogs in from the east. 
CORRIDOR 
SOLDIER PETE and SOLDIER BRIAN charge into an empty corridor and begin their search for Cris. 
A door slams open, bashing Pete in the face. Cris breaks his shooting arm, grabs his M-16, hides behind the door, and sprays bullets low, hitting Brian in the shins. He runs to Brian, breaks his shooting arm, takes his rifle. Drags Brian and Pete into an open room. Tapes their mouths. 
SURVEILLANCE ROOM 
Baines arrives and takes command. 
Leo He was on third level seventy seconds ago. 
BaINES But where is he now? 
INT. WEST STAIRWELL - DAY 
Cris pours floor polish in specific places. 
SOLDIER KYLE and his TROOP charge out off the stairwell. Each one steps directly into the polish and slips. 
As they fall, Cris punches them out or puts them in chokeholds, utilizing the elegant minimum of force or violence. Child's play. As soon as they are unconscious, Cris takes their guns, tear gas, and a gas mask. 
CORRIDOR 
SOLDIER JASON and THREE TROOPS are on the way, each with a GUARD DOG. 
ANOTHER CORRIDOR 
Cris lies in wait for the patrol. When they appear, he is perfectly placed to mace each dog and each soldier with a quick spritz. He goes back and sprays them again, to keep them out of commission. 
Surveillance room 
Cris appears on several screens. 
LEO He's on this floor!...Shit! He's coming here! 
The door opens. A tear gas canister flies in. A moment later, Cris charges in wearing a gas mask. 
He opens fire at the video monitors, shattering every one. 
By the time the MP's are ready to respond, Cris reaches and grabs Baines' handgun. He swings out into the corridor with Baines' gun in his hand...Without looking, his hand aims and shoots several times. 
CORRIDOR 
Emerging into the hallway, Cris looks down at the end of the hall and sees two MP's falling to the floor, wounded. 
Cris wraps electrical tape around the door handle and a pipe on the wall, sealing the room shut, then turns and maces the last of the dogs. 
SURVEILLANCE ROOM 
Soldier He's heading this way. 
CORRIDOR 
Cris charges out of the stairwell, shooting without hesitation - forward, left, right, back - efficiently targeting Security Police in the precise order of their imminent readiness to fire at him. For each bullet, one soldier dies. 
Wisdom's voice comes over the P.A. System. 
WiSDOM (o.S.) Johnson, this is Wisdom. It's 5:55. You have five minutes to turn yourself in... 
Cris and Ferris keep moving. 
Wisdom (o.S.) Or your worst nightmare will happen. 
Cris marches right up to the Interrogation Room where Wisdom holds Liz prisoner, using Ferris as a human shield. 
WisDOM (o.S.) Look ahead if you don't believe me. 
Cris opens the door to the room, revealing Wisdom, Ferris, and thirty Security Police and MP's - who take aim at him and fire. Cris gets chopped to pieces. 
SnAPBACK TO: 
Cris crouches on the floor outside the Interrogation Room, reaches up and opens the door. He gets off a shot at Wisdom, who lives long enough to put a bullet in Liz's heart. 
SnAPBACK TO: 
Cris uses Ferris as a shield, gets off a burst of shots at Wisdom, killing him instantly. 
But a Soldier at Wisdom's side puts a bullet in Liz's heart -- then the thirty Security personnel blast Cris and Ferris to pieces. 
SnAPBACK TO: 
STAIRCASE - ONE MINUTE EARLIER 
Cris, dragging Ferris, arrives at the level of the Interrogation Room and continues down one more flight. 
Using Ferris as a human shield, he shoots his way into... 
INT. FORENSIC LAB - DAY 
Where Cris previously saw the seized barrel of C4 Explosive. He guns down several armed MP's whom he knows would be present, then threatens the technicians. 
CRIS Get out! 
They flee. Cris locks himself and Ferris inside. 
Cris goes over to the bomb. Squints for a beat. IN FAST FORWARD, CONDENSED TIME, MULTIPLE SNAPBACK, he goes through the whole learning curve on bomb detonation, blowing himself up - and snapping back to life -- several times before figuring out the right way to set it off. 
INTERROGATION ROOM 
Wisdom holds Liz at arm's length with his gun pointed at her head. Watching the clock count up to 6:00 PM. It's 5:59:41/ 
THE LAB 
Cris moves the bomb. Closes his eyes for a beat. Moves the bomb again. Closes his eyes. Opens them. Sets the detonator to 10 seconds. 
CORRIDOR OUTSIDE LAB 
MP's wait, preparing to gun down Cris when he emerges. The door opens. Ferris sprints out. 
feRRIS It's going off in ten seconds! 
The crowd flees with her. 
INTERROGATION ROOM 
Wisdom watches the clock count advance. 5:59:55/56/57... 
CORRIDOR 
Now empty. Cris runs for it. Dives. 
INTERROGATION ROOM 
As Wisdom prepares to the pull the trigger, the bomb explodes in a giant cataclysm. 
Smoke and dust 
Roiling. Opaque. Then clearing. 
The center of the building 
is gone. A jagged raw atrium extends several stories down and up. 
To the side, on a narrow ledge of floor extending from a wall...crouches Liz. The only person remaining. She has survived by inches. Very precise. 
As she recovers from the blast, a door opens behind her. Cris appears, extends a hand and helps her from her perch. 
Ext. North vegas airport - night 
A private jet warms up on the tarmac. 
ext. Private jet - night 
Cris and Liz bound up the entry steps, exhausted but elated. 
INT. JET - NIGHT 
At the door, no one is present to greet them. Odd. 
They continue into the main cabin, where Neal, the Showgirl, the Pilots, and the Flight Attendant are glued to the television. Neal sees Cris and Liz, but hardly acknowledges them. He's in shock. They all are. 
Cris and Liz turn to the TV. 
TV NewsCASTER (o.S.) The situation in Chicago is not quite as severe as in the other nine cities where the dirty bombs exploded, as prevailing winds blew the nuclear waste across Lake Michigan rather than straight into town. Radiation levels in Detroit, on the other hand, may require the entire city to be evacuated. 
Liz and Cris look at each other, ashen. 
LIZ This is what they wanted you to prevent? 
