NIGHTBREED 
Written by 
Clive Barker 
Fade In: 
Scene 1. TITLE SEQUENCE 
Darkness. Then, a burst of sparks from a bowl held in a scaly hand. The light shows us a mural. We start to move along the wall. First we see stars and planets, painted in a primitive, stylized fashion on bare rock. A voice on the track speaks softly to us. 
VOICE: We did not always live in hiding. 
We have come to the image of a huge family tree, which springs from a single seed but divides into two separate halves. On the left, ruled by the moon, the branches blossom into extraordinary creatures. On the right, by sunlight, the branches end in ordinary human beings. 
Upon the word Nightbreed the title comes up on the screen, against the image of a moon painted on the wall. 
SCENES 2-2K Deleted 
2L. EXT. REEDS NIGHT 
Cut to a real moon. Then cut wide to a moonlit landscape, through which the camera careens madly. The soundtrack, which was lush and almost sacred in the mural chamber, erupts into a tribal rhythm. We glimpse creatures in the darkness, moving through the reeds. They are barely more than silhouettes. We see teeth, and gleaming eyes; glimpses of naked, patterned flesh. Only glimpses. 
2M. INT. MURAL CHAMBER 
Cut back to the mural chamber. Now we have moved away from the tree to a more brutal scene. A symbolic representation of a great apocalyptic war between Naturals and Breed. Terrible scenes of destruction. 
VOICE: But the Naturals made war on us. They feared us for our strength. They envied our powers. They called us monsters, killing us by whatever means their malice could invent, finding in each of us our particular vulnerability. 
We are scanning scenes of that war. A breed being staked like a vampire. Another being shot like a werewolf. Another exposed to sunlight. 
VOICE: None of us was safe. The tribes of the moon dwindled. Our gods were slaughtered, our homes destroyed. It was the Apocalypse. 
2N. EXT. NECROPOLIS WALL AND GATES 
Cut back to the landscape. The clouds roil above the heads of the creatures heading through the reeds. We see their destination now. A huge wall, with gates. 
2P. INT. MURAL CHAMBER 
And back to the mural chamber, and a final scene. The gates we've just seen are in the painting. Looking over them, calling the Breed in, is a vast indistinct form: that of Baphomet. His eyes burn; his arms are open in welcome. 
VOICE: Only one of our Gods survived the holocaust. Baphomet. Wounded and near death, he summoned us, the last of the last, into hiding. Into Midian, where we wait now. The battle is over but not the war. There will come a saviour. 
Now we've moved beyond the image of the gate into a new patch of wall on which the pictures are only vague sketches. We can interpret some of the images nevertheless: a man with a bloody hole in the middle of his chest. A man wearing a mask like a skull. We linger on a faceless figure. 
VOICE: His name is Cabal. He will lead and give us back the Night. We are the tribes of the moon. We are the Nightbreed. 
The titles end. 
2Q. EXT. NECROPOLIS WALL AND GATES 
Cut back to the landscape. Now we are at the gates, and the creatures slip through and away into the mist. Only one, a beautiful, ferocious female called Shuna Sassi remains, turning to look at us. She beckons. 
SHUNA: Come... 
The camera retreats from her. 
SHUNA: Will you not come? 
Now the last of the creatures, the Drummer, takes her by the arm, snatching her away through the gates. As she disappears, the camera follows again, stopping at the gates themselves, which close with an unearthly din. 
CUT TO: 
2R. INT. LORI'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
C.U. on Boone, closed eyes. He is dreaming. His gaze roves beneath his lids. 
Lori's lips come into shot kissing first his eyes and then traveling down his face to his mouth. 
LORI: Boone...wake up. 
Boone's eyes flicker open. 
LORI: Hi. You OK? 
Boone: Yep. 
Now Boone's eyes are fully open. He sits up. Looks towards the open window. Night beyond. She kisses him, distracting him from the sight of the window. 
LORI: You want something to eat? 
BOONE: Sure. What time is it? 
LORI: Nine-thirty. I was letting you doze. 
BOONE: Thought you'd worn me out, huh? 
Lori smiles, and kisses him, then crosses the room to the kitchen area, picks up some fruit, and a knife, carrying both back to where Boone is lying on the bed. It is unmade. Both Lori and Boone are lightly dressed, clothes casually thrown on after an afternoon lovemaking. 
Lori: You know what? 
BOONE: What? 
LORI: We should get out of Calgary for a few days. Just take off. 
BOONE: Anywhere special? 
LORI: Somewhere we can be alone together. 
BOONE: More alone than this? 
MELISSA: Coming... 
Melissa disappears from the bottom of the stairs. 
18. INT. RICKMAN KITCHEN NIGHT 
Melissa enters, moves out of sight. We stay at the door. A figure appears dressed in black, knives in both hands, and crosses to leave the screen again. We do not see his face. But we hear his labours: the sound of the blades slicing Melissa. She staggers into view, grabbing hold of her slit throat. Blood bubbles between her fingers. The figure appears behind her. She turns, as the knife descends. 
19. INT. RICKMAN LOUNGE NIGHT 
Lou hears a sound, rises and moves towards the kitchen door. 
LOU: Melissa? 
At the top of the stairs, Lou Two watches wide-eyed. 
20. INT. RICKMAN STAIRS NIGHT 
Lou Two's P.O.V. - We see blood running along the highway. 
21. INT. RICKMAN KITCHEN NIGHT 
Lou reaches the kitchen door and sees Melissa laid out, dead, on the kitchen table 
LOU: Oh God - GOD! 
Lou enters, the figure emerges from behind him. While we remain at the door watching, detached, Lou fights back, throwing himself back and forth around the kitchen. But the figure is much stronger. We glimpse its face now, it is a mask, with a zipper for a mouth and buttons for eyes, blank. Devoid of compassion, hatred or regret. A death's head, made by a mad child. 
Atop the stairs, Lou Two listens. His baby sister cries in her cot. He looks her way then back downstairs. The sounds cease. Silence. Terror on his face. Then the child's perfect nightmare appears at the bottom of the stairs. The figure, heavy knife in hand, starts to climb, dragging Lou's bloody body after him by the hair. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
22. SCENE DELETED 
22A. INT. BOONE'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
Empty. The phone rings. We move towards the answering machine, which clicks on. 
BOONE [on tape]: Hi. Please leave a message. 
LORI [thru phone]: Boone, pick up will you? Boone? Are you there? Boone? Okay, so don't answer. See you tomorrow...G'night. 
23. SCENE DELETED 
24. EXT. RICKMAN HOUSE NIGHT 
Three patrol cars, an ambulance, policeman restraining a small crowd gathered outside. A n.d. sedan roars up, red bubble light flashing, and Inspector Joyce gets out and moves towards the house. He's greeted by the Medical Examiner, Dr Burton, just exiting, carrying a medical bag. 
BURTON [bitter]: Brace yourself, Inspector. 
JOYCE: Same profile? 
BURTON: Unmistakable. Doesn't miss a trick. 
JOYCE [anguished]: Kids? Two kids? 
BURTON: If it's any comfort, they went quickly. 
JOYCE: Yeah. Makes me feel a whole lot better about the sick fuck. 
BURTON: Find this guy, Joyce. They say these guys want to be caught. I think this one likes it too much. 
A rookie patrolman stands on the doorstep, on the verge of tears. 
JOYCE [gently]: Let's get these tourists back, Officer. 
POLICEMAN: Yes sir. 
JOYCE [to Burton]: If we can't protect the kids, what the hell use are we? 
25. SCENE DELETED 
26. EXT. SUNRISE 
The sun climbs above the horizon, behind the cityscape of Calgary. Another day begins. 
27. SCENE DELETED 
28. SCENE DELETED 
29. INT. DR DECKER'S OFFICE DAY 
Close on a pile of tapes, marked with dates over a period of two years. They're on Decker's desk. 
DECKER: I've been listening to the tapes of our sessions. All two years' worth... 
We move from the tapes to Decker, who gets up from his desk and moves around to the other side. Boone is sitting on the other side of the desk, his posture far from relaxed. He hates this room. As Decker moves, we take in the various pictures on the walls. Dance pictures, photographs of Decker with civic dignitaries, crippled children etc. 
BOONE: Why? 
DECKER: Most of my colleagues would have walked away from a case like yours. The most they would have done was drug you. But you...you intrigued me. All the talk of monsters. And Midian. Remember Midian? 
BOONE: That wasn't me. I heard about Midian from other people. 
DECKER: But you made it part of your private mythology. 
BOONE: I suppose I did. It was a place of refuge. 
DECKER: When you imagined yourself being taken off to this invented city, to Midian, what crimes were you going to be forgiven? 
Boone's looking uneasy now. He wipes sweat from his upper lip. 
Boone opens his drawers and pulls out photographs, his passport etc and starts to make a pile with them. He pours lighter fuel on the pictures, and watches them burn. Sitting against the wall still sweating he takes some more pills. 
We see Lori's love letters burn and hear her voice speaking the words as they are consumed. 
Boone cries. Then he hears Lori's voice say: 
LORI: Boone... 
Lori is sitting on the edge of the bed. Boone looks round, sees himself against the wall and moves forward past the real Boone towards the bed... 
Boone watches as he and Lori make love on the bed. We close in on the love-making. Lori leans to kiss him. 
BOONE: I'll never leave you... 
Cut back to boone, his face all grief. 
BOONE: Stupid. 
CUT TO: 
40B. INT. BOONE'S BATHROOM AFTERNOON 
Boone's hand pulls the shower curtain aside and turns on the water. The water pours on him. 
41. HALLUCINATION 
Another of the murder scenes comes to life. Corpses pulse with hideous animation. 
42. INT. BOONE'S BATHROOM AFTERNOON 
With a cry Boone slides to the shower floor, panting, haunted, destroyed. 
BOONE [faintly]: ...I did it...I did it all... 
43. INT. BOONE'S APARTMENT EVENING 
Behind him, the last of the fire flickers. He looks through the blinds at the sunset. Takes another pill. Puts on his leather jacket. Exits. The door slams. 
44. SCENE DELETED 
45. INT. NIGHTCLUB NIGHT 
Lori is on stage, sexy, vivacious, fronting a tight C & W band in a hip rendition of 'Johnny Be Angry'. 
46. INT. NIGHTCLUB NIGHT 
Lori's P.O.V. looking though the crowd in front of the stage. Lori spots Boone standing near the entrance, his face in shadow. 
Her eyes light up with joy as the song builds to climax. It ends. Applause, cat whistles, foot stomping. Lori's in heaven. She looks out again. 
Boone is gone. 
47. EXT. HIGHWAY NIGHT 
Boone steps into view by the side of the road, watches the traffic. 
INTERCUT: 
48. INT. NIGHTCLUB CORRIDOR NIGHT 
Confused and worried, Lori stands in the empty corridor, a note Boone has left for her in her hand. 
Boone edges out closer to the road. Spots a huge semi with a fully loaded trailer barrelling down towards him. 
Lori opens the note and reads: 'Keep this. Burn the rest. All wrong.' Tears burst from Lori's eyes. 
Boone flings himself in front of the oncoming truck. 
CUT TO BLACK: 
FADE IN: 
49. INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM NIGHT 
A blaze of light. A bustling emergency receiving area. A stern nurse goes through the pockets of Boone's jackets, which is lying beside him on a gurney. His eyes are closed, face and T-shirt bloody. She fishes out the vial of pills. 
Boone moans, opens his eyes. 
NURSE Lucky you're in one piece, fella. 
BOONE [realizing where he is]: ...can't even kill myself... 
NURSE: There's a cheerful thought. [to an approaching doctor] I don't know what kind of fuel he's using, but this guy's cruising at about 35,000 feet. 
The doctor takes the vial of pills, checks the label. Opens Boone's eyes, shines a penlight flash on the pupils. Boone recoils. Doctor takes his pulse. 
DOCTOR: You don't hit that altitude on lithium carbonate. Let's get the prescribing doctor on the line... [finally - to Boone] Okay, we're doing all right, aren't we? Tell me, what've you been taking tonight, partner? 
BOONE: Lithium... 
The doctor opens the vial, looks at a handful of the pills. 
DOCTOR: Lithium? This isn't lithium, my friend. [to the nurse] Let's move him. Observation, let's get an IV, valium/saline, 200 milligrams percodan for pain, as needed...[quietly - hands the pills to the nurse] We'll have to call this in. 
She nods. With considerable effort, Boone sits up urgently and grabs the doctor's hand, holding the pills. 
BOONE: What was I taking? 
DOCTOR [patronizing]: Easy. We don't know until we run some tests. Looks like some kind of lab quality psychotropic hallucinogen. You're on what we used to call a 'bad trip' there, buddy. You relax now, you're gonna be fine. 
The doctor and nurse ease Boone back down onto the gurney. The doctor moves away. The nurse pulls back the curtain and rolls Boone across the hall into a semi-private room 
54. EXT. SEMI-PRIVATE ROOM NIGHT 
Following the nurse and an intern as they burst into the room and are greeted with the sight of Narcisse, blood running freely, ripping the least of his scalp off his bare skull, laughing and crying maniacally. 
Boone stands near the door, horrified. 
NARCISSE [variously]: TAKE ME! TAKE ME! I'M A MONSTER! 
Nurse [over - to Boone] What the hell have you done? 
Boone: Nothing! 
INTERN: Fucking junkies! [at the door - yelling into the corridor] Doctor! 
As the door swings open, Boone looks out into the corridor and at the far end of the emergency room he sees Decker and the cops looking his way. Medical support move towards the room, as the nurse and intern try to contain the ranting Narcisse. 
Boone grabs a loose doctor's coat off the back of the door, slips it on and backs out of the room. 
BOONE: Let's get some help in here! 
Pandemonium. Narcisse screams, as a half-dozen people struggle to subdue him. As help continues to rush into the room, Boone slowly backs away, out and around a corner. He stops beside a swinging door, sensing something. 
55. EXT. SEMI-PRIVATE ROOM NIGHT 
Dr Decker moving through emergency towards the mêlée, stops on the other side of the swinging door, his senses lit up with alarm. He slowly turns to the door. Pushes it open. Empty. 
56. EXT. HOSPITAL NIGHT 
Boone moves rapidly away from the exit into the parking lot, tossing off the white coat, breaking into a run. He tries several car doors, finds one open, gets in. 
57. INT. CAR NIGHT 
With a rush of adrenal intensity, Boone expertly rips open an under panel of the dash, locates and patches together the correct ignition wires and hot-starts the car. Closes the door. Puts it in gear. 
58. EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT 
INT. CAR NIGHT 
Boone slowly drives out of the lot trying not to attract the attention of the fleet of patrol cars sirens wailing, pouring into the area. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
59. EXT. FREEWAY NIGHT 
Boone drives up an entrance ramp and onto the highway, past a sign that reads: 
'HIGHWAY 2/NORTH' 
DISSOLVE TO: 
60. INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY WARD NIGHT 
Dr Decker, a few policeman and medical personnel wait outside the door leading to the semi-private room. Lieutenant Joyce exits and a surgeon follows a moment later. 
DECKER: What's he saying? 
JOYCE: He's talking but he's not making any sense. Something about a place called Midian. 
SURGEON: He's dying. I think he wants to die. 
Pause. The surgeon moves on. 
DECKER [unobtrusively - to Joyce]: Lieutenant, I know Boone, I know how he talks, how he manipulates. Perhaps if the right thing is said to this man it'll trigger something... 
JOYCE [consider]: No harm in trying. 
DECKER: I'll do my best. But I'll need privacy. 
Decker enters the room. 
61. EXT. SEMI-PRIVATE ROOM NIGHT 
Looking in through the room, we see Decker cross the room to the bed where Narcisse is lying. Decker says something to the nurse. She exits. Decker moves closer to the bed. He reaches into his pocket for something and moves out of our sight. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
62. EXT. HIGHWAY/INT. CAB NIGHT/DAY 
Montage - Boone drives through the night, and the following day, through a landscape which becomes increasingly more desolate. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
63. EXT. ROAD SIGN LATE AFTERNOON 
The road sign reads: 
'DWYER - 56 MILES' 
Boone's car speeds past. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
64. EXT. DIRT ROAD OUTSIDE MIDIAN DAY 
Boone's car rolls to a stop. Boone steps out and looks at something in the dust. A battered sign. It reads: 
'MIDIAN/POPULATION 63' 
There is no sign of life. 
BOONE: No....oh no...[in despair] No! 
LYLESBURG: The blood of the God tells all truths. It can harm as easily as heal. Are you prepared to be judged? 
BOONE: I'm ready. 
Lylesburg nods, and puts his hand into the bowl of the blood. The blood bubbles around his wrist. 
We cut to Peloquin and Shuna Sassi, who are watching Boone intently. 
Boone's eyes are now on Lylesburg's smoking hand as it approaches Boone's chest, still marked by his wounds. 
LYLESBURG: Be judged. 
He puts his hand on the bullet wounds. Boone stiffens. But there's no pain. When Lylesburg's hand is removed, the wounds have gone. There's a visible release of tension on the faces of all those watching. 
LYLESBURG: Aaron Boone, in the name of Baphomet, Lord of the tribes of the moon, I bid you welcome... 
The camera moves out of the chamber, and towards the mural. 
97. INT. MOTEL BEDROOM NIGHT 
Lori lies awake in bed, staring at the ceiling. Outside, and next door, the noise of laughter and partying. 
LORI [quietly, a tear in her eye]: I still love you, Boone... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
98. INT. MOTEL BAR DAY 
Sheryl is sitting at the empty bar, obviously hung over. She is wearing dark glasses and a horned Buffalo Days hat. The bartender pours her an eye-opener. 
BARTENDER: Hair of the dog. 
Lori enters. 
SHERYL: Hi. 
LORI: How's your head? 
SHERYL: My momma always used to say, 'Sheryl Ann, there's a man out walking around with your name on his mind, all you got to do is run into him.' 
LORI: And he just happened to be checked in here at the crossroads of the world. 
SHERYL: Isn't that something? His name is Curtis, he is a banker, recently divorced and recently relocated in Edmonton, up for the rodeo and better yet, he thinks I am the Queen-bee's knees. 
LORI: Sheryl, you sure you want to come along? 
SHERYL: Wouldn't miss it. Besides, Curtis has to do business today, we've got an engagement for this evening and if I sit around all day with this head on I'm gonna feel like the hind end of a dog sled. 
LORI: I'm glad for your company. 
SHERYL: Now if we could just make a quick stop for some Alka-Seltzer. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
99. SCENE DELETED 
100. EXT. MIDIAN/INT. LORI'S CAR DAY 
Lori's car comes to a stop near the edge of the reeds outside the Necropolis. 
SHERYL: Jesus. Looks like the gold rush is over. 
Lori parks the car. She gets out, looks around. 
LORI [quiet - reflective]: Why? Why would Boone come here? 
SHERYL: To get away from it all? [Lori gives her a look] Shut up, Sheryl Ann. You go do what you have to do. I'll stay here and...do somethin' else. 
Lori nods and heads away down the street, leaving Sheryl beside the car. She leans against the car, surveys the emptiness, without enthusiasm. 
SHERYL [cont.]: My luck, I'll end up buying some real estate. 
101. EXT. MIDIAN DAY 
Lori - as she leaves the reeds and sees the outer walls of the Necropolis. 
LORI: Good God... 
102. EXT. MIDIAN DAY 
Sheryl - wandering from the car into the reeds. She lights a cigarette, tunelessly humming to ward off the willies. She stops, shivers, suddenly feeling very isolated. The atmosphere's got to her. She starts back to the car. 
She catches some movement out of the corner of her eye. Stops. Slowly walks away from the movement, fighting off panic. She turns a corner, and realizes she's lost in the reeds. 
She hears movement behind her, turns, startled, then, oddly, she smiles. 
SHERYL: Curtis ... what are you doing here? 
It's Decker, looking like a commuter, hair slicked back, wearing an overcoat, carrying his briefcase. 
DECKER [big smile]: Hello, Sheryl Ann. 
103. EXT. NECROPOLIS GATES DAY 
Lori reaches the gates, slightly breathless. She pushes one of them open. The sun is hot and bright, transforming the Necropolis from the dark, dangerous place it was when Boone was here. Now, with its gothic tombs and burgeoning plant life, it's almost welcoming. 
104. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
Lori wanders the walkways, enchanted by the splendor of the place. There are strange, bittersweet sights along the way: statues of dogs sleeping on their masters' graves; of mourning mothers; of children, sitting at their graves. And grotesque images too: gargoyles protecting the doorways of mausoleums; a tiger, roaring in stone. It is another world, solemn and silent. 
Except...suddenly, the sound of an animal in pain. Lori stops and looks around. Her gaze comes to rest on a spreading laurel tree beneath which the shadows are pitch black. From here, the sobbing comes. She approaches. There is an animal beneath the tree, barely discernible. She can see its flanks panting, its head moving in pain. 
His words take the edge off Lori's anger. She notices that inscribed in the marble arch above the doorway are the words: 
'WHAT'S BELOW REMAINS BELOW' 
LYLESBURG [cont.]: What's below remains below. This is the Law. 
Rachel is carrying Babette down the steps. Lylesburg turns to follow her. 
LORI: Wait! Wait a minute! Boone, Aaron Boone, just tell me, is he here? You took him, you took his body, didn't you? Hey! 
Lori crosses to the stairs. Lylesburg's disappeared down into the darkness. 
LORI [cont.]: Talk to me, damn it, I have to know - come back! 
105A. INT. MAUSOLEUM STAIRWELL 
Lori heads down the stairs. 
LORI: Come back! 
Lylesburg, Ohnaka, Rachel and Babette have gone, however. Lori continues her descent. There are sounds in the darkness below her. She stops, and looks back towards the top of the stairs. It's a long way off. 
LORI [to herself]: How deep does this go? 
She heads on down, turning a corner. In front of her, Peloquin. He starts towards her. She backs away, into a second creature, and starts up the stairs. As she does so a third creature swings down from the darkness above her head. She shrieks, and runs like hell. 
PELOQUIN [calls after her]: Come back soon, y'hear? 
106. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
Lori emerges, squinting against the blinding sun, trying to calm herself. 
LORI: Okay. Walk away, Lori. Don't panic. There's got to be a perfectly reasonable explanation, [can't sustain it] And hell if I know what it is. 
She sprints back towards the gate. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
107. EXT. MIDIAN DAY 
Out of breath, Lori reaches the car, parked where she left it. No sign of Sheryl. 
LORI: Sheryl! Sheryl! Let's get the hell out of here! [no reply] Sheryl? 
Lori looks around. Sees Sheryl's purse in the dirt near the reeds. 
LORI [cont.]: Sheryl? 
She moves towards the reeds. Picks up the purse. Peers inside the house. She hears a gurgling laugh from inside. It could be Sheryl. 
LORI [cont.]: Sheryl, come on ... 
108. EXT. REEDS DAY 
The undergrowth is dark and empty. Lori advances cautiously through the paths. 
LORI: Sheryl, we have to go, uh, something's kind of come up and... 
She sees a splash of blood on the reeds. 
LORI [cont.]: Oh shit. . . 
Something moves across our field of vision in the gloom behind her. She turns. 
LORI [cont.]: Sheryl? 
She turns back and follows the trail of blood around the corner, Lying on the floor is Sheryl. Mouth cut away. Tongue cut off. 
LORI [cont.]: Jesus! God! 
She turns to run, but Decker steps into her path. He wears a mask of repulsive simplicity: a linen face with two buttons for eyes and a zipper [open at present] for a mouth. In his hands are two large carving knives, both blood-stained. 
DECKER: Let's get it over with, shall we? 
LORI [mind racing, a survivor]: Take it easy, let's talk about this. 
DECKER [advancing]: Don't try and reason with me, Lori. I'm a lunatic. You don't reason with lunatics. 
LORI: How do you know my name? 
DECKER: Good question. No reason why you shouldn't have an answer. [he pulls off the mask] Wish I had a camera. Oh, the look a your face. 
LORI: Why? Why did you kill her? 
DECKER: Why did I kill all the others? For the fun of it, of course. For pleasure. Everyone ought to have a hobby, don't you agree? 
LORI: Boone was innocent. 
DECKER: Is innocent, wherever he's hiding. After all the trouble I went to to find him a home for his guilt. 
LORI: You sick motherfucker... 
DECKER: Boone's alive, Lori. And your death is going to bring him out of hiding. 
He comes at her suddenly, but his heel slides in Sheryl's blood. He falls in front of Lori, and stabs at her feet. She avoids the stab by an inch. He rises suddenly, throws one of his knives aside and grabs the blade Lori holds, with a glove which strikes sparks. It is chainmail. Lori lets go, propelling herself through the reeds. 
109. SCENE DELETED 
110. INT. NECROPOLIS LATE AFTERNOON 
The light is diminishing behind the Necropolis walls. Lori's screams are distant. We track towards the gate as she runs down the hill. 
NARCISSE [V.O.]: Man? You call yourself a man? 
Boone looks round; Narcisse is squatting on a tomb, his face a mass of scar tissue. 
NARCISSE [cont.]: You're no more man than I am. 
BOONE: Monster, then. 
NARCISSE: That's more like it. [he jumps off the tomb, moves towards them] Well, go on, are you going to kill him or not? Only I want his balls. And his eyes. That is, if you don't want them. 
BOONE: I'll pass. 
NARCISSE: Remember me, Doctor? I was dying when you had your way with me. You made me tell my secrets when I was feeling particularly vulnerable. Now was that a nice thing for a doctor to do? 
DECKER [to Boone, craven]: Oh God, Boone, don't let him touch me, anything, keep him off me, full confession...sweet Jesus, mercy, mercy, please, I'm begging you! 
Narcisse raises his thumbs, still bearing their silver hooks. 
NARCISSE: Let's start with his eyes ... 
BOONE: No! 
Boone pushes Narcisse back, but as he does so Decker slips his grasp. Boone roars and starts to twitch and stamp as Peloquin did and we watch as... 
Boone transforms into something part man, part carnivore...and gives chase. 
Decker nears the gate, but Boone is after him at great speed, leaping over tombs like a high-jumper. 
115. EXT. NECROPOLIS LATE AFTERNOON 
Left behind, Narcisse turns his eyes upon the recumbent Lori. 
NARCISSE [filled with hunger, greatly consoled): Well...you'll do. 
As he advances on her, Lori's eyes flicker open. She screams. 
116. EXT. NECROPOLIS LATE AFTERNOON 
Boone right on Decker's tail; he hears Lori's screams and stops. Decker runs out through the gate. Boone starts back towards Lori. 
INTERCUT: 
117. EXT. NECROPOLIS LATE AFTERNOON 
Lori struggling in Narcisse's arms. He tries to muffle her. 
Boone leaps tombs, nearing their location. He bounds into the clearing, sees Lori unconscious in Narcisse's embrace. 
BOONE: Let her go! 
Narcisse, all sheepish co-operation, gently lets her go onto the ground. 
NARCISSE: Just...keeping her warm. 
Boone is almost human now. He reaches Lori. 
NARCISSE [cont.]: I wouldn't have touched her. 
Boone breathes in the last of his monstrous condition, and bends to tenderly stroke Lori's face. Then, very lightly, he kisses her, and gathers her in his arms. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
118. SCENE DELETED 
118A. INT. LYLESBURG'S CHAMBER 
BOONE: I had no choice. 
LYLESBURG: You've put us all in danger for your love of this woman. 
BOONE: Decker can't tell anyone. What's he going to say? That he tried to kill a girl and a dead man stopped him? 
LYLESBURG: He can still lead our enemies here. If he goes - if Midian's unearthed — you're responsible. 
BOONE: So let me make amends. 
LYLESBURG: Just take the girl and go on your way amongst the Naturals. That's the Law. 
BOONE: Who made this Law? 
LYLESBURG: Baphomet. The God in Obsidian. Who made Midian. 
BOONE: So maybe I should speak to this guy. 
LYLESBURG: Baphomet is a spirit in stone. He doesn't speak, or move. His wounds are too great... 
BOONE: What are you afraid of? 
LYLESBURG: What Baphomet made he has the power to unmake. His blood is volatile. He mustn't be angered. 
BOONE: Then I'll make nice. 
119. SCENE DELETED 
120. INT. CORRIDOR BY LYLESBURG'S CHAMBER NIGHT 
Boone heads down the corridor. He slows as he passes an entrance to one side chamber and looks in... 
Inside the chamber, a dog-faced man is working on a vast elaborate mosaic mural that extends into shadow in both directions. He looks up and locks eyes with Boone. 
The Victim is thrown onto the bonfire. A tinder flares, and the inquisitors and audience light cigarettes and cigars from the tinder. 
The bonfire then flares up. 
An inquisitor lasciviously strokes the naked buttocks of a beautiful girl. She turns towards us in despair; we see her head is bestial. 
124. INT. RACHEL'S CHAMBER 
Overwhelmed with horror, Lori opens her eyes, breaking her connection with Babette. 
RACHEL: We are all that remain. 
LORI: And...and you're saying...Boone's like you? 
RACHEL: He is Nightbreed. Or he was, until he broke the Law. 
LORI [moving towards the door]: No, no, that's not possible - I've got to find him, there's been some kind of mistake... 
BABETTE: Don't go... 
LORI: But he didn't kill anybody, it wasn't him, he's innocent... 
RACHEL: That no longer matters... 
LORI: Where is he? Where'd he go? 
RACHEL: Down to the Tabernacle, to Baphomet. 
LORI: Who? 
RACHEL: The Baptiser. Who made Midian. Who called us here and saved us from our enemies... 
LORI: Take me there, I've got to find Boone... 
RACHEL: It's forbidden. 
LORI: We'll see about that. 
125. INT. EIGERMAN'S OFFICE 
Decker is drinking coffee. A cop strides by. Joyce enters. 
JOYCE: Decker? This better be good. 
DECKER: I found Boone. 
JOYCE: Someone brought the corpse down here? 
DECKER: He's not dead. 
JOYCE: I saw him pumped full of bullets. 
DECKER: So did I. But he's alive. He killed again... 
JOYCE: In Shere Neck? 
DECKER: No, out at Midian. 
JOYCE: Why'd he go back there? 
Eigerman enters. 
EIGERMAN: What are you doing in my office? 
KANE: This is Inspector Joyce. Calgary Police Department. 
EIGERMAN: We don't need any city boys on the case. Midian's under my jurisdiction. 
JOYCE: We can work together. 
EIGERMAN: No we don't. I'll bring him in myself. This is my town. 
DECKER: He's not alone anymore. 
JOYCE: What? 
EIGERMAN: Yeah. I heard that talk. That's nuthouse talk. 
JOYCE: Talk about what? 
DECKER: Midian's not empty. There's something breeding there. Below the cemetery. 
EIGERMAN: Bullshit. 
JOYCE [to Decker]: Do you believe that? 
DECKER: Yes I do. And if you don't stop them there's going to be more bloodshed. I promise. 
126. SCENE DELETED 
127. INT. MIDIAN CENTRAL CORE 
Lori finds herself in a cavernous space, lined with chambers connected by walkways and ladders, which don't look particularly secure. She moves out on to a walkway. It leads her into the central core of Midian, which offers a view of dizzying descent into the earth. She scans the scene, amazed by the sheer scale of the place. 
LORI: My God... 
As she descends into the bowels of Midian, creatures in various doorways watch her with curiosity. One creature seems to have light running from wounds on its body. Another tumbles past her, a slow acrobat, defying gravity. She sees only a few of these but hears far more, chattering and murmuring in the shadows. 
127A. INT. MIDIAN CORE 
As Lori moves through the chambers toward Peloquin we see the devil creature Lude feeding snakes to his pet, a horned, many legged beast which squats on the floor. He gets up and goes to look at her. Leroy, a grinning grotesque, appears from the back of the chamber, snatches the snake from the maw of the pet, and comes to watch as well. 
NARCISSE [sniffs his armpits]: Not me. They keep the Berserkers down there. Mad bastards. They'll rip your head off and shit down your neck. 
LORI: Boone went this way, right? 
NARCISSE: And won't be coming back. 
LORI: I'll bring him. 
NARCISSE: You think love can raise the dead? 
LORI: He's not dead. 
NARCISSE: He's that and more. If you don't believe me, you wait 'til he gets to sniff a little blood. That'll bring out the beast in him. I'm telling you, don't go... 
LORI: I have to. Nothing makes any sense without him. 
NARCISSE: Sense? Who needs it? 
Lori moves off down the corridor. Ohnaka follows her. 
NARCISSE [to Ohnaka]: Love those tattoos. 
130. SCENE DELETED 
131. SCENE DELETED 
132. INT. BERSERKERS' CORRIDOR 
Lori starts down the corridor, the walls of which are cracked wide in places, the gaps covered with chains. From the other side she hears grunts and growls. Then, to her shock, one of the Berserkers' arms reaches up from a grille in the floor and snatches at her leg. She steps aside to avoid it, and another of the Berserkers' arms reaches through the mesh of chains, taking hold of her by the neck. It starts to choke her. She shouts for help. 
Ohnaka, Lylesburg's fool, appears from down the corridor. He starts to rattle the chains further along the wall. 
OHNAKA: Hey, Ghost! Hey, Slaughter! Come and get me! Come and get me! 
The arm around Lori's neck releases its hold, and we hear the sound of the creatures moving along the walls in Ohnaka's direction. 
OHNAKA: Fat-asses! 
Suddenly, arms reach for him through the chains. He steps away just in time. 
OHNAKA: Missed! 
He grins at Lori, proud of himself. 
LORI: Where's Boone? 
OHNAKA: This way! 
He starts to lead her towards Baphomet's chamber. 
133. INT. OUTSIDE BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
Ohnaka and Lori reach the next to last chamber; a roaring from below, down a slope in front of them, walls vibrating with the din from Baphomet's chamber. Ohnaka withdraws. Blindingly bright light, out of which Lori spots a figure climbing towards them. 
LORI: Boone? Boone! 
She moves down to Boone, scrambling up the slope towards her, drenched in sweat, half-mad with terror. 
BOONE: Don't...don't look... 
He reaches for her, then collapses. She starts down the slope to him. Dust falls from the roof, the din makes her reel. But she reaches him, starts to haul him to his feet. Then, she looks up and we get a glimpse of... 
134. INT. BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
Out of the blinding light, and seemingly the source of it, a huge, black figure turns towards her, twelve feet high, severed limbs connected by sinews of hot, white energy and extruded spines, the face terrible, wise and beautiful. 
Lori's stunned, she averts her eyes. Boone collects himself enough to pull her away and they help each other frantically scrabble up the slope, out of the chamber. 
135. INT. OUTSIDE BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
As Lori and Boone emerge, Ohnaka appears and beckons them to follow. Too exhausted and frightened to speak, Boone and Lori follow. 
136. INT. MIDIAN CENTRAL CORE 
Ominous rumblings urge them on, as Boone and Lori make a stumbling ascent through the core, trailing Ohnaka's urgent lead, watched from the doorways by a variety of creatures. We cut to the ledge, and move to a chamber, where Peloquin and Shuna Sassi are making love. Peloquin hears Lori urging Boone on as they struggle across the bridge, and looks away from Shuna, out through the door. 
PELOQUIN: Well, well... 
He goes to the door. 
PELOQUIN [cont.]: Guess he couldn't take the heat. 
SHUNA SASSI: I dreamt him. He's strong. 
PELOQUIN: That's only because the bite was mine. 
SHUNA SASSI: No, don't you see? He's the one from the prophesies. Cabal. The seventh saviour. 
PELOQUIN: So why's he leaving? 
SHUNA SASSI: Everything has its purpose. Maybe he hasn't learned to hate his tribe enough. He'll be back. 
Peloquin kisses her. 
PELOQUIN: Why die waiting? 
137. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
The sun climbs over the horizon, sunlight penetrates the graveyard. A mausoleum door creaks open, Lori and Boone rush out into the open air. Lori tries to lead Boone away, he squints painfully against the early light. 
BOONE: No, no, I belong here... 
Lori moves to the door of the murder room. Boone is inside, his back to her. 
LORI: It was Decker...Decker did this... 
In foreground, Boone's face begins to transform, which Lori can't see. She hears the cops outside. 
LORI [cont.]: Boone, we have to get out of here. 
BOONE: Stay away from me... 
LORI: Boone, what is it? 
BOONE: I don't want you to see... 
LORI: See what? 
BOONE: Get out! Do as I say! 
LORI: I won't leave you... 
As she crosses towards him, he turns. His face is in mid- transformation. 
148. EXT. SWEETGRASS INN DAY 
Lori's scream echoes outside the motel. Joyce orders in the Swat Team. They charge, entering the motel. 
149. INT. MOTEL CORRIDOR DAY 
Lori backs out of the room in horror. 
LORI: Oh my God...oh my God... 
She hears cops charging up the stairs. 
LORI [cont.]: Boone! They're coming! 
INTERCUT: 
150. MOTEL MURDER ROOM DAY 
The transformed Boone covers his face, slams the room door shut and moves towards the bodies. 
Lori hides at the end of the corridor as the Swat cops appear at the far end. 
On his knees, in the middle of some frenzied action we can't quite see, Boone stops and looks down at his blood-stained hands. 
BOONE: No...No... 
Out of sight, Lori watches the cops prepare to storm the room. 
150A. INT. MOTEL BATHROOM DAY 
Boone enters the bathroom with the sound of the Swat Team's entry to the motel on the track. He slams the door. There is blood on his face and hands. He goes to the sink and turns on the tap. Then he sees himself in the mirror, his transformed face is a shock, He looks at himself, appalled. Then a wave of nausea overtakes him. He throws up into the sink; a splash of blood and flesh he's just eaten. Wiping his mouth with the back of his hands he starts to breathe out his condition. His face transforms back to his normal state. He makes a sob of horror. 
SWAT LEADER (V.O.): In here! 
Boone looks towards the door, sinking down against the tiles as he does so. The door is flung open. We see him cowering as the Swat Team come for him. 
151. SCENE DELETED 
152. EXT. SWEETGRASS INN DAY 
Under cover of the trees and cars around the motel, Lori hides in a place where she can view the front of the building. 
She sees Eigerman talking with Joyce, Decker behind them. They look up as the Swat cops manhandle a hand-cuffed Boone out of the building. He has totally reverted to human form, the blood-stains seemingly a sure proof of guilt. Lori watches as he's thrown into a police car and driven off. 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
153. INT. SHERE NECK POLICE STATION DAY 
A clank of keys opening locks. A steel door swings open. Three cops rough-house Boone down the corridor, Eigerman right behind, passing other cells holding prisoners watching them go by. We hold on one, a young fundamentalist Baptist preacher, Reverend Ashberry. He has haunted, maniacally repressed eyes and the ragged look of a habitual drunk. 
154. INT. POLICE STATION CELL DAY 
Boone is thrown into the cell. Eigerman and the three cops, Labowitz, Sergeant Pettine and Gibbs, all practised hard guys, enter the cell after him. 
EIGERMAN: Fuckin' freak! Fuckin' cannibal! [to his men] Stand him up! 
They haul Boone to his feet. Eigerman hits Boone with a wicked blackjack. 
EIGERMAN [cont.]: You picked the wrong town, boy. We believe in real justice here, [a blow is delivered] They're gonna take you back to the city...[another blow]...but we're gonna leave you with something...[another blow]...to remember...[another]...us...by! 
Boone sags to the ground, unconscious. 
154A. INT. ASHBERRY'S CELL DAY 
As the sound of Boone being beaten up filters through the wall, Ashberry sits in his cell, Bible in hand. He flicks the pages over, attempting to distance himself from the violence he hears with study. He halts at a page with an illustration. It is something from Revelations: monsters and demons doing battle with angels. He puts the book down, and turns over his palm. It is a mass of tiny scars. He closes his hand into a white-knuckled fist, retreating into the shadows in the corner of his cell. 
We cutback to his hand. Blood seeps between the fingers, as his nails dig into the meat of his palm. 
155. INT. EIGERMAN'S OFFICE DAY 
Eigerman enters. Decker is standing looking at Eigerman's collection of photographs. 
EIGERMAN: You still here? 
DECKER: I'm going back to Midian with you. 
EIGERMAN: I'm not going anywhere. We got press folks and photographers coming in from all over. Wouldn't be polite to keep 'em waiting. 
FADE IN: 
161. EXT. SHERE NECK STREET DAY 
Lori emerges from a supermarket with food to eat. She walks into a small square, finds a seat and sits down to eat. As she reaches into the bag: 
BABETTE[V.O.]:Lori? 
She looks round. The voice sounded real. No sign of Babette. 
BABETTE [V.O. - cont.]: Lori...close your eyes. 
LORI [frightened]: Where are you? 
BABETTE [V.O.]: Please, do as I say. 
Lori closes her eyes. 
162. INT. SKULL CHAMBER CENTRE CORE 
Lori and Babette's P.O.V. - darkness. 
BABETTE [V.O.]: Be with me...be with me... 
Dim light. We're in the Midian skull chamber, seeing it through Babette's eyes. Their voices merge into one. 
LORI/BABETTE [V.O.]: ...where am I? What's happening to me? 
Rachel steps into view, and looks directly down at the camera. 
RACHEL: What is it, child? 
163. EXT. SHERE NECK STREET DAY 
Lori's eyes spring open. She's terrified. 
BABETTE [V.O.]: Lori! Comeback! 
Lori closes her eyes again and we click back into... 
164. EXT. SHERE NECK STREET DAY 
Lori and Babette's P.O.V. - we see Babette's view of Rachel. 
LORI/BABETTE [V.O.]: Is this real? 
RACHEL [whispers]: What are you talking about? Babette? [grips Babette] What have you done? 
LORI/BABETTE [V.O.]: I've brought her, to see. She's in me. Babette breaks away, Rachel tries to catch hold, Babette runs. P.O.V. camera veers around and down through the maze of Midian. 
165. EXT. SHERE NECK STREET DAY 
Eyes closed on the bench, Lori gasps as the journey snatches her up. 
166. INT. CENTRAL CORE 
Lori and Babette's P.O.V. - Babette races over a rope-bridge. We see it all through her eyes, her hands coming occasionally into view. We head down a narrow tunnel and into a small chamber, which is Babette's hidehole. We scan the treasures she keeps there: a doll made of grasses; birds' skulls; pretty stones. We hear voices from above and we look up at a steel grille, facing out on the surface. 
166A. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
Pushing closer to the grille we see...Joyce, Pettine, Tommy and Gibbs, wandering through the Necropolis, armed to the hilt. Only Joyce carries no weapon. 
PETTINE: Christ, you could hide a fuckin' army in here. 
TOMMY: What egg-zactly are we lookin' for, Sarge? 
TOMMY [spits some tobacco juice on a tomb]: We're here to kick some major-league butt. 
JOYCE [distrusts these throwbacks]: We're here to scout, not engage 
TOMMY: Well what if they engage us? What about that? 
PETTINE: There's people down there, I can feel it. 
Lori/Babette gasps, Pettine hears the sound and walks over to the grille. 
TOMMY: Why don't we just shoot 'em in their graves? Save us diggin' new ones, [giggles - fires at one of the tombs] 
JOYCE [angry]: Hold your fire! 
PETTINE: We want prisoners, Tommy. 
Pettine goes down on his haunches beside the grille, runs the muzzle of his gun along it. P.O.V. camera withdraws into the shadows. He shakes his head and... 
167. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
We cut out of the P.O.V. as Pettine stands. 
PETTINE: There's something down there all right. 
JOYCE: If that's the case we'll call for back-up... 
Pettine spots a movement in the shadows of a half-open mausoleum door. He catches Gibbs' eye, nods in the direction of the door, Gibbs gets the idea and starts to back towards the tomb. 
PETTINE [a performance]: I don't know. Maybe we're just spooked. Hell, who'd live in a graveyard, anyway? [crossing towards Gibbs] What do you say, Lieutenant? Maybe we oughta just pack it in...head for home... 
He and Gibbs rush the door of the tomb; there's a cry of surprise from inside. 
168. EXT. NECROPOLIS DAY 
Lori and Babette's P.O.V. - Camera glides back up to the grille in time to see Gibbs and Pettine drag Ohnaka out of darkness and into the sunlight where he lacks the strength to resist. 
Wearing a hat and dark glasses, laughing, Narcisse drives this old clunker like a maniac, takes a large cigar out of his mouth. 
He strikes a match off a thumb hook and lights up. In the back, protected from sunlight by shades on the windows, is Rachel. 
178. INT. POLICE STATION TOILET DAY 
The door opens, a panicked Labowitz enters. 
LABOWITZ: Chief, come quick... 
EIGERMAN [from inside a stall]: This better be good... 
LABOWITZ: Pettine's on the radio, they're under attack. 
EIGERMAN: Hot damn, we got contact! 
He bursts out of the stall, hitching his trousers. 
179. INT. EIGERMAN'S OFFICE DAY 
Eigerman enters, takes the two-way receiver. Behind him, Decker, Labowitz and Kane enter the office. 
EIGERMAN: Pettine, what's your situation. 
INTERCUT: 
180. EXT. NECROPOLIS 
INT. EIGERMAN'S OFFICE DAY 
Pettine on the radio, as the others try to keep back the flames. 
PETTINE [into radio]: The place is crawling with 'em...they torched our cars...fuckin' freaks!... 
The transmission breaks up. Eigerman turns to the others in the room. 
EIGERMAN [joyfully]: ...Sound the call, boys, let the bells of freedom ring, we got to mobilize. 
Decker affectionately runs his hand over his briefcase. 
181. EXT. SHERENECK STREET DAY 
Lori moves down the street, blinking through tears. 
BABETTE [V.O.]: I'm afraid ... 
LORI: I have to go, Babette, I have to get help. I'll be back, I promise. You hide somewhere. 
The connection fades. Lori wipes the tears from her cheeks. 
182. INT. POLICE STATION DAY 
The crowd and journalists still hanging around; Eigerman throws the door open. 
EIGERMAN: Listen up! We got officers under attack, I need volunteers for a posse! Y'all sign up with Officer Labowitz here! 
He moves back towards the office, as Labowitz, clipboard in hand, is besieged with offers. 
183. INT. EIGERMAN'S OFFICE DAY 
Decker is sitting with his briefcase open on his lap, gazing 
AFFECTIONATELY at the button head mask inside. He snaps the case shut as Eigerman re-enters, followed by the silent Kane. Eigerman digs a key out of his desk. 
EIGERMAN: If you're gonna make an omelette you have to break eggs, isn't that right, Professor? 
DECKER [doesn't follow]: Sorry? 
EIGERMAN: Christmas comes early this year. 
184. INT. POLICE STATION STORAGE ROOM DAY 
Eigerman leads Decker, Kane and another cop down into the bowels of the station. He unlocks a door and switches on a light. Warehoused inside is a virtual arsenal in a number of packing crates stencilled with a martial insignia and the name: 
SONS OF THE FREE: SHERE NECK BRIGADE' 
The crates are also stamped with their countries of origin: South Africa and the Soviet Union. 
EIGERMAN: Ounce a' prevention is worth a pound a' cure. Save for a rainy day, one day that day will come. Don't matter if it's Commies, homos, freaks or Japs, we are ready. World class ordnance, Doc: the best private sector money can buy. 
Kane, with a clipboard, goes over supplies with the other cop. 
KANE [over above — in his element): Okay. We got your spankin' new G3 thirty-odd-six Springfield semi-auto with roller-lock action and retractable stock. For standard carbine firepower, you can't beat this match-accurate Galil AR 7.62 NATO assault rifle and for the sportsman in the crowd we carry this handy, double-pump, Mossberg Persuader, sling swivels double extractors, which also comes in a light-weight single-barrel size for ladies and juniors - 
DECKER: Marvelous, really, but - 
KANE: Now over here we're talkin' Damascus, high-carbon Spetnatz shootin' knives, and for that tough up-close-and- personal work, you can always count on your razor-wire/fishing-line garotte when nuthin' else will do — 
DECKER [over Kane]: Captain, have you considered the possibility that knives and bullets won't be adequate to the task? 
EIGERMAN: Show him, Kane. 
KANE [pulling off a shroud to unveil]: That's why we bought these cherry Israeli Army high-octane linear-field flame throwers. 
EIGERMAN: Now I know what you're thinkin', Doc; maybe there's some sort'a spiritual angle to all this. Well, we got that covered, too. 
185. INT. POLICE STATION CELLS NIGHT 
A cell door swings open. Decker and Eigerman look in on the Baptist preacher, Reverend Ashberry. 
EIGERMAN: Reverend Ashberry, your services are required. 
191. INT. POLICE STATION CELL CORRIDOR DAY 
The station is eerily quiet. Labowitz and an Irish cop, Connie Cormack, guard the cells. Two other cops patrol the end of the corridor. All heavily armed. Labowitz moves to the door of Boone's cell. 
192. INT. BOONE'S CELL DAY 
The spy-hole cover is open. Boone looks up. 
LABOWITZ [from other side of door]: Hey, freak-face, we found your pals. They're gonna fry, just like you. Give us a smile now. 
Boone stares at the floor, depressed, defeated. 
193. INT. CELL CORRIDOR/OFFICE DAY 
Labowitz chuckles and closes the spy-hole. He walks back down to the coffee station near Eigerman's office, where Cormack is pouring two cups. He takes out a flask, spikes his mug and offers some to Labowitz. 
CORMACK: Little Irish in your joe, Constable Labowitz? 
LABOWITZ [a bad brogue]: Don't mind if I do, Constable Cormack. 
There is a knock on the station door. They look at each other. Cormack picks up his gun and crosses to the door. 
CORMACK: Who's there? 
RACHEL [O.S.]: Help me, please. 
CORMACK: What's wrong? 
RACHEL [O.S.]: Accident. We need help. 
Cormack decides to unbolt the door. On the step stands Rachel, shrouded in black veils. Only her eyes are visible. They fix Cormack. 
CORMACK: What's the problem, lady? 
She drops the veil. The other half of her face has disappeared into smoke. 
CORMACK [cont.]: What the blazes? 
Her costume falls to the ground. Her eyes dissolve. As smoke, Rachel blows into the station. Cormack fires through the smoke, yelling as he does so. 
LABOWITZ [running towards the cell]: Hold 'em, Connie! 
194. INT. CELL CORRIDOR DAY 
The two other cops hear the shot and run towards the station. Labowitz runs back in with them before they get there, slams and bolts the door. 
LABOWITZ [to the other cops]: Hold your ground! [yells through the door] Cormack? You all right? 
195. INT. POLICE STATION DAY 
Cormack turns back towards the door, sees Narcisse, screams and fires twice. Narcisse flips one of the bullets out of his chest with a thumb-nail, then leaps onto Cormack, who manages to shoot himself in the foot. Lori enters, slams the door and locks it. Narcisse squats over Cormack, holds his razor-nails under his chin. 
NARCISSE: Where is he? Where's Boone? 
CORMACK: Cell f-f-f-five...through the door... 
NARCISSE [grins at Lori]: I love a coward. 
196. INT. CELL CORRIDOR DOOR DAY 
Labowitz and the other cops confidently prepare for a siege. 
LABOWITZ [calling back to Boone]: Don't think you're getting sprung, freak. No way they get through that door; solid steel, armour-piercing shells wouldn't even make a dent... 
Smoke seeps through the key-hole, and from beneath the connecting door. 
LABOWITZ [cont.]: You hear me, freak? No fuckin' way! 
The smoke from the key-hole begins to form into a face, which floats on a cord of smoke/flesh from the key-hole. The smoke from beneath the door forms into breasts and rib cage, in which a heart beats. Labowitz turns and sees it. 
LABOWITZ [cont.]: Jesus Christ... 
He empties his gun through the smoke; the two cops on the other side of the smoke are hit and go down. 
An arm moves towards Labowitz; so does Rachel's face. Her beauty mesmerizes him. Her naked breasts, which float beneath the head, barely connected to it as yet, enchant him even more. 
RACHEL: Come closer...I don't want to kill you... 
Her hand presses Labowitz's rifle aside. Rachel's lips touch him. He doesn't resist, but once his mouth is sealed against hers he can't breathe. He tries to raise the rifle, but she dashes it from his hand. Then she snatches the keys from his belt and breaks the kiss. He falls to his knees, gasping. Her body completed and naked, Rachel unlocks the connecting door, then starts looking for Boone. Behind her, as Labowitz reaches for his gun, Narcisse's hand reaches in and grabs his throat. 
NARCISSE: Naughty, naughty. 
Labowitz looks up into Narcisse's scarred face and faints. Lori steps past Labowitz to the cell Rachel directs her towards. 
RACHEL: We don't have much time. 
LORI: I know. 
Lori unlocks the door. 
197. INT. BOONE'S CELL DAY 
LORI [nervous]: Boone? 
BOONE [wakes]: Stay away from me. I'll hurt you. 
LORI: I don't think so. 
BOONE: You know what I did in that room? I'm a goddamn cannibal. Stay away! 
LORI: They're going to come for you. 
The air is full of sad, melodious sounds, like whale-song. Ghostly forms appear from the smoke and drift towards him. 
ASHBERRY [in awe]: Dear Lord... 
Some of the creatures brush him as they drift by: their strange beauty entrances him. 
ASHBERRY: Dear Lord ...Forgive me... 
There are images here which have the flavour of Christian iconography. Mother and child. A man bleeding from his brow. A creature with a halo of smoke. He wanders on. 
216. SCENE DELETED 
217. EXT. OUTSIDE NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Decker watches impassively. Joyce moves towards the gate. As he reaches it an extraordinary creature appears. 
JOYCE: My God. 
It means no harm. Joyce steps aside and the creature moves off into the night. 
We cut back to Decker. 
THE MASK [V.O.]: Don't deny me Philip... 
DECKER: Soon. I promise. 
Decker hears shouts to his flank, steps back, out of sight and sees Lori and Rachel emerge from a hiding place, Lori trying to restrain Rachel from going in. 
RACHEL: Babette! 
LORI: Rachel, no! 
Rachel breaks away and runs towards the Necropolis. Lori is alone. 
THE MASK [V.O.]: Now, perfect, finish her. She's the only one who knows about us. 
DECKER: What about Boone? 
THE MASK [V.O.]: Boone's a monster. They all die tonight. 
DECKER [smiles]: All right. 
THE MASK [V.O.]: Quickly, Philip, we'll lose her. 
The briefcase is opened. The light of distant fires flicker on the mask. 
218. SCENE DELETED 
218A. INT. NECROPOLIS 
Boone and Narcisse lead the column of Breed, children and babies up from underground into the Necropolis itself. 
BOONE: Hurry up. 
NARCISSE: Is this wise? Coming above ground? 
BOONE: If we stay below they'll slaughter us. 
NARCISSE: This is their territory. 
BOONE: No. The night's ours. Now get the rest of the children up here, I'm going to find a clear way through! 
He heads away, leaving a frightened group of Breed and children. 
218B. EXT. GATES OF NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Peloquin appears overground, scanning the destruction before racing off. 
219. EXT. GATES OF NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Eigerman addresses the assembled posse. 
EIGERMAN: They're coming out, and they're armed, so watch yourselves. It's a fucking freak-show in there! We're not taking prisoners! It's us or them! Let's clean up! 
The engines rev, and the posse charges the gates. The lead vehicle, driven by a manic, grinning Kane, rams the gates, and crashes through. 
KANE: Us or them! Us or them! 
On the other side of the gates, Peloquin appears in Kane's headlights. 
KANE: Shit! 
Peloquin jumps up into the air as the car careers towards him. 
We see him somersault in the air. Kane hears him land on the car roof. We see Peloquin on the roof, bend over the windshield. 
His face appears in front of a panicking Kane, the mouth suddenly opening grotesquely wide. 
Kane slams the breaks on. Peloquin is thrown off. 
KANE: Eat dirt, fucker! 
Peloquin is thrown to the ground, his face caught in the blaze of headlights as Kane's vehicle revs and drives at him. 
KANE [ecstatic]: Yeah! 
His momentum carries the car towards the crater blown in the ground. Kane's pleasure turns to horror. 
KANE: Oh shit! Shit! 
He turns to swerve, but too late, the car heads over the edge. Wounded, Peloquin crawls off. 
Lori turns to see Decker appearing from the darkness. He attacks her, cutting her arm. She backs away before he can strike a second time, retreating towards the gates. Then she turns and walks through the reeds; Decker on her heels. 
219K. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
The posse led by Pettine invade the entrances to the Necropolis, engaging in hand-to-hand combat with the Breed. 
219L. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Boone races through the Necropolis, finding that other posse members are breaking in from other sides. 
BOONE: They're everywhere! 
219M. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
The Nightbreed children hear the sound of slaughter approaching. One of the Breed with enormous, dark eyes, speaks. 
LEOPARDO: We can't stay here. 
NARCISSE: He told us to. 
LEOPARDO: He can't help us. He's too late. 
219N. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
We see the posse shooting Breed as they move towards the children. Several are entering doorways that lead underground. 
2190. INT. MIDIAN CORE 
Posse enter the core, firing at anything that moves. 
219P. INT. BERSERKERS' CORRIDOR 
Lylesburg, his leg broken, is hobbling towards the Berserkers' chamber, as the sound of gunfire gets nearer. 
219Q. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Narcisse still keeps an increasingly panicked group of Breed and children from scattering. 
Pettine and two bloodied, grinning posse appear through the smoke. 
PETTINE: Look what we got here! A freak-show nursery school. 
The group back away, but two more posse members appear, one with a flame-thrower, another with grenades. 
PETTINE: Say goodnight. 
BOONE [from above]: Goodnight. 
Pettine looks up. Framed against the stars, Boone. He drops on Pettine breaking the man's neck. Then he and Narcisse lead the attack against the posse, dispatching them all. 
NARCISSE: What way's safe? 
BOONE: The west wall! But be quick! I'm going after Eigerman. 
219R. EXT. NECROPOLIS 
Leroy and Lude hide around the corner of a mausoleum. Two posse members are beating a Breed up with their rifle butts. Leroy heads out to help. 
LUDE: What's the plan? 
LEROY: The usual. You take the big guy. [he yells to the Naturals] Hey! 
They turn. Leroy raises his hands in surrender. 
LEROY: I wouldn't do that if I were you. 
1ST POSSE: Give me a good reason why not. 
LEROY: I'll give you two! 
The snakes emerge from his body. 
1ST POSSE: Shit! 
He raises his gun, but Lude flips over his head, landing behind him and in front of the 2nd posse member. Lude's eyes blaze. 
LUDE: Pretty gun. 
The 2nd posse member looks down at his hands. The gun is covered in snakes. He drops the gun. When he looks up Lude has gone. He turns again, backing off towards a monument. Lude is there, a living devil hidden amongst the carved variety. He takes hold of the man, turning him round and driving his horns into the man's neck. He staggers back, blood pouring from the opened wounds. 
Leroy, meanwhile, draws the 1st into an embrace. The snakes strike. Poisoned, the man dies. 
LEROY: Look at this mess. 
LUDE: Just like the old days. 
219S. EXT. NECROPOLIS 
Kane leads two cops through the mayhem, firing to right and left. He shoots a Breed against one of the mausoleums. Blood is spattered on his face. 
KANE: Look at these bastards. Fucking freaks. 
He wipes the blood from his face. Then he takes off his spectacles, and wipes the blood off them. As he does so 1st cop yelps. 
1ST COP: Yow! 
KANE: What? 
1st cop pulls a quill from the back of his neck. 
1ST COP: Where the fuck did that come from? 
236. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Tommy leads a line of five posse members who have cornered a number of wounded Breed against one of the walls. One of the creatures attempts to scramble away. Tommy guns him down. He turns to the other gunmen. 
TOMMY: Watch this! 
The two posse members prepare to kill the Breed. The ground around them begins to shudder, and a fist bursts out of the ground and grabs the leg of a posse member and drags him down. 
Another fist then bursts out of the ground. 
Then in silhouette the Berserkers climb out of the earth beside the posse. Two of the posse turn, and fire at the Berserkers, who advance through the hail of the bullets, and quickly dispatch the two gunmen. Tommy has begun to fire at the feet of the cornered Breed, obliging them to dance. 
TOMMY [laughs]: Dance, fuckers! 
The display gets appreciative hoots and laughter from the three surviving posse members, who - like Tommy - are as yet unaware that the Berserkers are advancing on them. Tommy continues to fire at the ground around the Breed, as one by one his three companions are dispatched by the Berserkers. We close in on Tommy, whose face is suddenly spattered with blood. He stops firing. He looks round to find himself surrounded by Berserkers. The shadows fall over him. Their hands take hold of him. 
We see the shadow of what they do to him on the walls: his body is torn apart. 
We cut to the Berserkers. Ghost has Tommy's gun, with the hand still attached. He tosses it aside, roaring like King Kong. The wounded Breed hurry away as the Berserkers head off in search of new mischief. 
237. EXT. NECROPOLIS NEAR THE GATES NIGHT 
With the tide turning inside the Necropolis, a disorganized retreat is underway. Eigerman is at the gate watching the remains of his 'army' staggering away. Joyce is watching the scene. 
EIGERMAN: Stand your ground! Stand your ground! They've got to come this way. We can mow 'em down. 
He climbs up on a vehicle which is parked at the gates. In the driving seat is Gibbs. Beside him, a woman, her face smoke-stained, her expression near catatonic. 
EIGERMAN: Gibbs? 
GIBBS: Sir? 
EIGERMAN: Lights! 
Gibbs switches the lights on, to pierce the smoke. Bad move. The illumination shows the Berserkers appearing. They approach the vehicle. 
EIGERMAN: Shit! 
Eigerman jumps from the vehicle, as the retreating posse fire at the Berserkers. It's a useless response. Bloodied but unbowed, the Berserkers run at the vehicles. The woman throws herself out, but Gibbs isn't quick enough. One of the Berserkers pushes the vehicle up the wall of the Necropolis, and Blatz, a small, vicious creature, stamps on the roof. Inside, Gibbs cowers as the roof is beaten in. He is crushed. 
Joyce, who has been watching this entire scene, moves away from the gate towards the Necropolis. The fires are dying down somewhat, and an eerie half-light bathes the scene he moves through. A few surviving posse hurry away, firing at every movement in the shadows. 
Back at the gate we see one of the escaping Berserkers flip another car over, while his brothers dispatch posse members. The survivors simply drop their weapons and flee. 
237A. SCENE DELETED 
237B. SCENE DELETED 
238. INT. MAUSOLEUM NIGHT 
The dog-faced man lies dead at the door and beside him Babette, her face subtly bestial. Joyce hears Babette weeping; her cries hit him hard. He goes to her, gathers her up gently in his arms. Babette clings to him; he sees her arms are partially transformed into claws, but he keeps holding her. 
Boone emerges from the depths, into the wrecked mausoleum. 
BABETTE: Boone...[he goes to them] Lori. She's hurt. 
BOONE: Where? 
Babette points outside. 
239. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Lori runs, Decker follows, his steps steady, relentless and gaining. Lori takes another stride and the ground gives way beneath her. She slides down into the earth. 
240. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Boone is tracking them, Joyce following, carrying Babette, who has a vision. 
BABETTE: Falling! 
241. EXT. BELOW MIDIAN 
Chaos, and collapse. Earth is falling all around. Lori picks herself up and finds her way back up is blocked by debris. She has no choice but to cross the swaying walkways, while the air thickens with dust and smoke. 
There are only one or two Breed left alive down here, desperately collecting their belongings. They exit the chamber leaving the smoking bowls...We track towards the bowls, as the contents brighten and bubble. 
241A. INT. BELOW MIDIAN 
Lori descends a flight of stairs, to find Peloquin badly wounded at the bottom. 
PELOQUIN: It's all over. I didn't believe the prophesies and now it's all over. 
LORI: What prophesies? 
Peloquin takes her arm. 
PELOQUIN: You want to see? 
241B. INT. ENTRANCE TO MURAL CHAMBER NIGHT 
Peloquin pushes Lori ahead of him. 
PELOQUIN: See? 
We track towards the mural. Lori can barely believe her eyes. Here, laid out on the walls, is a whole history; and featured amongst its more recent additions, the face of Boone. 
PELOQUIN: Yes, it's him. 
Boone squatting in front of his fire of love letters. Boone dead in the reeds. 
PELOQUIN: All these years waiting for a saviour. But he hasn't saved us. He's destroyed us. I made him, and he's destroyed us. 
RACHEL/BAPHOMET: ...You must rebuild what you've destroyed. 
BOONE: Where? 
RACHEL/BAPHOMET: That you must find yourself. In the world above. 
BOONE: I don't...I don't know how... 
RACHEL/BAPHOMET: You shall not be alone. You will find me there and heal me. [holds him close] You are not Boone... 
And now the words emerge from Baphomet himself, shaking the chamber. 
BAPHOMET: ...you are Cabal! 
Boone/Cabal is released. Baphomet is consumed in light. The Council move towards him to finish their task. 
LORI [O.S.]: Boone? 
Boone/Cabal turns; Lori stands at the bottom of the slope, offering a hand. He takes it, they start up the slope. 
Cowering in a niche inside the chamber, out of sight, watching in wonder is Ashberry. Transfixed by Baphomet, he crosses himself. 
Boone/Cabal glances back. The Council receive pieces of Baphomet from the light wrapping his smoking fragments in shrouds. The light builds to its brightest level. Pieces of ceiling begin to fall. 
246A. INT. VARIOUS CHAMBERS 
The bowls start to explode with sparks of white light. 
247. INT. BELOW MIDIAN 
Boone/Cabal and Lori race up towards the surface, as Midian continues to collapse around them. 
248. INT. BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
Ashberry descends the stairs into the blaze of light. Tears pour down his cheeks. 
He watches as the Council prepare to take down Baphomet's head. 
Near to him is one of the bowls of Baphomet's light. Ashberry approaches it, hungry for a taste of this glory. He reaches to touch the bowl. As he does so Baphomet's eyes fix on him. The bowl flips in the air. The fluid it holds rains down on Ashberry like acid. He falls back, his body smoking. 
249. EXT. NECROPOLIS NIGHT 
Boone/Cabal and Lori reach the surface and race through the ruined Necropolis, flames all around them. And then, behind them ... 
250. INT. BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
The tentacles attached to Baphomet's head are detached. 
The blaze of light instantly begins to diminish... 
250A. INT. MIDIAN CORE 
The lights start to go out in the core, and earth begins to pour from the tunnels. 
We see it flood the various corridors, with a shuddering roar. 
250B. INT. BAPHOMET'S CHAMBER 
We glimpse Baphomet's head being covered by the Council, as the roars increase... 
CUT TO: 
251. EXT. OUTSIDE THE GATES NIGHT 
Boone/Cabal and Lori find Joyce, holding Babette, protecting her, near the gates. 
Joyce steps back from the form of Rachel, who pulls her veils around her and holds out her arms. 
RACHEL: Give me my child... 
Joyce looks at Lori, Boone/Cabal, at Babette and Rachel. He tenderly hands the child over. Rachel holds Babette and they both disappear into the darkness. 
JOYCE [to Boone/Cabal]: ...I never understood...nobody ever told me... 
He steps away from them and the night engulfs him. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
252. INT. MIDIAN CORE 
The earth has almost obliterated the core entirely. 
253. EXT. OUTSIDE THE GATES NIGHT 
The roar ceases. Silence. 
254. EXT. NECROPOLIS 
Lori and Boone stand in the reeds as the last, bright bloom of the fires dies away on their faces. Figures move away through the smoke, creatures we recognize. The drummer beats out a tattoo as they depart. 
Narcisse appears from the darkness. As he does so, a final explosion roars up from the underground. In the smoke pillar above the site, Baphomet's image momentarily appears before the wind disperses it. 
NARCISSE: Never piss off a God. 
Lori looks up into the sky. 
CUT TO: 
Lori's P.O.V. of the sky, with other Breed, spirits of smoke and light, moving away into the night. 
LORI: Where are they going? 
