NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN 
Written by 
Joel Coen & Ethan Coen 
Based on the Novel by 
Cormac McCarthy 
FADE IN: 
EXT. MOUNTAINS - NIGHT 
Snow is falling in a gusting wind. The voice of an old man: 
VOICE OVER I was sheriff of this county when I was twenty-five. Hard to believe. Grandfather was a lawman. Father too. Me and him was sheriff at the same time, him in Plano and me here. I think he was pretty proud of that. I know I was. 
EXT. WEST TEXAS LANDSCAPE - DAWN/DAY 
We dissolve to another West Texas landscape. Sun is rising. 
VOICE OVER Some of the old-time sheriffs never even wore a gun. A lot of folks find that hard to believe. Jim Scarborough never carried one. That's the younger Jim. Gaston Boykins wouldn't wear one. Up in Comanche County. 
We dissolve through more landscapes, bringing us to full day. None of them show people or human habitation. 
VOICE OVER I always liked to hear about the old- timers. Never missed a chance to do so. Nigger Hoskins over in Bastrop County knowed everbody's phone number off by heart. You can't help but compare yourself against the old- timers. Can't help but wonder how they would've operated these times. There was this boy I sent to the gas chamber at Huntsville here a while back. My arrest and my testimony. He killed a fourteen-year-old girl. Papers said it was a crime of passion but he told me there wasn't any passion to it. 
EXT. WEST TEXAS ROAD - DAY 
The last landscape, hard sunbaked prairie, is surveyed in a long slow pan. 
VOICE OVER Told me that he'd been planning to kill somebody for about as long as he could remember. Said that if they turned him out he'd do it again. 
The pan has brought into frame the flashing light bars of a police car stopped on the shoulder. A young sheriff's deputy is opening the rear door on the far side of the car. 
VOICE OVER Said he knew he was going to hell. Be there in about fifteen minutes. I don't know what to make of that. I surely don't. 
Close on a pair of hands manacled behind someone's back. A hand enters to take the prisoner by one arm. 
VOICE OVER The crime you see now, it's hard to even take its measure. It's not that I'm afraid of it. 
Back to the shot over the light bars: the deputy, with a hand on top of the prisoner's head to help him clear the door frame, eases the prisoner into the backseat. All we see of the prisoner is his dark hair disappearing into the car. 
VOICE OVER I always knew you had to be willing to die to even do this job -- not to be glorious. But I don't want to push my chips forward and go out and meet something I don't understand. 
The deputy closes the back door. He opens the front passenger door and reaches down for something-apparently heavy-at his feet. 
VOICE OVER You can say it's my job to fight it but I don't know what it is anymore. 
The deputy swings the heavy object into the front passenger seat. Matching inside the car: it looks like an oxygen tank with a petcock at the top and tubing running off it. 
VOICE OVER ...More than that, I don't want to know. A man would have to put his soul at hazard. The deputy slams the door. 
On the door slam we cut to Texas highway racing under the lens, the landscape flat to the horizon. The siren whoops. 
VOICE OVER ...He would have to say, okay, I'll be part of this world. 
INT. SHERIFF LAMAR'S OFFICE - DAY 
THE DEPUTY Seated in the sheriff's office, on the phone. The prisoner stands in the background. Focus is too soft for us to see his features but his posture shows that his arms are still behind his back. 
DEPUTY Yessir, just walked in the door. Sheriff he had some sort of a thing on him like one of them oxygen tanks for emphysema or somethin'. And a hose from it run down his sleeve... 
INT. TRAILER BEDROOM - NIGHT 
We are drifting down toward Moss as he lies in bed next to Carla Jean. He lies still, eyes closed, but he is shaking his head. As the camera stops he opens his eyes, grimacing. 
MOSS All right. 
He looks at the bedside clock. 
Its LED display: 1:06. He swings his legs off the bed, looks back at Carla Jean, and pulls the blanket up over her shoulder. 
INT. TRAILER KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Close on a gallon jug as Moss hold it under the tap, filling it with water. Carla Jean appears in the doorway, looking sleepy. 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn. 
MOSS Yeah. 
CARLA JEAN What're you doin', baby? 
MOSS Goin' out. 
CARLA JEAN Goin' where? 
MOSS Somethin' I forgot to do. I'll be back. 
CARLA JEAN What're you goin' to do? Moss turns from the sink, screwing the top onto the jug. 
MOSS I'm fixin' to do somethin' dumbern hell but I'm goin' anyways. He starts toward the front door. 
MOSS ...If I don't come back tell Mother I love her. 
CARLA JEAN Your mother's dead, Llewelyn. 
MOSS Well then I'll tell her myself. 
INT. TRUCK/EXT. CATTLEGUARD ROAD - NIGHT 
A MAP A detailed topographical survey map, illuminated by a flashlight. Moss is studying it in the cab of his truck. After a beat he folds the map. He checks the .45 taken off the corpse with the money. Wider: the pickup truck parked outside the cattle guard. After a beat, the truck drives over the grate onto the unpaved part of the road, jogging up the uneven terrain. Through the windshield, the view is pitch black except for the boulders and scrub picked out by the crazily bouncing headlights. 
EXT. BASIN - NIGHT 
DOOR SLAM We are close on the water jug slapping against Moss's leg as we pull him through the darkness. The shape of his parked truck is just visible behind him, silhouetted on the crest by the glow of the moon already set. Walking across the basin to the near truck Moss freezes, 
NOTICING: Its driver's-side door: closed. Moss scans the horizon. Its only blemish remains his own pickup. He jogs the few remaining paces to the pickup. He sets down the gallon jug. Softly: 
MOSS Hello?... No answer. He opens the door. The man's body is still held upright by the shoulder harness but his head, flayed by buckshot, is tipped away. Moss glances at the bed of the truck. 
Empty. He again looks at the horizon. 
Now another pickup stands in silhouette next to his own. Two men are there. Moss covers behind the dead man's truck. He eases his head out for another look. Only one man visible now. Sounds hard to identify. Something airy. Up on the crest his pickup rocks and settles. Its tires are being slashed. The other pickup's engine coughs to life. Headlights and roof lights go on. Moss again covers behind the vehicle. 
A search-spot sweeps back and forth across the basin tableau of bodies and trucks. After a few trips back and forth something happens to the spot: its weaving light begins to bounce. We can hear the jouncing suspension of the pickup as it trundles down the incline. But the light tells the perspective of the slowly approaching truck. Moss stays in the lee of his sheltering vehicle as he runs, doubled over, directly away from the light, keeping to the shadow that wipes on and off. A gunshot. Its impact kicks up dirt just ahead of Moss to his right. Moss turns to see: Two jogging men flanking the truck like infantry escorting a tank. One has just halted to fire; the other is now raising his gun. Moss tacks and sprints and rolls under a second abandoned pickup to his left. Another shot sounds and misses. Bullets plunk into the metal of the truck body. One bullet skips off the dirt in front of the truck and pings up into the undercarriage. Moss is elbowing out the far side, next to a body lying by the truck's passenger door. The firing has stopped: Moss steals a look over the hood: The pursuing pickup is slowing so that the two gunmen can swing onto the running boards. 
The truck accelerates and as it veers around the first abandoned pickup its lights swing off Moss's cover truck. 
Moss sprints off, doubled over, at a perpendicular to his previous path. He hits the ground, pressing himself into the earth, head between his forearms. He elbows away as the truck bears on his former cover. 
EXT. RIVER GORGE - DAWN 
He tops the small rise and straightens and flat-out runs. We hear the pickup's engine racing and see, behind Moss, its spot sweeping backlight across the crest. Moss is running towards the declivity of a river gorge. Sky there is pink from unrisen sun. Moss bears on the gorge, panting. 
The pickup bounces up into view on the crest behind him, roof lights blazing. It is pointed off at an angle. Its spotlight sweeps the river plain. It finds Moss. The truck reorients as it bounces down in pursuit. A muzzle flash precedes the dull whump of the shotgun. Moss races on toward the river. Another shotgun whump. Moss stumbles, turns to look behind him. The truck, gaining ground. A man stands up out of the sunroof, one hand on top of the cab, the other holding a shotgun. Moss is almost to the steep riverbank. Another whump of the shotgun. Shot catches Moss on the right shoulder. It tears the back of his shirt away and sends him over the crest of the river bank. Moss airborne, ass over elbows, hits near the bottom of the sandy slope with a loud fhump. He rolls to a stop and looks up. We hear a skidding squeal and see dirt and dust float over the lip of the ridge, thrown by the truck's hard stop. As Moss pulls off his boots we hear voices from the men in the truck. There is the clank of its tailgate being dropped and sounds of activity on the hollow metal of its bed. 
PROPRIETOR Well... I need to see about closin'. 
CHIGURH See about closing. 
PROPRIETOR Yessir. 
CHIGURH What time do you close? 
PROPRIETOR Now. We close now. 
CHIGURH Now is not a time. What time do you close. 
PROPRIETOR Generally around dark. At dark. Chigurh stares, slowly chewing. 
CHIGURH You don't know what you're talking about, do you? 
PROPRIETOR Sir? 
CHIGURH I said you don't know what you're talking about. Chigurh chews. 
CHIGURH ...What time do you go to bed. 
PROPRIETOR Sir? 
CHIGURH You're a bit deaf, aren't you? I said what time do you go to bed. 
PROPRIETOR Well... A pause. 
PROPRIETOR ...I'd say around nine-thirty. Somewhere around nine-thirty. 
CHIGURH I could come back then. 
PROPRIETOR Why would you be comin' back? We'll be closed. 
CHIGURH You said that. He continues to stare, chewing. 
PROPRIETOR Well... I need to close now -- 
CHIGURH You live in that house behind the store? 
PROPRIETOR Yes I do. 
CHIGURH You've lived here all your life? A beat. 
PROPRIETOR This was my wife's father's place. Originally. 
CHIGURH You married into it. 
PROPRIETOR We lived in Temple Texas for many years. Raised a family there. In Temple. We come out here about four years ago. 
CHIGURH You married into it. 
PROPRIETOR ...If that's the way you wanna put it. 
CHIGURH I don't have some way to put it. That's the way it is. 
He finishes the cashews and wads the packet and sets it on the counter where it begins to slowly unkink. The proprietor's eyes have tracked the packet. Chigurh's eyes stay on the proprietor. 
CHIGURH ...What's the most you've ever lost on a coin toss? 
PROPRIETOR Sir? 
CHIGURH The most. You ever lost. On a coin toss. 
CARLA JEAN So... for how long do we have to... 
MOSS Baby, at what point would you quit botherin' to look for your two million dollars? 
Carla Jean stares, thinking. 
CARLA JEAN What'm I supposed to tell Mama? 
MOSS Try standin' in the door and hollerin: Mama I'm home. 
CARLA JEAN 
LLEWELYN -- 
MOSS C'mon, pack your things. Anything you leave you ain't gonna see again. Carla Jean begins peevishly tossing things into a bag: 
CARLA JEAN Well thanks for fallin' all over and apologizing. 
MOSS Things happened. I can't take 'em back. 
EXT. CATTLEGUARD ROAD - NIGHT 
POINT-OF-VIEW THROUGH WINDSHIELD It is night. No other vehicles on this paved road. Our car turns off and rattles over a cattleguard. Parked on the other side is a Ramcharger. Its passenger door starts to open. Outside: Chigurh emerges from his Ford. The man emerging from the truck wears a Western-cut suit. 
MAN Mind ridin' bitch? 
EXT. BASIN - NIGHT 
THE RAMCHARGER Bouncing through ungraded terrain. It stops and discharges the three men-the driver and his partner, both in suits, from either side, and then Chigurh from the middle seat. 
They have pulled over at Moss's truck. 
CHIGURH This his truck? He is opening the door and looking at the plate riveted inside. 
MAN Mm-hm. 
CHIGURH Screwgie. The man reaches into a pocket and hands over a screwdriver. As Chigurh works it under the plate: 
CHIGURH ...Who slashed his tires? 
DRIVER Wudden us. 
EXT. BASIN - NIGHT 
A flashlight beam picks out the dog carcass. 
DRIVER That's a dead dog. 
CHIGURH Thank you. Chigurh plays the flashlight around the scene. Dead bodies on the ground. 
CHIGURH ...Where's the transponder? 
MAN In the truck. I'll get it. 
DRIVER These are some ripe petunias. Chigurh gives his flashlight to the driver. 
CHIGURH Hold this please. He bends down and takes a 9 mm. Glock off of one of the dead bodies and checks the clip. The other man is returning from the truck. He hands Chigurh a small electronic receiver. 
CHIGURH ...You getting anything on this? 
MAN Not a bleep. 
CHIGURH All right... Chigurh stands and holds his hand out for his flashlight. The driver hands it to him. Chigurh shines it in his face and shoots him through the forehead. As the man falls Chigurh pans the light to the other man who has watched his partner drop. He looks up, puzzled, and is shot as well. 
BELL It's the same tire tread comin back as goin'. Made about the same time. You can see the sipes real clear. Wendell is standing in the stirrups, looking up the ridge. 
WENDELL Truck's just yonder. Somebodies pried the inspection plate off the door. Bell looks up, circling the truck. 
BELL I know this truck. Belongs to a feller named Moss. 
WENDELL Llewelyn Moss? 
BELL That's the boy. 
WENDELL You figure him for a dope runner? Bell sits his horse looking at the slashed tires. 
BELL I don't know but I kindly doubt it. 
BASIN - DAY 
BY THE BODIES The two lawmen are dismounting. 
WENDELL Hell's bells, they even shot the dog. They walk towards the near truck. 
WENDELL ...Well this is just a deal gone wrong. Sheriff Bell stoops to look at casings. 
BELL Yes, appears to have been a glitch or two. 
WENDELL What calibers you got there, Sheriff? 
BELL Nine millimeter. Couple of .45 ACP's. He stands, looking at the truck. 
BELL ...Somebody unloaded on this thing with a shotgun. 
WENDELL Mm. Bell opens the door of the truck. Looks at the dead driver. 
WENDELL ...How come do you reckon the coyotes ain't been at 'em? 
BELL I don't know... He shuts the door softly with two hands. 
BELL ...Supposedly they won't eat a Mexican. Wendell is looking at the two corpses close together, wearing suits. 
WENDELL These boys appear to be managerial. Bell walks back toward the bed of the truck as Wendell 
APPRAISES: 
WENDELL ...I think we're lookin' at more'n one fracas. A gesture toward the scattered bodies. 
WENDELL ...Wild West over there... A nod down at the two men in suits with head wounds. 
WENDELL ...Execution here. Bell, at the back of the truck, wets a finger and runs it against the bed and looks at it. 
BELL That Mexican brown dope. Wendell strolls among the bodies. 
WENDELL These boys is all swole up. So this was earlier: gettin set to trade. Then, whoa, differences... You know: might not of even been no money. 
BELL That's possible. 
WENDELL But you don't believe it. 
BELL No. Probably I don't. 
WENDELL It's a mess, ain't it Sheriff? Bell is remounting. 
BELL If it ain't it'll do til a mess gets here. 
EXT. MOSS' TRAILER - DAY 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn? 
MOSS Yes ma'am? 
CARLA JEAN You are comin back, ain't ya? 
MOSS I shall return. 
EXT. MOSS'S TRAILER - DAY 
Wendell is knocking at its door. Sheriff Bell stands one step behind him. 
WENDELL Sheriff's Department! No answer. 
BELL Look at the lock. They both look. A beat. 
WENDELL We goin' in? 
BELL Gun out and up. Wendell unholsters his gun but hesitates. 
WENDELL What about yours? 
BELL I'm hidin' behind you. Wendell eases the door open. 
WENDELL Sheriff's Department! 
INT. MOSS' TRAILER - DAY 
The men cautiously enter, Wendell leading. 
WENDELL ...Nobody here. He lowers his gun and starts to holster it. 
BELL No reason not to stay safe. Wendell keeps the gun out. 
WENDELL No sir. He goes to the bedroom door as Sheriff Bell, seeing the lock cylinder on the floor, stoops and hefts it. He looks up at the wall opposite the door: the small dent. 
Wendell pulls his head out of the bedroom. 
WENDELL ...I believe they've done lit a shuck. 
BELL Believe you're right. 
WENDELL That from the lock? Sheriff Bell stands and wanders, looking around. 
BELL Probably must be. 
WENDELL So when was he here? 
BELL I don't know. Oh. He is at the counter staring at something. 
BELL ...Now that's aggravating. 
WENDELL Sheriff? Sheriff Bell points at the carton of milk. 
BELL Still sweating. Wendell is agitated. 
WENDELL Whoa! Sheriff! Sheriff Bell unhurriedly opens a cabinet. He looks closes it, opens another. 
WENDELL ...Sheriff, we just missed him! We gotta circulate this! On the radio! Sheriff Bell takes a glass from the cabinet. 
BELL Well, okay... He pours milk into the glass. 
BELL ...What do we circulate? He sits on the sofa and takes a sip from the milk. 
MOSS You have camping supplies? 
ANOTHER COUNTER A clerk stares at Moss. 
CLERK Tent poles. 
MOSS Uh-huh. 
CLERK You already have the tent? 
MOSS Somethin' like that. 
CLERK Well you give me the model number of the tent I can order you the poles. 
MOSS Never mind. I want a tent. 
CLERK What kind of tent? 
MOSS The kind with the most poles. 
CLERK Well I guess that'd be our ten-foot backyard Per-Gola. You can stand up in it. Well, some people could stand up in it. Six foot clearance at the ridge. You might just could. 
MOSS Let me have that one. Where's the nearest hardware store? 
INT. MOSS' NEW MOTEL ROOM - DAY 
He has the shotgun wedged in an open drawer and is sawing off its barrel with a hacksaw. 
MINUTES LATER 
Moss sits on the bed dressing the barrel with a file. He puts down the file, looks at the barrel. He slides the forearm back and forward again and lets the hammer down with his thumb. He looks the gun over, appraising, and then opens the box of shells and starts feeding in the heavy waxed loads. 
INT. FIRST MOTEL LOBBY - DAY 
Moss enters carrying a new duffle bag. The same woman is behind the counter. 
MOSS Could I get another room. 
WOMAN You want to change rooms? 
MOSS No, I want to keep my room, and get another one. 
WOMAN Another additional. 
MOSS Uh-huh.You got a map of the rooms? She inclines her head to look under the counter. 
WOMAN Yeah we had a sorta one. 
She finds a brochure and hands it across. It shows a car from the fifties parked in front of the hotel in hard sunlight. 
Moss unfolds the brochure and studies. 
MOSS What about one forty-two. 
WOMAN You can have the one next to yours if you want. One twenty. It ain't took. 
MOSS No, one forty-two. 
WOMAN That's got two double beds. 
EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY 
An arcing point of view on the window of Moss's old room. The curtain still slightly open. A reverse shows Moss crossing the lot from the office carrying his long nylon duffle bag, studying the room. He looks further down the street. The truck with the roof lights is still parked there. 
CHIGURH He stands at the door of Moss's first room. He eases an ear against it. He steps back. He punches out the lock cylinder with the airgun and kicks in the door, raising the shotgun. A Mexican in a guyabera reclines on one of the two double beds. He is scrabbling for a machine pistol on the nightstand. Chigurh fires three times quickly. The damped blasts have the low resonance of chugs into a bottle. 
MOSS 
Head still in the airduct, frozen, listening. 
EXT./INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
CHIGURH Also frozen, back against the wall outside the room, to one side of the open door. After a beat he steps back into the open doorway leveling the gun. Inside the room: no movement. Much of the man on the bed is spattered against the chewed-up headboard. The bathroom door is ajar, its light on. A long beat. 
Movement in the wedge of light. Immediately, chugs from the shotgun chew up bathroom door and nearby wallboard. A cry from inside. A brief chatter of machine pistol. 
INT. MOTEL DUCT - NIGHT 
MOSS'S POV Along the air vent. The machine-pistol chatter crosses the cut. We hear bullets snap through metal. The sound brings on indirect light as holes are punched in the duct somewhere around the bend. Moss holds still as the galvanized metal faintly thunders. The flashlight resting on it wobbles. 
EXT./INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
CHIGURH Gun leveled, at the open door. Again, no movement. He advances into the room, gun pointing at the bathroom door. As he advances he swings the gun briefly over at the closet door and fires. The splintered-in door reveals no occupant. 
Chigurh angles around the double bed to get a view of that wedge of bathroom floor visible through its door. Blood is pooling out from the right. 
Chigurh fires at the baseboard to the right of the door. 
INT. MOTEL DUCT - NIGHT 
Moss makes another attempt to hook the bag. The hook takes. Moss drags the case inches out into the duct's bend before the hook slides off again. 
INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM BATHROOM - NIGHT 
CHIGURH He uses the shotgun barrel to push open what's left of the bathroom door. 
The mirror over the facing sink gives a view of most of the hidden side of the bedroom/ bathroom party wall. Partial view of a man pressed against the wall, standing in the tub in the corner. From his posture and the one visible hand he seems unarmed. Chigurh enters the bathroom. The cornered man is unhurt but terrified. He holds up his hands. 
MAN No me mate. The man on the floor is quite dead. A machine pistol lies in one out-flung hand. Chigurh looks back up at the survivor. 
CHIGURH How'd you find it? 
MAN No me mate. Chigurh walks unhurriedly to the tub. The man watches him, hands up, vibrating. Chigurh reaches with his free hand and pulls the shower curtain most of the way round, hiding the man. He angles the nose of the shotgun in and fires. 
MOSS 
The hook again snags a strap on the case. Moss pulls, carefully. 
INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - MAIN ROOM - NIGHT 
Chigurh emerges from the bathroom. His socks are sodden with gore. He sits on the bed and peels them off. He rubs the bottom of each foot with the ankle of each sock and drops the socks to the floor. He rises and opens three bureau drawers, which are empty, and leaves them open. He pulls open what remains of the closet door. Empty. He looks under the bed. He stands, looks around. He looks up. His look lingers. 
Close on the airduct grille: it is dusty. Rub-marks have made four dark bands across the dusty slats. Chigurh's fingers rise into frame and meet the grille, roughly aligning with the finger marks in the dust. Close on a screwhead: a dime enters and engages the screw and starts turning it. 
INT. MOTEL DUCT - NIGHT 
From inside the duct: fingers reach through the grille and Chigurh's hand pushes it up into the duct, then angles it and withdraws it. Faintly, under the distant airy drone of the compressor, we hear the grate clatter to the floor. The back of Chigurh's head appears. He aims a flashlight away down the far length of the duct. A beat. He pivots to face us. His point-of-view: the length of the duct, empty, with a drag-mark through the middle of the dust. Back to Chigurh. His look holds. He ducks out. 
INT. 1ST MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
In the room: Chigurh steps down from the chair and pulls the receiver from his pocket and turns it on. It beeps once. 
Silence. 
Frowning, looking down at the receiver, Chigurh makes a slow sweep with it. The silence holds-snapped off by car steady as we cut to: 
INT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT 
MAN Yes? 
WELLS Can I get my parking ticket validated? 
The man gazes. 
MAN ...An attempt at humor, I suppose. 
WELLS I'm sorry. 
MAN Goodbye, Mr. Wells. 
EXT. EAGLE PASS TOWN SQUARE - DUSK 
Moss is getting out of the station wagon with his duffle and document case. 
It is a town square. Among the old buildings is the Hotel Eagle, identified by a neon above the front door. 
INT. HOTEL EAGLE LOBBY - NIGHT 
Moss enters. Behind the front desk an older man sits reading Ring magazine. He has a hand-rolled cigarette. 
MOSS One room, one night. 
CLERK That's twenty-six dollars. 
MOSS You on all night? 
CLERK Yessir, be here til ten tomorrow morning. Moss pushes a hundred along with smaller bills across the desk. 
MOSS For you. I ain't asking you to do anything illegal. The clerk looks at the hundred-dollar bill without reaching. 
CLERK I'm waitin' to hear your description of that. 
MOSS There's somebody lookin' for me. Not police. Just call me if anyone else checks in tonight. 
INT. SECOND-FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Moss is mounting the stairs from the lobby. The carpeted hallway is lined by transom-topped doors. Moss goes to a door halfway down on his left. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Moss enters a room with old oak furniture and high ceilings. He sets the document case next to the bed. He unzips the duffel and takes out the shotgun which he lays on the bed, and then goes to the window. He parts the curtain to look down. The street is empty. Mexican music floats up faintly from a bar somewhere not far away. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER 
The room is dark. The music is gone. We are looking straight down on Moss lying, clothed, on the bed. We are booming straight down toward him. After a beat he shakes his head. He opens his eyes, grimacing. 
MOSS There just ain't no way. He sits up and turns on the bedside lamp. The shot gun and document case are on the floor by the bed. Moss swings the document case onto the bed and unclasps it and upends the money onto the bed. He feels the bottom of the case, squeezing it with one hand inside and one hand out, looking for a false bottom. He eyeballs the case, turning it over and around. He starts riffling money packets. He finds one that binds. It has hundreds on the outside but ones inside with the centers cut out. In the hollow is a sending unit the size of a Zippo lighter. 
He holds the sender, staring at it. A long beat. 
From somewhere, a dull chug. The sound is hard to read-a compressor going on, a door thud, maybe something else. The sound has brought Moss's look up. He sits listening. No further sound. Moss reaches to uncradle the rotary phone by the bed. He dials 0. We hear ringing filtered through the handset. Also, faintly, offset, we hear the ring direct from downstairs. After five rings Moss cradles the phone. He goes to the door, reaches for the knob, but hesitates. 
He gets down on his hands and knees and listens at the crack under the door. An open airy sound like a seashell put to your ear. Moss rises and turns to the bed. He piles money back into the document case but freezes suddenly-for no reason we can see. A long beat on his motionless back. We gradually become aware of a faint high-frequency beeping, barely audible. Its source is indeterminate. Moss clasps the document case, picks up his shotgun and eases himself to a sitting position on the bed, facing the door. He looks at the line of light under it. The beeps approach, though still not loud. A long wait. At length a soft shadow appears in the line of light below the door. It lingers there. The beeping-stops. A beat. Now the soft shadow becomes more focused. It resolves into two columns of dark: feet planted before the door. Moss raises his shotgun toward the door. A long beat. Moss adjusts his grip on the shotgun and his finger tightens on the trigger. The shadow moves, unhurriedly, rightward. The band of light beneath the door is once again unshadowed. Quiet. Moss stares. 
The band of light under the door. Moss stares. Silently, the light goes out. Something for Moss to think about. He stares. The hallway behind the door is now dark. The door is defined only from his side, by streetlight-spill through the window. Moss stares. He shifts, starts to rise, doesn't. A beat. A report -- not a gunshot, but a stamping sound, followed by a pneumatic hiss. 
It brings a dull impact and Moss recoils, hit. He winces, feeling his chest. The door is shuddering creakily in. It is all strange. Moss gropes in his lap and picks something up. The lock cylinder. The creaking door comes to rest, ajar. Moss fires. The shotgun blast roars in the confined space and for an instant turns the room orange. The chewed-up door wobbles back against the jamb and creakily bounces in again. Moss has already risen and is hoisting the document case. 
FROM OUTSIDE HIS WINDOW Moss finishes draping his shotgun by its strap across his back and climbs out onto the ledge with the document case. He swings the document case out and drops it. The bracketing for the hotel's sign gives Moss a handhold. He grabs it as inside the room the door is kicked open. Moss swings down as, with a muted thump, orange muzzleflash strobes the room. Moss drops. 
EXT. HOTEL EAGLE SIDEWALK - NIGHT 
MOSS Yeah. 
YOUTH Okay, lemme have the money. 
MOSS It's right here. Give me the coat. 
YOUTH Lemme hold the money. Moss does. 
MOSS Gimme the clothes. The youth starts to peel them. 
MOSS ...And let me have your beer. 
YOUTH ...How much? 
SECOND YOUTH Brian. Give him the beer. 
MINUTES LATER The boys are receding. Moss pours the beer over his head, rubbing blood away. He opens his shirt. He inspects the wounds in his midriff, entrance and exit. Pulsing blood laps weakly out. He shrugs off his shirt, wraps it around his waist and knots it. He starts to put on the new shirt. Something stops him. He pauses. He vomits into the roadbed. 
He straightens slowly and puts on the new shirt. He looks out. 
He is not yet over the river: wind stirs the cane on the bank. He looks up: Chain-link fence encloses the walkway to a height of about twelve feet, curling inward at the top. He looks down the walkway. The three boys are distant figures. He looks up the walkway. A few paces up a light pole stanchion stands flush to the guardrail that separates road and walkway. He goes to the stanchion and uses it to hoist himself onto the guardrail, his free hand holding the case. 
Standing on top of the curved metal rail and holding the post for balance, he kneebends down and up and heaves the case. It sails clear of the chain-link fence. A short beat and we hear a thump. Moss pants for a moment, recovering from the strain of the toss. He eases himself off the guardrail and goes to the fence and looks at the bank below. One gnarled tree stands out in the cane. The case, wherever it landed, is not visible. 
EXT. GUARDSHACK MEXICAN SIDE - NIGHT 
There is a lighted guardshack at the end of the walkway. Inside, a uniformed guard. Moss walks unsteadily up. He tilts the beer bottle in salute at the guard. The guard impassively lets him proceed. 
EXT. MEXICAN SQUARE - DAWN 
BLACK In black, an insanely cheerful mariachi song. Fade in on the mariachis. We are looking steeply up at them, dutch-angled. They beam down at us, energetically thumping their oversized guitars and bajo sextos. We boom woozily up and start to un-dutch. 
Reverse on Moss struggling to a sitting position on the park bench where he'd been lying. A public square. 
Back to the mariachis. Beaming, singing. Their smiles gradually fade. The playing falls off to silence. In the silence, birds chirp. The musicians are looking quizzically down. Moss's arm swings up in the foreground, extending a bloody hundred-dollar bill. On Moss. His coat has swung open to expose his bloody midriff. His look up is glazed. 
MOSS Doctor. 
The mariachis stare. Moss waggles the bill. 
MOSS ...Medico. Por favor. 
INT. RAMCHARGER/EXT. WAL-MART - DAY 
We are close on a patch of its front seat. Day. The pickup is parked. The piece of upholstery we are looking at has blood soaked into it. On the sound of the door opening we cut wider. We are in the parking lot of a Wal-Mart. Chigurh, climbing in, tosses a brown paper bag onto the passenger side. He has a dark towel wrapped around one leg. As he slides behind the wheel the wrapped part of his leg slides over the bloodstain. 
INT. RAMCHARGER/EXT. PHARMACY - DAY 
TRAVELING POINT OF VIEW A small-town main street. We are driving past a pharmacy. Chigurh, looking. He parks. He takes a scissors from the Wal-Mart bag and a box of cotton. He opens the box and cuts a little disc out of the cardboard. He takes a new shirt out of the bag and begins to cut through one sleeve. 
EXT. PHARMACY - DAY 
SHOOTING PAST A PARKED CAR Chigurh limps toward us. He holds a coat hanger bent straight with the balled-up shirtsleeve hooked at one end. Chigurh arrives, looks up and down the street. He unscrews the gas cap, feeds the coat hanger in to soak the shirt, pulls it back out. He tapes the cardboard disc over the open gas tank. He unhooks the wet shirtsleeve and jams it up over the disk. He lights it and exits. 
INSIDE THE PHARMACY - DAY A beat pulling Chigurh limping up the aisle, and then the car explodes out front. The plate glass storefront blows in. The few people inside rush out; Chigurh doesn't react. The pharmacy counter in back is deserted. Chigurh lifts a hinged piece of counter to enter and starts looking through the stock. He pulls out a packet of syringes, Hydrocodone tablets, penicillin. 
INT. SMALL TOWN MOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Chigurh dumps the pharmaceuticals into the bathroom sink. In the room outside he sits on the bed and takes off his boots. He unknots the towel from around his leg and stands and unbuttons his pants and starts cutting from the crotch down with a heavy scissors. One thigh is a mess of clotted blood and torn fabric. 
INT. MOTEL BATHROOM - DAY 
BATH Chigurh lowers himself into bath water that quickly turns pink. He laves water over his bloody thigh. There is a dark red hole, one half inch across, pulsing blood into the bath water Torn pieces of fabric from his pants are embedded in the bleeding skin. 
DRIVER Oh. One of the tiedowns worked lose. Bell whips the tarp back to expose eight corpses wrapped blue sheeting bound with tape. 
BELL How many did you leave with? The driver is still smiling. 
DRIVER I ain't lost none of 'em, Sheriff. 
BELL Couldn't you all of took a van out there? 
DRIVER Didn't have no van with four-wheel drive. Sheriff Bell pulls the tarp down and ties it. The driver watches without helping. 
DRIVER ...You going to write me up for improperly secured load? Sheriff Bell cinches the knot tight. 
BELL You get your ass out of here. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
Moss, in bed, stirs at an off screen voice: 
VOICE I'm guessin'... this is not the future you pictured for yourself when you first clapped eyes on that money. Moss blearily focuses on: A fancy crocodile boot. His look rises from the boot, crossed on his visitor's knee, up to the man's face. Carson Wells smiles at him from the bedside chair. 
WELLS ...Don't worry. I'm not the man that's after you. 
MOSS I know, I've seen him. Sort of. Wells is surprised. 
WELLS You've seen him. And you're not dead. He nods, impressed. 
WELLS ...But that won't last. 
MOSS What is he supposed to be, the ultimate bad-ass? 
WELLS I don't think that's how I would describe him. 
MOSS How would you describe him? 
WELLS I guess I'd say... that he doesn't have a sense of humor. His name is Chigurh. 
MOSS Sugar? 
WELLS Chigurh. Anton Chigurh. You know how he found you? 
MOSS I know how he found me. 
WELLS It's called a transponder. 
MOSS I know what it is. He won't find me again. 
WELLS Not that way. 
MOSS Not any way. 
WELLS Took me about three hours. 
MOSS I been immobile. 
WELLS No. You don't understand. Wells sits back and studies Moss. 
WELLS ...What do you do? 
MOSS I'm retired. 
WELLS What did you do? 
MOSS I'm a welder. 
CARLA JEAN No I ain't. 
BELL Nothin'? 
CARLA JEAN Not word one. 
BELL Would you tell me if you had? 
CARLA JEAN Well, I don't know. He don't need any trouble from you. 
BELL It's not me he's in trouble with. 
CARLA JEAN Who's he in trouble with then? 
BELL Some pretty bad people. 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn can take care of hisself. 
BELL These people will kill him, Carla Jean. They won't quit. 
CARLA JEAN He won't neither. He never has. 
BELL I wish I could say that was in his favor. But I have to say I don't think it is. 
CARLA JEAN He can take all comers. Bell looks at her. After a beat: 
BELL You know Charlie Walser? Has the place east of Sanderson? She shakes her head, shrugs. 
BELL ...Well you know how they used to slaughter beeves, hit 'em with a maul right here to stun 'em... Indicates between his own eyes. 
BELL ...and then truss 'em up and slit their throats? Well here Charlie has one trussed up and all set to drain him and the beef comes to. It starts thrashing around, six hundred pounds of very pissed-off livestock if you'll pardon my... Charlie grabs his gun there to shoot the damn thing in the head but what with the swingin' and twistin' it's a glance-shot and ricochets around and comes back hits Charlie in the shoulder. You go see Charlie, he still can't reach up with his right hand for his hat... Point bein', even in the contest between man and cow the issue is not certain. He takes a sip of coffee, leaving room for Carla Jean to argue if inclined. She does not. Sheriff Bell hands a card across. 
BELL ...When Llewelyn calls, just tell him I can make him safe. She takes the card. Sheriff Bell sips. 
BELL ...Course, they slaughter beeves different now. Use a air gun. Shoots out a rod, about this far into the brain... He holds thumb and forefinger a couple inches apart. 
BELL ...Sucks back in. Animal never knows what hit him. Another beat. Carla Jean stares at him. 
CARLA JEAN Why you tellin' me that, Sheriff? 
BELL I don't know. My mind wanders. 
EXT. RIO GRANDE BRIDGE - AFTERNOON 
Late Day. Carson Wells grabs a light pole stanchion to hoist himself onto the guardrail. He stands atop it, eyeing the chain-link fence across the walkway. He climbs down and crosses to the fence and looks down: The brown, sluggish water of the Rio Grande. 
LOOKING DOWN THE WALKWAY Carson Wells enters frame and recedes down the walkway. When he draws even with the next stanchion he looks down through the fence: 
Cane on the riverbank, and one gnarled tree. 
INT. HOTEL EAGLE LOBBY - NIGHT 
Twilight. Carson Wells enters the hotel and crosses the lobby. 
INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT 
Carson Wells appears around the corner and we pull him as he mounts the stairs. When he is about halfway up a figure -- focus does not hold him -- rounds the corner behind and silently follows, holding a fat-barreled shotgun loosely at his side. After a few steps Carson Wells stops, frowning, cued by we don't know what. Focus drops back as he turns. Chigurh raises the shotgun. 
CHIGURH Hello Carson. Let's go to your room. 
2ND HOTEL EAGLE ROOM - NIGHT Chigurh sits into a chair drawn up to face the armchair where Carson Wells sits. 
WELLS We don't have to do this. I'm a daytrader. I could just go home. 
CLERK No sir, it's unusual. 
EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY 
We are looking across the Rio Grande. Moss appears over the near edge of the river bank, newly clothed, and holding the document case. As he reaches the top of the bank he frowns and twists his neck, responding to an irritation. He feels around with his free hand inside the back of the shirt collar. A sharp yank. His hand comes away with a small tag. 
INT. GREYHOUND STATION - DEL RIO - DAY 
The document case is resting on a small foreground counter. Moss is at a pay phone, one hand holding the phone to his ear, the other resting on the case. The voice on the phone is old, female, and querulous: 
VOICE She don't want to talk to you. 
MOSS Yes she does. Put her on. 
VOICE Do you know what time it is? 
MOSS I don't care what time it is. Don't you hang up this phone. 
VOICE I told her what was going to happen, didn't I. Chapter and verse. I said: This is what will come to pass. And now it has come to pass -- Scuffing sounds, a sharp "Mama!", and then, into the phone: 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn? 
MOSS Hey. 
CARLA JEAN What should I do? 
MOSS You know what's goin' on? 
CARLA JEAN I don't know, I had the sheriff here from Terrell County -- 
MOSS What did you tell him? 
CARLA JEAN What did I know to tell him. You're hurt, ain't you? 
MOSS What makes you say that? 
CARLA JEAN I can hear it in your voice. 
MOTHER 
(DISTANT) There is falseness in his voice! 
MOSS Meet me at the Heart of Texas motel in El Paso. I'm gonna give you the money and put you on a plane. 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn, I ain't gonna leave you in the lurch. 
MOSS No. This works better. With you gone and I don't have the money, he can't touch me. But I can sure touch him. After I find him I'll come and join you. 
CARLA JEAN Find who? What am I supposed to do with Mother? 
MOSS She'll be all right. 
CARLA JEAN She'll be all right? 
MOTHER 
(DISTANT) Be all right! I've got the cancer! 
MOSS I don't think anybody'll bother her. 
OFFICE HALLWAY - DAY 
A LOCK CYLINDER It blows in. The hole shows a brightly lit cinderblock wall behind. The door swings open and the air tank is swung in and deposited on carpet. Wider: Chigurh enters the carpeted hallway from the cinderblock stairwell, holding the tricked-out shotgun. The hallway is white wallboard, doors opening off it at long intervals. Chigurh stands still and listens. Nothing but the hum of ventilation. 
As Carla Jean goes to the station a man emerges from a car pulled up behind. He is a well-dressed Mexican of early middle age. 
MEXICAN Do you need help with the bags, madam? 
MOTHER Well thank god there's one gentleman left in West Texas. Yes thank you. I am old and I am not well. 
MEXICAN Which bus are you taking? 
MOTHER We're going to El Paso, don't ask me why. Discombobulated by a no-account son-in-law. Thank you. You don't often see a Mexican in a suit. 
MEXICAN You go to El Paso? I know it. Where are you staying? 
INT. BUS STATION - DAY 
Carla Jean is at a phone booth. After a short wait, a pickup and a filtered: 
SHERIFF BELL Carla Jean, how are you. 
CARLA JEAN Sheriff, was that a true story about Charlie Walser? 
BELL Who's Charlie Walser. Oh! Well, I, uh... True story? I couldn't swear to ever detail but... it's certainly true that it is a story. 
CARLA JEAN Yeah, right. Sheriff, can you give me your word on somethin'? 
SHERIFF BELL'S OFFICE - DAY We intercut Sheriff Bell in his office. 
BELL Yes ma'am? 
CARLA JEAN If I tell you where Llewelyn's headed, you promise it'll be just you goes and talks with him -- you and nobody else? 
BELL Yes ma'am, I do. 
CARLA JEAN Llewelyn would never ask for help. He never thinks he needs any. 
BELL Carla Jean, I will not harm your man. And he needs help, whether he knows it or not. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
CHIGURH A driving point-of-view approaching Chigurh, who leans against his Ramcharger, its hood up, stopped on the shoulder on the opposite side of the road. Reverse shows a man in an El Camino. Chickens in stacked cages squawk and flutter in the bed. The man slows and rolls his window down to lean out. 
MAN What's the problem there, neighbor. 
MINUTES LATER The man has pulled his vehicle over nose-to-nose with Chigurh's. He is rummaging in the car behind the seat. His voice comes out muffled: 
MAN Yeah, that'll suck some power. Over time. 
CHIGURH You from around here? The man emerges with jumper cables. 
MAN Alpine. Born 'n bred. Here ya go. He hands one pair of leads to Chigurh. 
CHIGURH What airport would you use. 
MAN Huh? Airport or airstrip? 
CHIGURH Airport. 
MAN Well -- where ya goin'? 
CHIGURH I don't know. 
MAN Just lightin' out for the territories, huh. Brother, I been there... Well... He takes off his hat and draws a sleeve across his brow, thinking. 
MAN ...There's airstrips. He turns with his pair of leads to clamp them onto his battery. On his back: 
Sheriff Bell jogs toward the crawling man, one hand on his holstered gun. Behind the man on the veranda is his abandoned machine pistol. He is a Mexican in a guyabera. Sheriff Bell yells at a scared face in a cracked door: 
BELL Call police. He is still jogging. A glance to the side: Rough point-of-view of a woman's body, belly-down at the lip of the pool, head and upper torso in the water. Rough point-of-view forward: an open room door. Booted feet stick out. Sheriff Bell arrives. Moss is face-up, mostly inside the room. The new gun bag is next to him. The gun is in hand. He is still. Voices. Sheriff Bell glances off. 
BELL ...Call your local law enforcement. I'm not on their radio. 
EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT 
Night. The entrance is blocked by police vehicles. 
People stand around in knots. Sheriff Bell is talking to the local sheriff. A door slam attracts his look. 
Carla Jean has gotten out of the far side of a cab. On the near side the driver is leaning in to help her mother out. After a couple of rocking attempts she has enough inertia to come to her feet outside the vehicle. Carla Jean is advancing slowly toward Sheriff Bell, taking in the scene. Sheriff Bell steps toward her. Her eyes track his hand as he raises it to his hat. He takes it off. 
BELL Carla Jean... 
CARLA JEAN No. 
INT. HOSPITAL/MORGUE - NIGHT 
Looking down a long corridor flanked by a wall of stainless steel drawers. At the far end stands Bell, hat in hand, staring down into an open drawer just in front of him. A long beat. 
EXT. HOSPITAL / MORGUE - NIGHT 
The local sheriff, Roscoe Giddins, stands smoking under the port cochere in front of the hospital. Sheriff Bell emerges from the building. A long beat. 
BELL I don't know who she is. He puts his hat back on. 
ROSCOE I thought maybe she was with your boy there. 
BELL No ID in her room? 
ROSCOE Not hardly nothin' in her room. And that establishment was no stickler on registration. Well... 
The two men start walking. 
ROSCOE ...County'll bury her. Here Lies Female, Unknown. Her Number Was Up. A walking beat. 
ROSCOE ...Buy you a cup of coffee before you drive home? 
COFFEE SHOP - EL PASO - NIGHT Roscoe and Sheriff Bell face each other over coffee. 
BELL No money in his room there? 
ROSCOE Couple hundred on his person. Those hombres would've taken the stash. 
BELL I suppose. Though they was leavin' in a hurry. 
ROSCOE It's all the goddamned money, Ed Tom. The money and the drugs. It's just goddamned beyond everything. What is it mean? What is it leading to? 
BELL Yes. 
ROSCOE If you'd a told me twenty years ago I'd see children walkin' the streets of our Texas towns with green hair and bones in their noses I just flat out wouldn't of believed you. 
BELL Signs and wonders. But I think once you stop hearin' sir and madam the rest is soon to follow. 
ROSCOE It's the tide. It's the dismal tide. It is not the one thing. 
BELL Not the one thing. I used to think I could at least some way put things right. I don't feel that way no more. A beat. 
BELL ...I don't know what I do feel like. 
ROSCOE Try "old" on for size. 
INT. MAIN ROOM 
Sheriff Bell emerges from the bathroom. He sits heavily onto the bed. He looks around, not for anything in particular. His look catches on something low, just in front of him: 
A ventilation duct near the baseboard. Its opening is exposed; its grille lies on the floor before it. 
Sheriff Bell stares. At length he leans forward. He nudges the grille aside. On the floor, a couple of screws. A coin. 
EXT. WEST TEXAS CABIN - DAY 
A CAT Licking itself on a plank floor, stiffened leg pointing out. It suddenly stops and looks up, ears perked. A frozen beat, and then it bolts. The camera booms up to frame the barren west Texas landscape outside the window of this isolated cabin. A pickup truck is approaching, trailing dust. The cat reenters frame outside, running across the rutted gravel in front of the house as the pickup slows. 
INT. WEST TEXAS CABIN - KITCHEN - DAY 
Ellis, an old man in a wheelchair, has one clouded eye. 
ELLIS Min back! Sheriff Bell enters. 
BELL How'd you know I was here. 
ELLIS Who else'd be in your truck. 
BELL You heard it? 
ELLIS How's that? 
BELL You heard my -- you havin' fun with me? 
ELLIS What give you that idea. I seen one of the cats heard it. 
BELL But -- how'd you know it was mine? 
ELLIS I deduced it. Once you walked in. Sheriff Bell stares at him. 
BELL How many a those things you got now? 
ELLIS Cats? Several. Wal. Depends what you mean by got. Some are half-wild, and some are just outlaws. 
BELL How you been, Ellis? 
ELLIS You lookin' at it. I got to say you look older. 
BELL I am older. 
ELLIS Got a letter from your wife. She writes pretty regular, tells me the family news. 
BELL Didn't know there was any. 
ELLIS She just told me you was quittin'. Sit down. Sheriff Bell lifts an electric percolator off the counter. 
BELL Want a cup? 
ELLIS 'Predate it. 
BELL How fresh is this coffee? 
ELLIS I generally make a fresh pot ever week even if there's some left over. Sheriff Bell pours some. 
BELL That man that shot you died in prison. 
ELLIS In Angola. Yeah. 
BELL What would you a done if he'd been released? 
CARLA JEAN I knew this wasn't done with. Chigurh sits at the far end of the room in the late-afternoon shadows. 
CHIGURH No. 
CARLA JEAN I ain't got the money. 
CHIGURH No. 
CARLA JEAN What little I had is long gone and they's bill aplenty to pay yet. I buried my mother today. I ain't paid for that neither. 
CHIGURH I wouldn't worry about it. 
CARLA JEAN ...I need to sit down. Chigurh nods at the bed and Carla Jean sits down, hugging her hat and veil. 
CARLA JEAN ...You got no cause to hurt me. 
CHIGURH No. But I gave my word. 
CARLA JEAN You gave your word? 
CHIGURH To your husband. 
CARLA JEAN That don't make sense. You gave your word to my husband to kill me? 
CHIGURH Your husband had the opportunity to remove you from harm's way. Instead, he used you to try to save himself. 
CARLA JEAN Not like that. Not like you say. 
CHIGURH I don't say anything. Except it was foreseen. A beat. 
CARLA JEAN I knowed you was crazy when I saw you settin' there. I knowed exactly what was in store for me. 
CHIGURH Yes. Things fall into place. 
EXT. HOUSE 
Minutes later. A beat. The front door swings open and Chigurh emerges. He pauses with one hand on the jamb and looks at the sole of each boot in turn. He goes to the pickup in the driveway. 
INT. PICKUP/EXT. INTERSECTION - A MINUTE LATER 
He is driving. His point-of-view: coming upon an empty intersection, his light green. Back to Chigurh. He just starts to turn his head to the right. A huge crash. 
EXT. INTERSECTION 
Chigurh's pickup has been T-boned by an old crate of a pickup. Both vehicles slide to a halt amid broken glass in the middle of the intersection. The windshield of the truck that ran the light is mostly gone. The driver is draped dead on the wheel. After a beat the door of Chigurh's truck is pushed open. He staggers out, heavily favoring one leg where the jeans are shredded and bloody at the thigh. One arm is also bloody and hangs limp. Blood runs down his face from a scalp wound. He staggers to a lawn and sits. He looks up. Two teenage boys have come out of somewhere. They goggle at him. 
BOY 1 Mister there's a bone stickin' out of your arm. 
CHIGURH I'm all right. Let me just sit here a minute. 
BOY 2 There's an ambulance comin. Man over yonder went to call. 
CHIGURH All right. 
BOY 1 Are you all right? You got a bone stickin' out of your arm. 
CHIGURH What will you take for that shirt? The two boys look at each other. They look back. 
BOY 2 What shirt? 
CHIGURH Any damn shirt. I need something to wrap around my head and I need a sling for this arm. Boy 2 unbuttons his shirt. 
BOY 2 Hell mister, I'll give you my shirt. 
