PARANORMAN 
Written by 
Christopher Butler 
1 INT. RESEARCH LABORATORY - NIGHT 1 
An attractive FEMALE SCIENTIST in a gore-spattered lab coat moves fearfully along a wall, passing benches strewn with broken lab equipment. Her ample bosom heaves as she PANTS nervously, mascara-rimmed eyes darting to and fro. Glass SMASHES on the floor nearby and MELODRAMATIC MUSIC swells. The woman backs into a shadow, not noticing a pair of dead eyes catching the moonlight behind her. The music climbs to a frenzy as something GROANS horribly into the woman's ear. She spins around on her stiletto heels as a rotted face looms out of the darkness, drooling through broken teeth, and lunges at her neck. 
ZOMBIE Brains! CLOSE ON the woman as she raises her hands and SCREAMS. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Eleven year-old NORMAN BABCOCK sits on the floor watching TV. He has large piercing eyes and a messy shock of hair. The movie scene we just witnessed continues off- screen with the sound of bloodcurdling SCREAMS. Behind him sitting upon a sofa is GRANDMA BABCOCK, a plump old lady squinting through thick glasses. 
GRANDMA BABCOCK What's happening now? 
NORMAN The zombie is eating her head, Grandma. 
GRANDMA BABCOCK That's not very nice. What's he doing that for? 
NORMAN Because he's a zombie. That's what they do. 
GRANDMA BABCOCK Well he's going to ruin his dinner. I'm sure if they just bothered to sit down and talk it through it'd be a different story. Norman CHUCKLES, as if the idea is absurd, then winces as he hears his father shout from the kitchen. ParaNorman 2. 
2 CONTINUED: 2 
PERRY BABCOCK (O.S.) Norman! Didn't I tell you to take out the garbage? 
NORMAN Coming, Dad! 
GRANDMA BABCOCK Tell him to turn up the thermostat too, will ya? My feet are like ice. Norman nods to her and shuffles over to the kitchen door. 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 
Norman's mother, SANDRA BABCOCK, is emptying the dishwasher. She is in her late thirties, and wears `mom' clothes that do no favors for her figure. His father, PERRY BABCOCK, is older, with a neatly-trimmed beard trying hard to delineate chin from neck. He stands on a chair, decked out in tool belt and safety goggles, even though he's only changing a light bulb in a ceiling fixture. Sandra smiles at her son as he makes his way silently to an overstuffed trash can as tall as he is. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Hi. Whatcha watching in there? 
NORMAN Sex and violence. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Oh. That's nice. Perry glares over as Norman wrestles with the garbage. 
PERRY BABCOCK Can't you be like other kids your age and pitch a tent in the yard, or have a healthy interest in carpentry? 
SANDRA BABCOCK Perry... 
3 CONTINUED: (3) 3 
PERRY BABCOCK Stop indulging him! I'm nothing if I'm not liberal, but that limp- wristed, hippie garbage needs to be nipped in the bud! Norman SIGHS and steps between his parents as they argue. He mutely heads out of the room. 
EXT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS 
The argument in the kitchen continues, slightly muted. 
PERRY BABCOCK (O.S.) This behavior might be okay with your side of the family, but I'm not putting up with it anymore! Not me! 
SANDRA BABCOCK (O.S.) Oh, not this again! PAN UP to find a light go on in Norman's bedroom window. 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, NORMAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Norman sits on his bed, using a couple of zombie action figures to act out his parents' ongoing "discussion" which carries upstairs. Norman gets up off the bed and approaches the door. 
PERRY BABCOCK This isn't the West Coast, Sandra; people talk! They do! 
SANDRA BABCOCK (O.S.) He's just sensitive, Perry. 
PERRY BABCOCK (O.S.) Oh please, "sensitive" is writing poetry and being lousy at team sports... not this! I won't have him turn out like that uncle of yours! If that crazy old tramp has been around here putting ideas in Norman's head... 
SANDRA BABCOCK (O.S.) Perry, no one's had anything to do with Uncle Prenderghast in years! I bet he doesn't even know what Norman looks like! Norman quietly closes the door, and the room goes black. ParaNorman 6. 
6 INT. MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, STUDY - NIGHT 6 
CLOSE ON a faded photograph of Norman, held in the grimy hand of MR PRENDERGHAST. He stands over a dusty desk scattered with pictures of Norman, Sandra and older family members. He is in a dark study; a wall-to-wall trove of curious miscellanea and dumpster-dived junk. 
MR PRENDERGHAST Not much time, not much time... He pulls an old leather-bound book out from the mess, and traces a finger over a woodcut illustration on its cover; an ethereal woman lying beneath a cluster of stars. Wincing with pain, the man drops the book and clutches at his chest, COUGHING and GASPING horribly. CAMERA PANS to a wall covered in countless photographs, newspaper clippings and scrawled occult markings. It is a shrine of sorts; a madman's recondite genealogy project, and at its center is a photograph of Norman, posing with his family on vacation. ZOOM IN to the photograph, hurtling past the Babcocks and through dense trees further and further into a dark forest. 
TITLE: PARANORMAN 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, NORMAN'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Norman opens bleary eyes, turns off his zombie hand alarm clock, and slides out of bed. 
8 INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - MORNING 8 
Dressed for school, Norman pauses at the front door and turns to look at the sofa in the living room. He waves happily, and Grandma smiles back. Courtney passes him as she comes down the stairs in the opposite direction. She also stops to look at the sofa, but to her eyes it is empty. She sneers contemptuously. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - MORNING 
Norman ambles past houses and lawns spotted with small- town America detritus; cheap plastic lawn furniture, peeling-paint fences and cookie-cutter topiary. Here the quaint colonial buildings are mostly in disrepair, their picket fences rotten or daubed in graffiti. ParaNorman 7. 
9 CONTINUED: 9 Norman is watched dubiously by the occasional passer-by as he shouts amiable greetings to people who simply aren't there. 
NORMAN Good morning! Hey Bruce! How's it goin'? Not much. I'm kind of late for school. I need to go. Hi, nice to see you guys. Good morning. Sorry I gotta run. Excuse me. Pardon me. See ya. At one street corner, Norman bends over a gutter. He is watched curiously by a man retrieving his morning paper across the other side of the street. MAN'S POV - Norman crouches over the flattened remains of raccoon road kill. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Hey there little buddy! C'mere! He realizes he is being stared at and slowly turns to face the onlooker, then hurries away. Though no one else sees them, to Norman's eyes, a whole host of ghosts are meandering through the streets. 
ALVIN (CONT'D) Hey! Hey! Norman! Alvin points to a fly that has landed on the locker beside him. He swats it flat with his hand. 
ALVIN (CONT'D) Talk to that. The kids around Alvin burst into LAUGHTER. 
ALVIN (CONT'D) That is so Alvin! The bullies strut away, content in the psychological damage they've managed to inflict. 
PUG Loser! 
ALVIN That was good, right guys? Norman mutters as they leave, but not loud enough so as anyone might hear. 
NORMAN Flies don't talk. Across the hall, Neil continues to watch with sympathy, but he is already being hurried along by his friend SALMA, a nerdy Indian kid with braces. 
SALMA Neil, come on. Let's go. 
INT. SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - DAY 
Amidst stacked bleachers, foam mats and stray dodge balls, a crudely constructed stage fills one end of the gymnasium. Mediocre art class scenery represents a colonial town, complete with plywood hills, chapel and crescent moon dangling perilously from a basketball hoop. In a director's chair far too small for the job is MRS HENSCHER, an imposing woman with spectacles and beret who looks like she smells of too-much perfume. At the front of the stage wearing a pilgrim hat and carrying a large scroll, is NORMAN. He is surrounded by kids whose attempts at home made period costume leave a lot to be desired. ParaNorman 11. 
14 CONTINUED: 14 
MRS HENSCHER You stink of illiteracy! 
(A BEAT) Pilgrims? The Mayflower? Don't any of you know anything about the history of this town? Mrs Henscher tries her best to remain unfazed. 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) Puritans were strict and devout settlers, who came here to build a home, a place without sin. What is it now Salma? Salma is holding her hand up. She looks like the Wicked Witch of the West. Even beneath green makeup and plastic warty nose, it is clear she is not best pleased. 
SALMA Why is the witch always a hideous old crone with a pointy hat and a broomstick? I don't believe it's historically accurate, Mrs Henscher! Mrs Henscher's knuckles clench white around her script. She attempts an understanding smile, in the same way a shark might. 
MRS HENSCHER It's not supposed to be. It's supposed to sell postcards and key chains. 
(CLAPS HANDS) So let's try it again. Top of page six, Norman. Norman skips ahead on his scroll. 
NORMAN The founding fathers of Blithe Hollow discovered an evil witch amongst them... 
MRS HENSCHER No no, Norman, with gusto! Like this! Waving her arms theatrically, she bellows Norman's lines, milking every syllable for effect. 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) They put her on trial and hanged her! 
(MORE) ParaNorman 12. 
14 CONTINUED: (2) 14 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) But the vengeful witch cursed her accusers, seven of them in all, to die a horrible and gruesome death, and rise from their graves as the living dead; their souls doomed to an eternity of damnation! 
(A BEAT) Now I want you to try that again, but with conviction! My reputation is at stake here, and I won't have this turn out like that wretched Kabuki debacle of oh-nine! As she launches into her lecture, Norman notices a change in the room. The lights dim, the wind outside picks up, and indistinct shapes flicker at the corners of his eyes. Norman glances around at the other kids on the stage, to see if they are seeing what he is seeing. For a split second the children are replaced with faded figures in real Puritan dress. Seven solemn figures. As he turns around nervously, Norman sees the suggestion of another place fizzing in and out of the shadows... 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) Norman! Are you listening to me, boy? Norman is brought back to the real world with a start, and nods timidly from behind his scroll. 
NORMAN Sorry, Mrs Henscher. 
THE DEAD ARE COMING! He continues running directly off the edge of the stage and lands on the floor with a THUMP. For a moment no one knows quite how to react. Mrs Henscher quizzically checks her script. Norman's eyes focus and he sees everyone standing around him, staring. Sandra pushes through the crowd. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Norman! 
MITCH Did he say the dead are coming? 
PERRY BABCOCK 
(NERVOUS LAUGHING) No, no, no! 
NORMAN 
YES! Everyone jumps as Norman abruptly sits up, eyes wild. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) The tree told me! ParaNorman 24. 
32 CONTINUED: 32 Perry's face drains of color while the other parents MURMUR and MUTTER, crowd speak for "what a weirdo". Norman sees their expressions of disgust and suspicion. Worst of all, peering around parents' legs with a look of shock and fear is Neil. Norman catches his eye a moment, and Neil looks down at the ground. 
INT. STATION WAGON - LATER 
Barely keeping his fury in check, Perry drives home, Norman sitting despondently in the back seat. 
PERRY BABCOCK This is where it stops! It's one thing being a mental case in front of your family, but not the whole freaking town! There's not gonna be any more talking to ghosts, or grandmas, or, or... what is it now? 
SANDRA BABCOCK I think it's trees. 
PERRY BABCOCK You're grounded! You hear me? Perry pulls the car up in the Babcock's drive and gruffly climbs out of the car. 
NORMAN This is ridiculous. I wish everyone could see what I see! I didn't ask to be born this way! Perry mutters as he slams his door shut. 
PERRY BABCOCK Funny, neither did we. Norman catches the remark and feels it hard in his gut. His mother hears it too, and leans over her seat with a look of sympathy. A beat as she sees the pain in her son's face. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Y'know, sometimes people say things that seem mean, but they do it because they're afraid. 
NORMAN He's my dad. He shouldn't be afraid of me. ParaNorman 25. 
33 CONTINUED: 33 Sandra's eyes are filled with sorrow. 
SANDRA BABCOCK He's not afraid of you. He's afraid for you. Sadly, Norman climbs out of the car. 
EXT. SCHOOL - AFTERNOON 
Ominous clouds roll long shadows over the school building. Norman stands at the bottom of the school steps, trying to prepare himself for what he knows is going to be a bad day. He steels himself, and SIGHS. 
35A 35A 
INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - MORNING 
Norman walks the familiar gauntlet of school kids, only this time the abuse is tenfold. 
NORMAN 
I... I... 
PRENDERGHAST GHOST Swear! 
NORMAN Y-you mean like the "f" word? 
PRENDERGHAST GHOST I mean promise! 
NORMAN Okay, okay, I promise... 
PRENDERGHAST GHOST That'll do! Mr Prenderghast's ghost begins to disappear, bubbling and melting at the edges like a burning photograph. 
NORMAN No! Mr Prenderghast, wait! Alvin, hearing only Norman's voice, gingerly peeks around the corner of his stall. 
PRENDERGHAST GHOST Sorry kid, I'm done here! I'm free! I'm finally free! 
NORMAN Wait! No, you can't leave now! Please! I don't understand. Mr Prenderghast hangs in the air a moment, face scrunched up as he awaits his release, CACKLING crazily. The ghost explodes into a million particles of light, blowing open the stall door and catapulting Alvin backwards across the room. The mirrors behind him crack and the light bulb shatters. From the floor, Alvin groggily looks up and sees Norman framed in the stall with the door hanging off its hinges. He reaches over and flushes the toilet. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Uh... yeah. You might want to give that a few minutes. He grabs his bag and runs out of the room. ParaNorman 29. 
40 INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY, LOCKERS - CONTINUOUS 40 
Norman sprints madly for the main doors, passing Neil and Salma who glance up from their lockers as he stumbles by. 
NEIL Norman? Alvin tears around the corner in pursuit, but Neil stands in his way, waving his arms indignantly. 
NEIL (CONT'D) Hey! What's the big deal? 
ALVIN Don't get your bra in a twist, fat boy, this has nothing to do with you! Keep out of my way! 
NEIL Or what? 
ALVIN Or I'll punch you in the boobs! 
NEIL I don't have boobs. These are pectorals! Alvin jabs him in the chest. 
NEIL (CONT'D) Ow! My boobs! Neil swiftly steps aside. Alvin reaches the door to see Norman disappearing along the path as fast as he can. Alvin YELLS after him. 
ALVIN You're dead, freakshow! Do you hear me? D-E-D! DEAD! You're gonna be so dead you're gonna have to talk to yourself when you're dead! 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - EARLY EVENING 
Wearing her fanciest dress, Sandra bustles out of the kitchen to the front door. 
PERRY BABCOCK I really don't think we should be leaving him. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Perry, you promised me a meal that someone else microwaved. ParaNorman 30. 
GRANDMA BABCOCK In a manner of speaking... 
NORMAN And you'd do it no matter what? 
GRANDMA BABCOCK Of course. 
NORMAN Even if it was something really scary... Grandma eyes him curiously. 
GRANDMA BABCOCK There's nothing wrong with being scared Norman, so long as you don't let it change who you are. Norman thinks this over, then smiles up at her again. She goes to rub his head affectionately, but her ghost hand just passes right through his spiky hair. She gives him a wink, and drifts away through the wall. He is still scared, but now determined too. He steels himself and grabs his jacket from his bed. 
INT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, COURTNEY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
The tiny room is crammed full of posters, pom-poms, plush toys and plastic trophies. Pretty much everything is pink. Courtney sits talking on her phone, cotton buds between her toes as her painted nails dry. ParaNorman 33. 
43 CONTINUED: 43 
COURTNEY So I said to her, "Girl, come back and talk to me when your basket toss gets twelve thousand hits on YouTube!" Yeah, no, I said that. (listens and nods) Yeah, I'm stuck on lame patrol. Tonight's gonna be a total yawn. From downstairs, a door SLAMS. Courtney frowns, puts her hand over the phone and shouts out. 
COURTNEY (CONT'D) Norman?! 
EXT. BABCOCK'S HOUSE, FRONT YARD - MOMENTS LATER 
Beneath a florid evening sky, the Babcock's drive is in darkness. Pedalling furiously, Norman rides his bike out of the shadows into the light of the street. 
COURTNEY (O.S.) You better not be sneaking out you little weirdo! 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - CONTINUOUS 
On a street corner two teenage girls approach Alvin and Pug, who have laid out a breakdancing mat and a beatbox and are doing their best to impress. Alvin imagines he is wowing the girls with his krumping, his ham-like limbs flying around and Pug hollering support, but in truth they watch in morbid fascination. A faint CLATTERING sound down the road grows louder. Norman suddenly THUNDERS past them on his bike, spinning Alvin on the spot and knocking him onto his butt. Show over, Alvin blunders to his feet, his eyes following Norman's trajectory up the dark road, and GROWLS. 
46 EXT. WOODED LANE, MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING 46 
Tall conifers rise up high on either side of the road, now little more than a dirt track. Norman pedals up the hill and swerves, skidding to a stop in the gravel. He climbs off the bike, eyes fixed on a ramshackle house partially hidden in the foliage, its porch door swinging and CREAKING eerily in the breeze. He cautiously advances past a crooked mailbox on which is written "PRENDERGHAST", and steps onto the wooden porch. ParaNorman 34. 
47 INT. MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 47 
The fading light of day spills across the floorboards and faded wallpaper of a long passage. 
NORMAN Hello? Mr Prenderghast? Motes of dust float around Norman as he moves slowly toward a door, slightly ajar, muttering to himself. He quietly makes his way past all manner of objects that epitomize the state of Mr Prenderghast's mind; a mannequin in a shopping cart, a pile of broken typewriters, a suspended bag of spoons, a closet full of identically soiled hobo suits, a Nordic track... 
INT. PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, STUDY - CONTINUOUS 
The study is filled with teetering piles of junk and old furniture draped over in dust sheets. A crucifix hangs over a metal cot with rumpled bedding. This is evidently where the old man lived his whole life. Starlight from a window picks out a macabre halo on a shape on the floor: Mr Prenderghast, dead where he fell, tightly clutching a leather-bound book. CLOSE ON Norman's face as he swallows nervously and steps closer to the body. He gingerly takes hold of the book and gives a gentle tug. It holds fast in the rigor mortis grasp. He tugs harder, shaking the book repeatedly, the corpse shaking with it. 
NORMAN Let go! Norman spends several strenuous moments dragging the body across the floorboards, Mr Prenderghast's head glancing off table legs and smacking repeatedly against the floorboards, as Norman tries to wrestle the book free. With a final yank the book pulls loose and, GASPING, Norman grips the book to his chest and runs to the door. 
EXT. WOODED LANE, MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE - SAME 
Norman careens through the door, leaps off the porch and sprints along the wooded lane up the hill, watched by Alvin, concealed behind some bushes. 
DEAD JUDGE 
STOP!... YOU... MUST... STOP! ParaNorman 38. 
50 CONTINUED: (4) 50 
ALVIN Norman? What are you doing? I think I peed my pants! Survival instincts finally kick in and Alvin makes a run for it, scrambling through the graves toward the gate. 
NORMAN Wait! Norman follows, leapfrogging over headstones. 
INT. NEIL'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Neil sits on the floor in front of a huge TV, remote control in hand, as the doorbell RINGS loudly from the hall. 
MITCH (O.S.) Neil! Will you get the door? 
NEIL I'm busy! 
MITCH (O.S.) Are you freeze-framing Mom's aerobics DVD again? ANGLE ON TV, with a still image of a Lycra-clad instructor bending over. Neil quickly turns it off. 
NEIL No! The doorbell RINGS again. 
MITCH (O.S.) Neil! Would it kill you to get off your butt and answer the door? 
I/E. NEIL'S DRIVEWAY, FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS 
COURTNEY I'm gonna kill them. She impatiently leans down to push open the mail slot. 
COURTNEY (CONT'D) I know you're in there! Slumber party's over, dorks! The door opens and she finds herself face to navel with Mitch, out of the shower with a towel around his waist. ParaNorman 39. 
53 CONTINUED: 53 
MITCH Um, can I help you? 
COURTNEY (under her breath) Hell yeah. Courtney catches herself and quickly affects a LAUGH. 
COURTNEY (CONT'D) Sorry to bug you so late, but does, erm... (checks page in hand) ...Neil live here? 
MITCH Yeah, he's my brother. 
COURTNEY Oh wow! That's great! Your brother and my brother are like best friends! I'm Courtney. She tries to regain her composure as Mitch turns away. 
MITCH Hey Neil! You come here a minute? There's a girl asking for you. Neil's face emerges dubiously from a room down the hall. Courtney flashes her widest fake grin and puts on a high pitched sing-song voice. 
COURTNEY Hey there! How ya doin'... little guy... 
NEIL Neil? 
COURTNEY Yeah, Neil. Do you know where Norman is? He kinda disappeared. 
ALVIN Dude, what are you doing? 
NORMAN (points to corpse) He told me to read from the book to stop the curse! I thought it was a spell or something, but... Norman narrows his eyes as he sees Mr Prenderghast's desk, still strewn with pictures and newspaper clippings. He hurries over and begins rummaging through the mess, scattering papers across the floor. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Come on! There has to be something... 
ALVIN I really need to get home! I've got like a seriously early curfew. 
(MORE) ParaNorman 42. 
56 CONTINUED: 56 
ALVIN (CONT'D) My mom gets really upset when I'm not... Something CLUNKS loudly from down the hall, sending Alvin into a desperate babbling panic. 
ALVIN (CONT'D) We gotta defend ourselves! We gotta shoot them in the head with like silver stakes or something! I'm way too awesome to get eaten! Norman, are you listening to me? You really have to do something! Norman uncovers a couple of faded photographs of the old graveyard. One is of the seven tombstones, the other is of the stone marker, which reads "HERE LIES BURIED THE 
SEVEN VICTIMS OF THE WITCH'S CURSE..." Beside the photos is a torn page from an old book. An engraving illustrates the seven members of the witch's trial, solemnly seated at a bench within the courthouse. 
NORMAN Seven victims... Frowning, Norman glances up and sees a page from an old book tacked to the wall. It is an illustration of a hideous old crone, cackling evilly. Another THUMP from down the hall. Norman looks again from the photographs in his hand to the image of the old witch. There's something he's not seeing... He looks at the pictures in front of him. Graves. Jurors. Witch. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Seven graves. 
(EYES WIDEN) The witch's grave! It wasn't there! He turns to Alvin. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) I was reading the book in the wrong place! Down the hallway, another loud THUMP. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Hide! ParaNorman 43. 
57 INT. MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 57 
CLOSE ON the door knob RATTLING furiously, then a CRACK as a mottled hand punches it right through the wood. A figure limps slowly into the hallway, dragging one crippled foot behind the other. It stops halfway along and tilts its head, as if listening, and emits a dire MOAN. More shapes appear behind it in the doorway and fan out along the hallway. 
INT. MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, STUDY - CONTINUOUS 
The boys tremble in their hiding places trying not to make a sound; Alvin crouched behind a stack of books and Norman lying underneath the bed. The footsteps grow louder as the zombies shuffle into the room. NORMAN'S POV - rotten legs step up to Mr Prenderghast's body, lying where he fell on the floorboards. Two withered feet suddenly step right up to the bed. Something drops onto the floor inches in front of Norman's face with an unpleasant SLAP. Norman's eyes bug out as he realizes it is a zombie's dislodged ear. A weltered arm reaches down to grope around for the body part, until Norman pushes the ear, as carefully as he can manage, back into the zombie's fingers. The hand retreats back out from under the bed. There is a loud SCREAM as Alvin, unable to contain himself any longer, jumps out from his hiding place and makes for the door. The corpses look up as he disappears down the hall, then stagger after him. Norman takes this chance to follow, but the Dead Judge blocks his exit. They both stand quite still, staring into each others' eyes. The corpse tilts its head, almost quizzically, and its eyes widen as it notices the book under his arm. Norman steps sideways to run past it, but the corpse does too. Both it and Norman step one way, then the other, and back again. Norman feigns one direction and quickly bolts in the other, past the corpse and out the door. 
INT. MR PRENDERGHAST'S HOUSE, HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 
Alvin reaches the front door and throws it open. Directly in front of him is another zombie on the doorstep, opening a mouth full of jagged teeth. Alvin SCREAMS like a little girl, smacks it ineffectually with his spatula, and the door is abruptly SLAMMED in the zombie's face, a surprised and muffled GROAN coming from the other side. ParaNorman 44. 
59 CONTINUED: 59 Alvin, still screaming, looks down to see Norman beside him, leaning against the door. The Dead Judge leads the advance of zombies down the hall toward them. Norman hears his MOAN. Norman swings the door back open, the zombie on the other side moving with it, teeth firmly embedded in the wood. As it attempts to pry itself free, Norman grabs Alvin by the arm and they both dart onto the porch behind its back, headed for the road. 
NORMAN Come on! 
INT. MITCH'S VAN - SAME 
Mitch drives along dark roads. Neil sits behind him looking bemused while Courtney, in the front passenger seat, extols her life history. 
COURTNEY And she said I could totally consider a career in formation swimming. But I was like, "I wanna do something that helps people less fortunate than me", thank you very much, y'know, like the poor or people who are like dying or ugly or something, `cuz I really think that ecology and world peace are like totally important today. Do you use free weights? Your deltoids are huge. 
63 CONTINUED: 63 As if struck by the same blow, the rest of the corpse staggers backwards. Alvin and Norman run past him toward the van, bustling past Courtney and clambering inside. More corpses are emerging from the trees on either side of the road. She SCREAMS and leaps back into the van, as Mitch leaps into the driver's seat beside her. 
INT. MITCH'S VAN - CONTINUOUS 
MITCH Did you see that? 
COURTNEY That was insane! 
MITCH I know, right? I kicked that like a hundred yards! 
COURTNEY Norman, what just happened?! 
ALVIN Zombies! I swear, okay? We saw them burst out of their graves! For real! He realizes Mitch and Courtney are staring at him, and tries to disguise his raw panic with nonchalance. 
ALVIN (O.S.) (CONT'D) 
(TO COURTNEY) Just so you know, I totally saved his life, and I could totally save yours. 
COURTNEY (O.S.) Sorry, who are you? 
ALVIN (O.S.) I'm Alvin. I'm in his class. Norman, not so easily distracted from the problem at hand as the others, glances uneasily through the window. NORMAN'S POV - The zombies lurch arthritically toward the van, GROANING and GURGLING. 
NORMAN Uh, guys... maybe we should actually drive away now. 
MITCH Oh, right. ParaNorman 48. 
64 CONTINUED: 64 Mitch starts the engine with a YELL, just as the nearest zombie leers in through the window. 
65 EXT. WOODED ROAD - CONTINUOUS 65 
CLOSE ON the front wheel, spinning and SQUEALING. The van spits out a cloud of exhaust fumes as it accelerates away. A beat as the smoke clears. The soot-covered zombies SPLUTTER as they cough up what's left of their lungs. They turn from one to the other, awaiting direction from their leader. But the Dead Judge is nowhere to be seen. A zombie points down the winding road where the woods eventually thin out into leafy suburban drives. The ragged shape of the Judge is clinging to the back of the van, thrashing around and WAILING as it picks up speed. The zombies quietly watch until the van moves out of sight behind the trees, then turn their attention to the lights of the town center below them. They weigh up their options and, MOANING, shuffle toward civilization. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS - NIGHT 
Further down the hill, Sheriff Hooper is taking a break from ticketing borderline traffic violations by drinking a giant malt shake in a plastic cup. She leans against her parked motorcycle, squinting up at the unnatural clouds. 
SHERIFF HOOPER Pesky kids with their cell phones burning up the oh-zone, that's what this is! She finishes her shake and throws the non-recyclable cup into the bushes. Mitch's van shoots past at high speed in a cloud of dust. 
SHERIFF HOOPER (CONT'D) What the..? Hooper watches the van tear away, the dark shape of the Dead Judge visibly clinging to the back doors, his voluminous cape flapping out behind him like a windsock. 
EXT. WOODED ROAD, MITCH'S VAN - CONTINUOUS 
Unseen by the kids, the Dead Judge claws his way up the rear doors of the van by his ragged fingernails. ParaNorman 49. 
71 INT. MITCH'S VAN - CONTINUOUS 71 
Courtney lets out an infuriated GROWL. 
COURTNEY I just knew something like this was going to happen tonight! 
MITCH Oh my gosh! I'm gonna be sick! 
COURTNEY Oh, I broke a nail! As Alvin climbs out, he gingerly holds up the Judge's arm, as if it were a dead animal, and dangles it limply in front of his face. 
ALVIN Yeah! Alvin the zombie slayer! I got you... The hand suddenly bends back on itself, slaps him on the face, and as he SQUEALS it drops to the ground and skitters away into the shadows. Mitch sizes up what's left of his van, and bids a tearful farewell. 
MITCH 
(WHISPERS) Baby, I'm so sorry. You'll be alright. We're gonna get through this together. Courtney pouts moodily when she realizes the tender words aren't for her. Norman looks up at the sky. A thick bank of cloud looms over the town, and in its center is the unmistakable otherworldly face, ebbing in and out of visibility, and grinning horribly. 
NORMAN Uh oh. C'mon! 
NEIL Oh yeah! Neil HUMS his very own action movie score as he runs to follow Norman out of the parking lot. ParaNorman 57. 
91 CONTINUED: 91 
COURTNEY Perfect. Now the geeks are in charge. The kids make toward the parking lot exit. 
EXT. MAIN STREET ALLEYWAY - SOME TIME LATER 
The town center retains even less charm when the sun goes down, and its remaining denizens are now drunk, high or looking for trouble. Provided one requires alcohol, junk food or pharmaceuticals, it's the place to be. A ruddy-faced drunk, SLOB GUY, inserts a few coins in a vending machine at the end of an alley, and waits as the metal coil inside curls a candy bar toward the front of the machine. The man notices the approaching figures further down the back street and frowns. He turns back to the machine, waiting. The zombies draw closer, GROANING, and the man fidgets uncomfortably. The man begins WHIMPERING. The candy bar slowly shifts forward. The zombies are close enough to touch. The man YELLS and runs away, leaving the candy bar to drop to the machine's trough with a CLANG. A beat then, still SCREAMING, the man runs back to the machine, grabs his candy, then runs away again. The Undead emerge onto Main Street, and slow down as they take in their surroundings. VARIOUS ANGLES ON the garish town center nightlife intercut with CLOSE-UPS of the wide-eyed zombies. -Two teenage girls in mini-skirts walk along the curb. A pickup truck crawls by, driven by red necks who wolf- whistle and gesture rudely. The girls GIGGLE. -In the nearby "GOBBLER'S" parking lot, a huge woman sits in her vehicle cramming a burger into her mouth. As she bites down ketchup spatters across the inside of the windscreen like arterial spray. -A corpse stands agog before a billboard. The poster is for a line of "Lady Luck" lingerie and features a buxom woman in her underwear draped over a roulette wheel. The tagline is "FANCY YOUR CHANCES?" The corpse's one eye pops out of its socket and dangles by its optic nerve. -Outside the Bar Gento, LOUD MUSIC and raucous revelry blare out into the street. ParaNorman 58. 
93 CONTINUED: 93 -A group of loitering teens cluster in a group, some sitting upon a stolen shopping cart, others kicking a tin can from one to the other. One daubs misspelled naughty words on the wall beside them. Another is attempting to use his bare hands to rip open a parking meter. -Another corpse stands in the light of a store window, a bank of TVs showing all kinds of programs. Racing car explosions; scantily-clad singers gyrating in music videos; talking animals and Viagra commercials. QUICK CUTS OF ZOMBIE CLOSE-UPS as they all raise rotten fingers to their mouths and SCREAM. Slob Guy suddenly bursts out of the door of the Bar Gento, dragging a group of dubious drinkers. 
SLOB GUY See! I told you! Zombies! It's the witch's curse! Everyone in the street freezes in place, wide-eyed. Someone GASPS. 
SWEET GIRL Mama? 
RAPPER GUY What? A couple of the zombies exchange glances, waiting for the other shoe to drop. 
GUCCI LADY What should we do? Barely skipping a beat, the townsfolk shift seamlessly from shock and awe to bullish aggression. Crystal pulls a pump-action shotgun from somewhere about her person and scowls menacingly. 
CRYSTAL Kill them in the head! Within seconds, the seedy-looking townsfolk have armed themselves with pool cues, mops, toilet plungers and any other household implements that can be waved threateningly, and the mob advances on the group of quivering zombies. 
EXT. URBAN STREETS - CONTINUOUS 
The disembodied Judge's arm skitters along a secluded street, eventually coming upon the rest of the Dead Judge, sitting in the gutter trying to arrange and re- attach his body parts in the right places. ParaNorman 59. 
94 CONTINUED: 94 Having SNAPPED his head back onto his neck, the Judge scoops up his remaining arm and gets unsteadily to his feet. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - MOMENTS LATER 
NORMAN Hurry! This way! Norman leads the way, but stops dead as they run headlong into a scene of zombie invasion mayhem. Townsfolk fill the streets, SHOUTING and acting generally mob-like. One or two of them have even got hold of burning torches from somewhere. It's apocalyptic chaos. The fat woman from the Drive-Thru runs past SCREAMING, her face and T-shirt covered in blood-red ketchup. 
COURTNEY Oh, this is awful! The zombies are, like, eating everyone! Norman points beyond the bedlam to the dark shape of the Old Town Hall in the plaza. 
NORMAN C'mon! They skirt around the edge of Main Street, avoiding flying bottles and limbs as best they can. Following the noise, the Judge staggers along some way behind. He surveys the scene as he emerges, his featureless face doing a nevertheless effective job of expressing horrified shock. After a moment, he comes to his senses, and spies the kids in the distance. A look of resolve crosses his face, turning quickly to surprise as a SHOT rings out nearby. The Judge looks down to a large hole blown through his midriff. Framed within it is Crystal, several feet away, rifle smoking. He looks up again, weighs up his chances, then lets out a ROAR of retreat to his beleaguered companions before running off into the shadows. Those zombies who haven't already tried to run for cover manage to extricate themselves from the frenzy and follow the Judge's CRY, some of them breaking into a sprint. 
EXT. TOWN HALL PLAZA - NIGHT 
Sheriff Hooper looks around and sees an awful lot of armed people beginning to bay for blood, and she sees trouble on her hands. 
SLOB GUY Ain't room for no more zombies in this town! Standing behind him, Teddy agrees with a slack-jawed 
MOAN. 
TEDDY Yeah. 
INT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT 
Perry drives into town in silence, his nose bloodied and stuffed with tissues. Sandra sits beside him and Sheriff Hooper is in the back seat, scouring the streets. 
SHERIFF HOOPER Would've been a quiet night too, if it hadn't been for those meddling kids. Huh! As Perry and Sandra exchange uneasy glances, Hooper suddenly points through the windshield to the riot in progress on Main Street. 
SHERIFF HOOPER (CONT'D) Sweet baby jinkies! 
EXT. MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS 
Perry brakes hard just a few feet in front of the advancing mob, moving menacingly en masse in pursuit of the fleeing Undead. Hooper bustles out of the car, making a beeline for Deputy Dwayne. Crystal turns and fires into the street, taking out a lightbulb over a store sign. A dog somewhere in the shadows YELPS and runs away. ParaNorman 63. 
105 CONTINUED: 105 Sheriff Hooper is outraged, and snatches the gun out of Crystal's hand. 
SHERIFF HOOPER What do you think you're doing, firing at civilians? That is for the police to do! 
DEPUTY DWAYNE It's okay Sheriff, we've only been shooting at the dead ones! It's the living dead, come to take us all to Hell! We gotta stop them before they get away! 
EXT. TOWN HALL - MOMENTS LATER 
In the alley down the side of the old Town Hall, the zombies tiptoe through the shadows. They look slightly the worse for wear; some have lost limbs, others have large holes in them. One has a toilet plunger stuck on her head. The Dead Judge looks up at the sky. The turgid supernatural storm RUMBLES closer, pressing down upon the nearby rooftops. The Judge motions to the other zombies to hurry, and grabs hold of the Town Hall's side door. He rips it open, and furtively motions the zombies to file inside. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS 
SHERIFF HOOPER Move along now people, there isn't anything to see here! The townsfolk around her refuse to be allayed by this. Perry and Sandra have emerged dubiously out of their car and watch from the periphery, utterly bewildered. Mrs Henscher, newly arrived and wearing her avocado face mask like war paint, shakes her shotgun and points down the street. 
MRS HENSCHER I saw them! I saw them! The zombies are in the Town Hall! The information sweeps across the crowd like wildfire. Several faces turn to Henscher, who is pleased to have an engaged audience and hams it up shamelessly, coming on like Braveheart in curlers. ParaNorman 64. 
110 CONTINUED: 110 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war! The faces around her don't react; waiting patiently for a clearer translation. 
MRS HENSCHER (CONT'D) Let's rip `em apart! Mrs Henscher points the crowd toward the Town Hall. Despite Hooper's protests, the townsfolk are on lynch mob auto pilot and surge like a force of nature along the Main Street toward the Town Hall plaza. 
INT. TOWN HALL, ARCHIVES - LATER 
Dozens of books and cardboard boxes lie scattered across the floor. The glass cabinets around the room have been ransacked as the kids drag documents off shelves and rummage through binders. Norman sits on the floor flipping through sheet after sheet of records. Courtney wades through documents toward him, holding up a fist full of old rolled-up papers. 
COURTNEY We're not going to find it in here, Norman! This is useless! 
ALVIN Yeah, I know, and it's also really boring. 
COURTNEY I do too listen! And whatever it was you just said, it's not working! You think you're going to go out there and do your talking to the dead thing and this is all going to be okay? What are you going to do, ask the zombies not to eat you? 
NORMAN I should've known you wouldn't understand! No one ever does! 
COURTNEY Norman, you need to stop all this weird stuff and start living in the real world! 
NORMAN Everyone in the real world thinks I'm a freak! And you know what, maybe they're right, maybe I am a freak! But I never asked for your help... just go! Get out! Courtney, Mitch and Alvin back off a half step as Norman advances on them. 
MITCH Jeez, that was dramatic. Courtney shoots him a look as if she's about to fight back, then shakes her head and shoves her way through the door. She turns to go, snapping at the other kids behind her. 
COURTNEY C'mon! ParaNorman 67. 
114 CONTINUED: (2) 114 One by one, the kids turn and file out, but Neil still insists on remaining, folding his arms defiantly. 
NEIL I'm not going anywhere. You can't make me. Mitch shrugs and picks his brother up, scooping him under one arm and carrying him out the door. 
MITCH Dude, you're really heavy. 
NEIL I'm not speaking to you. You can't make me. Norman watches the doors shut behind them, and his anger begins to ebb. Alone in the archive room, he slumps to his knees feeling useless and frustrated. 
INT. TOWN HALL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
In the lobby, no one can hear him over the sounds of the mob. The kids have nervously approached the barricade at the front door, hoping to appeal to the figures outside. 
COURTNEY Um, excuse me? Hello? Unmistakably living hands and arms suddenly SMASH through the barricade, clawing into the Town Hall. The kids recoil from the windows, SCREAMING as they bat ineffectually at the grasping hands. 
EXT. TOWN HALL - CONTINUOUS 
Slob Guy reaches in through a gap in the broken woodwork, managing to grab a hold of something. 
SLOB GUY They're in there alright! I can feel its clammy flesh! 
INT. TOWN HALL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 
Neil SCREAMS as Slob Guy gropes at his chubby arm. 
117A INT. TOWN HALL ARCHIVES - CONTINUOUS 117A 
Norman notices his backpack on the floor in front of him, the book of fairy tales poking out. He picks it up and runs his hand absently over the embossed leather cover. ParaNorman 68. 
117A CONTINUED: 117A Something CLATTERS behind him, and Norman hears someone approaching. 
NORMAN Hello? He turns around to face his friend and finds himself staring up at a zombie, moving toward him along the dark aisle, pale moonlight shining off its exposed bones. Norman GASPS. He realizes zombies are converging on him from all directions, barring his way out through the door. The Dead Judge GROANS as he approaches. Norman backs away, clutching the book to his chest. Out of the corner of his eye Norman spots another doorway in the shadows of the wall behind him and moves toward it, calling out desperately. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Help! Somebody help me! 
INT. TOWN HALL STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS 
Norman runs up a tight stairwell leading to the roof of the building, the zombies just a few steps beneath him. 
NORMAN Once upon a time in a far-off land there lived a king and queen... in a magnificent castle... The horrible cloud face above him CACKLES monstrously, drowning out the story. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) Why won't you listen to me? Why are you doing this?! The face in the clouds turns inside out as a tongue of lightning spits out. It SMACKS into the book held in front of Norman's chest, lifts him up off his feet and throws him back onto the old timbers of the roof. The air is knocked out of Norman as, trailing smoke, he SMASHES through the wood into the fiery chasm of the building beneath. ParaNorman 71. 
125 CONTINUED: 125 CAMERA follows him as he plummets, SCREAMING, and is enveloped in thick black smoke. There is a loud THUD, and silence. 
INT. TOWN HALL, OLD COURTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS 
Norman lies on the floor, shifting painfully. With some effort he sits up, rubbing his head. The book in his hand is now a blackened cinder with a large smoldering hole gouged through the middle. Norman realizes he is no longer inside the burning building. Around him indistinct shapes begin to pool into clarity. He is in the courthouse, but three hundred years ago, and a trial is about to begin. A crowd of onlookers gather around a platform at the head of the room where officious-looking gentlemen in austere Puritan clothing stand around a table. Two dour men in black skull caps are seated, an empty chair between them. Norman moves unnoticed through the crowd toward the platform. The hubbub of the townsfolk dies down. The imposing figure of Judge Hopkins, tall and august, marches out of a side chamber, steps up onto the wooden dais and seats himself silently between his solemn peers. He glares down at Norman with cold, humorless eyes. 
JUDGE HOPKINS Agatha Prenderghast of his Majesty's Province of Massachusetts... As the Judge's voice continues, Norman sees played out against it a MONTAGE of the preceding court case. The notary stands up, waving a wad of testimonies. 
JUDGE HOPKINS (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...on this day you have been arraigned for the horrible crime of witchcraft... A pale woman fiddles nervously with the ribbon on her bonnet as she is questioned by the Judge. 
JUDGE HOPKINS (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...witnessed by those whose testimonies have been heard. A wiry woman with a pinched face gestures fearfully with her arms as she recounts her evidence. ParaNorman 72. 
126 CONTINUED: 126 
JUDGE HOPKINS (V.O.) (CONT'D) You have, by this court, been found guilty... 
NORMAN No! A young farmhand bows his head shamefully, as he adds further ammunition to the prosecution. 
JUDGE HOPKINS (V.O.) ...and it is passed on you, according to your grievous crimes... Another village woman SOBS into a handkerchief as she tells her story. QUICK CUTS of the accusers, one after the other, as the Judge finishes his verdict. The notary, the preacher, the townsfolk. All point at Norman. 
JUDGE HOPKINS (CONT'D) ...execution. Camera swings slowly around Norman to reveal AGGIE PRENDERGHAST, standing in chains right behind him. 
AGGIE No! Norman reacts with horror. The "witch" cowering next to him is no more than eleven years-old. Her long hair is unkempt and dirt on her face is streaked with tears from her eyes. Her manacles have been specially made to fit her tiny wrists, and weigh her to the floor. She SNIFFS, scared and confused. 
JUDGE HOPKINS Do you have anything to say for yourself? 
AGGIE I was only playing! 
JUDGE HOPKINS Aye, with fire! You were speaking with the dead! The crowd GASPS and MURMURS fearfully. 
JUDGE HOPKINS (CONT'D) I'll not risk damnation on these good people. The town Sheriff grabs Aggie by the shoulder. ParaNorman 73. 
126 CONTINUED: (2) 126 
JUDGE HOPKINS (CONT'D) You are to be taken to the place of execution where you will be hanged by the neck until you be dead... Norman shouts out but no one can hear or see him. 
NORMAN Wait! No! You can't do this! The grim-faced Sheriff moves toward Norman and Aggie. She backs away, tears flowing down her face. 
AGGIE I didn't do anything wrong! A terrible panic comes over her face. 
AGGIE (CONT'D) Stop! Leave me alone or I'll make you sorry! I'll make all of you sorry! Norman feels unsteady on his feet, the room seeming to spin around him. The faces of the townsfolk, pale and skull-like, swirl around and around, blurring together. In the center of it all, glowing like a bonfire, Aggie 
SCREAMS. The world turns black and Norman collapses in a faint. 
INT. TOWN HALL ARCHIVES - CONTINUOUS 
COURTNEY Mitch, if we die tonight, this might be the last chance I get to tell you how I feel. ParaNorman 76. 
128 CONTINUED: 128 
MITCH Uh, well, no. Unless we get brought back as zombies, and then technically you'll have longer. Courtney opens her mouth to continue, but her love train is thoroughly derailed by the nearby CRASH of breaking wood, and the archive door beside them CLATTERS to the ground. The cowering kids all watch in silent horror as several dark figures limp and shamble out of the smoke and make their way past them across the room. It's the zombies, and they're being led by Norman. 
COURTNEY Norman? 
NORMAN Come on! This way! 
COURTNEY You've gotta be kidding me... Norman, his mouth shielded by his sleeve, heads purposefully toward the front doors. 
EXT. TOWN HALL - MOMENTS LATER 
A loud THUD from within the Town Hall causes the gathered crowd outside to GASP, and those closest to the doors to take a few steps back. The crowd GASPS again as the charred front door of the Town Hall is wrenched off its hinges by a huge piece of timber and CRASHES down the steps in a shower of flaming splinters. A ripple of shock runs through the crowd as a number of skeletal figures emerge, SPLUTTERING and WHEEZING through the smoke, shielding their faces from the heat. The gathered crowd are even more aghast when they realize a child is being guided out of the flames by the zombies. Unseen by the crowd, Courtney and the other kids crawl to the splintered opening of the front door, blinking and COUGHING for air. Hooper pulls out her gun and marches toward the zombies. 
SHERIFF HOOPER You stay right where you are! You may be dead already, but I will still shoot you! ParaNorman 77. 
131 CONTINUED: 131 The zombies stop on the steps, burning building behind them and the hostile townsfolk in front of them. Norman pushes through and stands firmly in the way of Hooper's gun, arms spread defensively. 
NORMAN Wait! Courtney and the other kids GASP as they watch from within the doorway. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Oh my gosh! Far above, the clouds THUNDER like demonic laughter. Perry steps forward, face red. 
PERRY BABCOCK Son! Step away from the zombies! 
NORMAN No! I won't! Sandra comes up behind her husband and holds his arm. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Perry, calm down! You're going to have a heart attack and then what are you going to do? 
PERRY BABCOCK I'll come back and haunt Norman! Maybe then he'll start listening to me! 
NORMAN No! You don't understand what's happening here! I spoke to them and it's not what you think! Courtney edges forward out of the doorway, shocked but transfixed. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) The curse isn't about the zombies hurting you! It's about you hurting them! I figured it out, and I know a way to stop this! 
MRS HENSCHER He's in league with them! A few members of the crowd try to push past Perry toward the steps. 
DEPUTY DWAYNE Let's hang him! ParaNorman 78. 
131 CONTINUED: (2) 131 
GUCCI LADY No! We can't hang him, stupid! It's the 21st Century! 
DEPUTY DWAYNE Then let's burn him! Sandra turns despairingly to the crowd behind her. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Can you stop being a mob for just one minute?! 
NORMAN Listen to me! 
INT. STATION WAGON - CONTINUOUS 
The Dead Judge sits rigidly between Norman and Courtney in the back of Perry's station wagon, Perry and Sandra in the front. Perry drives in silent discomfort following the Judge's instructions through town, glancing in his rear-view mirror at the passengers in the back seat. Sandra takes a small perfume spritzer from her purse as surreptitiously as she can and sprays the air around her. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS - CONTINUOUS 
The car turns a corner into the path of an overturned truck, caught by the spectral wind. It cartwheels down the middle of the street, tearing up the asphalt. 
I/E. STATION WAGON - CONTINUOUS Perry swerves out of its path of destruction. Inside, Sandra cranes her neck around to watch the truck CRASH down the road behind them. She faces front again. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Boy, the traffic tonight! 
COURTNEY Norman! He's on my side of the seat! 
NORMAN She wants you to move over. The Judge MUMBLES. 
COURTNEY I heard that! Mom! Tell the zombie to stop saying stuff about me! 
NORMAN Can you quit using the "z" word? 
PERRY BABCOCK So help me I will stop this car right now if all three of you don't quit it this instant! ParaNorman 82. 
CONTINUED: After a moment, the Judge lets out a sepulchral MOAN. 
NORMAN He says "take a left here". Perry gives a distasteful look, but turns the steering wheel. He peers out through the raging storm, windscreen wiper batting ineffectively at the onslaught of debris. 
PERRY BABCOCK We've already been this way. We're going around in circles! 
SANDRA BABCOCK Maybe we should pull over and ask someone? 
PERRY BABCOCK Oh, right, you think maybe we should stop at a graveyard and dig up some other eighteenth-century corpses? 
SANDRA BABCOCK It's not a bad idea. 
PERRY BABCOCK I wish I understood you. 
I/E. STATION WAGON - CONTINUOUS From the back seat, the Judge turns to Norman and GROANS. 
PERRY BABCOCK Please don't tell me he needs to use the bathroom. Norman listens as the Judge continues GRUMBLING, then leans forward over his father's seat, pointing. 
NORMAN Turn down there! 
EXT. OLD FOREST TRAIL - CONTINUOUS 
The car turns tightly off a secluded road onto a dirt path running into the thick of the surrounding woodland. 
SANDRA BABCOCK Oh my, do you think that's it? ParaNorman 83. 
139 EXT. OLD FOREST TRAIL - MOMENTS LATER 139 
AGGIE You're not like me at all. Norman hesitates, knowing he's on dangerous ground. 
NORMAN Well, I know how you feel? 
AGGIE No you don't. You don't know anything about me. 
NORMAN I know your name is Agatha Prenderghast. The ghostly voice wavers for the first time. 
AGGIE What? 
NORMAN And I know you're probably tired. Right? Because, I mean, it's really late and it's been a long night and we're, like, only eleven years-old, and... The voice snaps back like a clap of thunder. 
AGGIE I don't want to go to sleep, and you can't make me! I burnt the book into dust, and now I don't have to listen to that stupid story any more! Leave me alone! Norman is terrified, but advances on the tree, the rocks under his feet churning. 
NORMAN No. I'm not leaving. Just listen to me. (takes a breath) Uh... once upon a time... long ago... there was a little girl... ParaNorman 86. 
140 CONTINUED: (2) 140 
AGGIE What? 
NORMAN A little girl who was different from the other people in her village. The voice chants petulantly over him as if putting its demonic fingers in its ears. 
AGGIE I'm not listening! LA-LA-LA-LA-LA- 
LAAA! 
NORMAN She could see and do things that no one could understand, and that made them scared of her. 
AGGIE I don't like this story! 
NORMAN She turned away from everyone, and became sad and lonely, and had no one to turn to. 
AGGIE Stop it! If Aggie weren't floating three feet above the ground, she'd be stamping her feet. Her voice blows bits of bark off the surrounding trees. 
NORMAN But the more she turned away from people, the more scared they were of her, and they did something terrible! Arcs of white energy CRACKLE through the air. Where they hit the ground, they send up white flames. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) They became so scared that they took her away and killed her! 
AGGIE No! 
NORMAN But even though she was dead something in her came back. 
AGGIE Stop! ParaNorman 87. 
140 CONTINUED: (3) 140 
NORMAN And this part of her wouldn't go away, not for three hundred years... 
AGGIE Shut up! 
AGGIE Aggie. My name was Aggie. ParaNorman 89. 
141 CONTINUED: 141 A brightly-colored butterfly flutters between them. Aggie starts to remember as she follows its flight. 
AGGIE (CONT'D) I... I remember my mommy brought me here once. We sat under the tree and she told me stories. They all had happy endings. 
(BROW FURROWS) And then those horrible men came and took me away and I never saw her again! She scowls angrily at the butterfly flitting past her face. It instantly crumples up into ashes. Surprised, she GASPS and watches the blackened dust fall to the ground. There's anger in Aggie, but there is confusion, sadness and regret there too. She isn't quite so scary anymore. 
NORMAN Sometimes when people get scared they say and do terrible things. I think you got so scared, that you forgot who you are. But I don't think you're a witch. Not really. Aggie looks into his eyes. 
AGGIE You don't? 
NORMAN I think you're just a little kid with a really special gift who only ever wanted people to understand her. He smiles softly. 
NORMAN (CONT'D) So we're not all that different at all. 
AGGIE But what about the people who hurt you? Don't you ever want to make them suffer? Norman thinks this over, and shrugs. 
NORMAN Well, yeah, but what good would that do? You think just because there's bad people out there that there's no good ones either? I thought the same thing. 
(MORE) ParaNorman 90. 
141 CONTINUED: (2) 141 
NORMAN (CONT'D) For a while. But there's always someone out there for you. Somewhere. Aggie frowns, looking lost. 
AGGIE I just want my mommy... 
NORMAN I'm sorry, Aggie. She's gone. 
AGGIE That story you were telling. How does it end? 
NORMAN I think that's up to you. Aggie blinks through tears at the grass beneath her feet. 
AGGIE Is this where they buried me? 
NORMAN It's a pretty good place to sleep. Then you can be with your mom again. Aggie holds Norman's gaze, then looks down to the ground, her tiny frame heaving with a last SOB. She sits down on the grass and curls up, resting her head on her hands. Norman kneels down next to her as she closes her eyes. Her breathing grows deeper and more peaceful; her tiny frame shifting softly under her long hair. The air around them grows blurry and indistinct. Aggie softens as though out of focus, and the whole world becomes a swirling dance of glowing orbs. Norman closes his eyes as a blizzard of light engulfs him, spiraling up into the clouds high above his head. Lightning flashes white far above and thunder RUMBLES softly through the sky, as if moving away. 
EXT. TOWN HALL - CONTINUOUS 
The zombies form a group in the center of the square, all of them looking up into the clouds. The people around them stop and stare, awestruck as a breeze buffets their clothes and the air around them begins to shimmer. As the modern townsfolk watch on, some of the zombies take each others' arms for support. Those with eyelids close them. One by one their bodies dissolve away, leaving ethereal figures in their place. ParaNorman 91. 
143 CONTINUED: 143 For a moment they float where they stood, ghostly apparitions of the people they once were before the curse. They stare sadly out at their flesh and blood descendents, and in an instant become just specks of light that are caught by the breeze and carried out of sight. 
EXT. OLD FOREST CLEARING - NIGHT 
Norman blinks open his eyes, taking a moment to survey the scene around him. He sits upon the upturned root of the tree, the earth around broken and twisted, a testament to what has happened. He looks up into the sky and gives a sad smile. 
NORMAN Sleep tight. He clambers down through the roots back toward the path. 
