PARIAH 
Written by 
Dee Rees 
SUPER: "WHEREVER THE BIRD WITH NO FEET FLEW, SHE FOUND TREES WITH NO LIMBS." --- AUDRE LORDE 
FADE IN: 
1   EXT/INT. NIGHTCLUB- EVENING                                   1 
A disembodied gaggle of jersey clad shoulders, jeans, and hats crosses a narrow street. Lights flare, hands are stamped, torsos are patted down. Money exchanges hands. We descend into a black, throbbing tunnel. 
Explicit music booms from bassy club speakers.   Hips, legs feet dancing. 
A GO-GO DANCER struts and wiggles around a brass pole.   Hoots and cheers. 
The dancer marches in place, rolling her thonged bottom. More cheers, greedy hands stuff dollars into her waistband. 
FEMALE DJ (O.S.) Let's go! Where all my sexy Sagittarian ladies at? 
Arms go up.   A collection of whoops ripple the crowd. 
The dancer wraps her legs around the pole and oozes upward headfirst. The CAMERA ROTATES as she stretches her booted heels into the crowd. We realize that she has been dancing on the ceiling. 
FEMALE DJ (O.S.) Oh my God! 
ALIKE (pronounced AH-LEE-KAY), 17, covers her mouth, laughing and wide-eyed. She tries to back away from the stage, but is pushed forward by a torrent of eager arms waving dollar bills. Among them is LAURA, 18, worldly and smooth. 
LAURA Where your singles at?!! Where your singles at?!! Yeah, baby! 
Laura strains over Alike's shoulder to tuck a bill into the dancer's boot. Alike drops her beer in all the jostling. 
FEMALE DJ Goddamn I love my job! 
Laura stuffs a bill into Alike's now empty hand and forcibly waves Alike's wrist in the air. 
Alike pulls free just as the dancer takes notice and begins to direct her attention at her. 
ALIKE Stop! Chill!! 
LAURA Whatchu' come here for?! 
Alike shoves the dollar bill into Laura's chest and shoulders her way past the wall of onlookers surrounding the stage. Laura shrugs, puts the bill in her teeth and lays her head at the edge of the stage. Alike looks away and breaks through a snarl of clubgoers just as the dancer begins to descend. 
ALIKE Excuse me. Sorry. Excuse me. Oof, sorry ladies. 
Finally free of the throng, Alike takes a breath and looks at the clock on her cell phone. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) Shit! 
She rolls her eyes back to the stage where Laura is no longer visible. Not daring to risk another plunge into the throbbing crowd, she retreats for the bar. 
FEMALE DJ Let's go! 
2   INT. NIGHTCLUB BAR- NIGHT                                     2 
Alike beaches at an empty spot at the bar. Her gaze settles on a CUTE GIRL a little ways down, staring out at the dance floor. Alike jerks her eyes away and smooths the front of her shirt and adjusts her hat as she edges toward the girl. 
ALIKE Hi. 
The girl ignores her. Alike clears her throat and speaks a little too loudly. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) Umm... Hey! How are you?! 
The girl jerks around and frowns at Alike, looking her up and down. 
CUTE GIRL What?! 
ALIKE Umm...sorry. I was just sayin' Umm...hi. 
CUTE GIRL Oh. 
ALIKE Shut up! 
LAURA Trying to help your ass. I'm sayin', whatchu waitin' for?! 
Alike shrugs it off, her smile fading a little. Laura elbows her and sneers. 
LAURA Kickin' that same `ol quiet shit since 6th grade. I don't need to press, I gets plenty. Shit. 
ALIKE Wah-wah. 
LAURA I get more pussy than your daddy, nigga, what?! 
ALIKE Oh shit!! Yeah, you got me with that one. 
7   INT. BUS - NIGHT                                              7 
Alike becomes more quiet and less playful as the ride wears on. A middle-class Bronx landscape, well-lit with a newly constructed Starbucks and renovated condos flits by the window. Alike reaches over and presses the tape. Laura elbows Alike. 
LAURA Quit playing. 
ALIKE Your stop. 
LAURA Huh? 
ALIKE Your stop-- you're getting off here, right? 
LAURA Nah, I'll roll with you a few more stops. 
ALIKE Why you gon' walk all the way back down for? That's stupid. 
LAURA Make sure you get home okay. 
The bus pulls to the curb. The light flicks on over the back door. 
ALIKE You ain't big, nigga. Trying to protect somebody. Hurry up, man, get off! 
LAURA (to bus driver) That's alright man--next stop. Next stop! 
Alike elbows Laura sharply. The bus driver frowns in the rear view. 
LAURA You ain't gotta push me, why're you beastin'? 
ALIKE I'm not beastin'. 
Laura climbs over Alike and swings toward the door. 
LAURA You got a problem. Call me. 
ALIKE I'ma call you. 
Alike turns and watches Laura stroll away. Laura drums a little beat on Alike's window as the bus pulls off. Alike waves and faces forward again. An OLD LADY sitting nearby shoots her a disapproving look. Alike rolls her eyes and moves to a seat farther away. 
8   INT. BUS - CONTINUOUS                                         8 
Alike studies her reflection in the window, and takes a breath. She unbuttons her bulky men's shirt to reveal a fitting baby doll shirt that reads "Princess." She stuffs her baseball cap and durag into her backpack and jabs a pair of small gold hoop earrings into her ears. She slumps back against the seat and stares into the night. 
The bus stops at a lonely island of curb. Alike is a dark silhouette sprinting around the corner and into the night. 
9   INT. ALIKE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                                9 
Alike cracks open the front door just wide enough to slip through. The house is dark except for the flashing microwave clock. 
Alike takes off her sneakers and pads down the hallway. Her younger sister, SHARONDA's door cracks open as she passes. 
SHARONDA You late. 
ALIKE (whispering) Be quiet. 
SHARONDA Where you been this late? 
ALIKE (whispering) Movies. 
SHARONDA Movie ended at midnight. 
Audrey leaves. Alike is still. She listens for the door to her parent's room to shut before snatching off the scarf and storming to the bathroom. 
11   INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT                                     11 
Alike turns on the faucet, wets the soap and puts it back in the dish, wets her wash cloth and puts it back on the rack. She plops down on the toilet and looks up. A crucifix frowns down at her from the wall. 
She averts her eyes and stands to leave. 
AUDREY (O.S.) Did you brush your teeth? 
Alike wets her toothbrush and throws it back into the holder. 
AUDREY (O.S.) Lee? 
Alike squeezes out a dollop of toothpaste and smears a little around the sink. She stares at her reflection. 
AUDREY (O.S.) Lee? 
Alike flicks water droplets at the mirror for good measure. 
ALIKE Yes, mom. 
12   EXT. SCHOOL - MORNING                                     12 
Alike, bundled in an oversized hoodie edges up to the perimeter of campus and waits against a bus shelter. STUDENTS horseplay and mill about the entrance in groups, chugging their morning Fantas and munching on snack cakes. The school bell rings and the lawn slowly empties into the building. Alike shifts her weight and checks her watch as the last STRAGGLERS finally trickle in. She yanks her hoodie tighter and launches across the lawn and into the building. 
13   INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - MORNING                             13 
A second school bell sounds and the din of slamming lockers and jubilant chatter dies to a hush as students shuffle into classrooms. Alike cracks the back stairwell door and peeks out into the mostly empty hallway before tearing for the bathroom. One last straggler BINA, a 17 year-old girl with mature, but down-to-earth good looks rushes past Alike. The two exchange a brief, confused look then mutually dismiss each other as they hurry in opposite directions. 
14   INT. SCHOOL BATHROOM - MORNING                            14 
Alike hurtles into the handicapped stall and snaps it shut behind her. She rips off her hoodie and the "girly" shirt beneath and flings them to the floor. She pulls out a pair of wife-beaters from her bag and pulls them over her head. She unwads a polo shirt and yanks it over her head. 
She stares at her reflection in the window and tries unsuccessfully to smooth her shirt. Her eyes scour her reflection again and again for any imperfections. She spots the earrings and yanks them out of her ears. The late bell beckons and Alike stuffs her "feminine" clothes into her backpack and bolts. 
15   INT. MATH CLASSROOM - DAY                                    15 
The MATH TEACHER glides up and down the aisles passing out graded tests. A chorus of groans follows in her wake. 
MATH TEACHER As promised, I will be grading these on a curve. 
Alike is folded into the backmost corner of the classroom. The desks in front her and beside her are empty. She is ignored as the rest of the class chatters and passes notes. 
MATH TEACHER (CONT'D) But the highest grade on the test was a 98. 
The math teacher puts Alike's test on her desk and gives her a little smile. Alike doesn't smile back. 
The lunch bell rings and the class is a tornado, clearing the room in a rush of limbs, shouts, and backpacks. Alike jabs her headphones into her ears and packs her bag very deliberately, letting the eye of the storm pass over her before heading toward the door. 
16   INT. SCHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY                                  16 
The cafeteria is a whirl of activity and social jockeying. Clusters of girls and boys loud-talk, flirt, fight and horseplay at tables and in tight little groups against the walls. Alike walks alone, staying at the fringes of the crowd and shrugs through the cafeteria line. 
17   INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY                                    17 
Alike flees the cafeteria, tray laden with rubbery cuisine of dubious nutritional value. She raps on the door of a classroom and slips in. 
MRS. ALVARADO (O.S.) Hey there! 
18   INT. AP ENGLISH CLASSROOM - DAY                             18 
ALIKE Hey! 
MRS. ALVARADO, a middle aged Californian ex-hippie type reclines with her feet on her desk, munching on celery sticks and sunflower seed paste. Her small desk radio plays alternative rock. Sun beams into the empty classroom and Alike squints as she yanks the headphones out of her ears and pulls up a chair next to her desk. 
MRS. ALVARADO Whaddja bring me? 
ALIKE Nothin' you can eat. 
MRS. ALVARADO You shouldn't be eatin' that crap, either. 
ALIKE (over a mouthful of pizza) I know. 
AUDREY Yeah see isn't this cute? 
MRS. SINGLETARY Umm-hmm. That's for your daughter? 
AUDREY Yeah, this is for Alike. 
MRS. SINGLETARY The youngest one. 
AUDREY No she's the oldest one. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Oh, the other one. Okay. 
AUDREY What, you think it's too young? 
MRS. SINGLETARY No, no. For whatever reason the youngest one popped in my mind first. But I think it should be fine. It's really cute. 
AUDREY Thank you. 
MRS. SINGLETARY It'll compliment her figure. 
AUDREY Now see that's what I thought... But Lee doesn't like anything I pick out for her anymore. 
Mrs. Singletary takes a bite of her lunch and takes the sweater from Audrey. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Girl, please. My oldest, 17 going on 27 mind you, banned me from buying her any more clothes. We have two completely different tastes. I just give her gift cards now and trust me, we're both happier for it. Is it her birthday? 
Mrs. Singletary hands the sweater back to Audrey who smooths it carefully back into the tissue paper. 
AUDREY No, no. I just wanted to get her something nice. You know. 
Three ROWDY CO-WORKERS burst into the room chattering and finger popping. 
ROWDY CO-WORKER #1 Hey, Brenda! 
ROWDY CO-WORKER #2              ROWDY CO-WORKER #3 Oooooh Audrey, you got me a     What'chall in here talking present?                        about? 
AUDREY Well, no we-- 
MRS. SINGLETARY None of yo' damn business!! 
The co-workers hoot in unison and descend upon the various parts of the breakroom. Audrey shoves the sweater back in the bag and nestles it between her feet. Somebody cranks on a small radio and a frisky R&B beat invades the air. Mrs. Singletary pats Audrey on the arm. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Let me know how it goes. 
AUDREY Oh I will. I'll call you when-- 
ROWDY CO-WORKER #3 Hey Bren' this is what I was telling you about!! 
Co-worker #3 shoves a tabloid in Mrs. Singletary's face, tapping an angry orange fingernail in the middle of the page. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Is that her?! 
ROWDY CO-WORKER #3              ROWDY CO-WORKER #2 Told you!                       Look how big she done got! 
The center of the room shifts and Audrey is once again alone at the fringes. She collects her shopping bag and looks around to say goodbye, but no one notices her leave. 
21   INT. ALIKE'S KITCHEN - EVENING                            21 
Audrey, Sharonda, Alike, and their father, ARTHUR, 40- something with a used-to-be athletic build, are all gathered around the dinner table for a rare family dinner. Everyone takes half-hearted nibbles at their food avoiding eye contact with each other. Sharonda picks at her food. 
SHARONDA I don't see why we can't just watch TV like usual. 
Alike elbows Sharonda. 
SHARONDA Quit it! 
ALIKE Shut up. 
SHARONDA You don't tell me what to do! 
AUDREY Girls. 
The phone rings and Arthur beats a path to bedroom to get it. Audrey wilts. 
LAURA I can get some more hours-- 
CANDACE No. You know what you need to do. 
LAURA Nah Candy, I can't just dip out on you like that-- 
CANDACE I was doing just fine before you moved in, remember? I can handle it. 
Laura sucks her teeth. 
CANDACE (CONT'D) You working was only supposed to be temporary. Mom would've wanted-- 
LAURA Who?! Man, don't even-- 
CANDACE She would've-- 
LAURA Stop. 
Laura pushes up from the table and glares at Candace, a showdown. Candace stares back, unfazed. Laura caves first. 
LAURA (CONT'D) I'll get the money orders in the morning. 
Laura tugs at the envelope but Candace doesn't let go right away. 
LAURA (CONT'D) I'll look into it alright? 
Candace relinquishes the envelope and Laura stalks off down the hallway to her room. 
CANDACE The next test is coming up soon! 
LAURA (O.S.) I said I'll look into it! 
Candace smiles wanly and sips her soup. She takes a foot out of the water and kneads it. 
23   INT. SCHOOL BATHROOM - MORNING                            23 
Alike slams into her usual stall and launches into her `Superman' changing routine. She unrolls pulls a jersey from her backpack and yanks it over her head. 
24   EXT. SCHOOL LAWN - AFTERNOON                              24 
Alike sits off to one side of the stairs, headphoned into oblivion and scribbling into her composition book. A group of FAST GIRLS strut by and encamp on the opposite wall, giggling and yakking on cell phones. One of the girls, MIKA cuts a flirty smile at Alike. Alike turns away and buries herself in her book, but cranks down the volume on her iPod. 
MIKA'S FRIEND It was like seven of us--Me, Khalil, Misha, Tamara.... 
FAST GIRL #2 Tamara Marks? 
MIKA'S FRIEND Heeeell no--Fat Tamara. 
MIKA Oh I was about to say, Tamara Marks is a ughh--I can't stand her. 
MIKA'S FRIEND Anyway, it was all of us and oh Laura, you know that girl from the restaurant? She was there with one of her friends. 
Alike's ears prick up. 
MIKA That gay chick? Ya'll be hanging like that? 
MIKA'S FRIEND Yeah, well it's a couple of them. She's mad cool though, so sometime she come out with us every now and then, anyway-- 
MIKA Man, y'all be doin' it on it weekends, let me find out! 
FAST GIRL #2 I told your butt to come. 
MIKA'S FRIEND But anyway-- 
MIKA Some of them AG's are kinda cute-- I'm not saying I would, but I would holla. 
FAST GIRL #2 I don't know about all that. 
MIKA Isn't that one of them over there? What's her name? Amika?--Alisha? 
The pack directs their attention at Alike. Alike profiles and attempts to look casual. 
MIKA'S FRIEND Alike. 
ALIKE I don't want to holla at girls in the club. 
LAURA Obviously. Why you pressed about this chick? 
Alike shrugs. 
ALIKE I wanted to ask you about something else too. 
LAURA Oh God, what now? 
ALIKE I need you to get something for me. 
LAURA What?! 
Alike cocks her head at Laura. Laura frowns back. 
LAURA What?! 
ALIKE Just for my image. 
Alike raises her eyebrow. Laura shakes her head. The light bulb goes off. She roars in disbelief. 
LAURA WHAAAAAT???!! You trying to strap!!?? Whaaatt?!! Oh my God, what are you going through... 
ALIKE Please. 
LAURA What difference you think having a bulge in your pants gon' make? 
ALIKE Pleeeeease. By next Friday. 
LAURA Next Friday?! Okay-- Whatever. Oh my God I can't believe you ! Alright. Yeah. She better be cute for all of this... 
26   INT. ALIKE'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON                            26 
Alike stares at herself in a floor length bedroom mirror in her underwear. 
LAURA I think it looks natural. 
A peach-colored dildo dangles stiffly from Alike's waist. The harness bunches her boxers in clumsy tufts. Alike appraises the racially inappropriate apparatus and shoots Laura a look. 
LAURA I'm serious, I mean it doesn't look that bad. 
ALIKE I can't believe you. 
Alike frowns at the dildo in profile. 
LAURA What?! 
ALIKE Laura, this doesn't look right. I'ma look stupid. 
LAURA Well, first of all-- I don't think its supposed to be on top of your underwear like that. 
ALIKE I'm not putting this thing next to my skin, it pinches already. 
Alike yanks at the harness and her boxers trying to pull it out of her bottom. 
LAURA It's supposed to fit like that. 
ALIKE They didn't have any brown? 
LAURA I didn't have time for all of that. The brown ones were too big, anyway. 
Alike struggling with the apparatus.   Laura smiles. 
ALIKE Ugh! You gotta take it back. 
LAURA I can't take it back. 
ALIKE Here's the receipt! 
LAURA Unh-unh. I'm not going back in there. One time was embarrassing enough. 
ALIKE You grown! 
AUDREY Lee... (notices Laura) Oh. Hello Laura, I didn't see you standing there. 
LAURA Hi Mrs. Freeman. 
AUDREY How's your mother? 
LAURA I haven't spoken to her in awhile. She's fine. 
AUDREY Well I hope so. And I'm so glad to hear your sisters finally getting back on her feet. Wasn't she-- 
LAURA She's good. 
ALIKE Mom?! 
Audrey fixes Laura with another hard glance and shoos Sharonda down the hallway. Laura starts to shut the door, but Audrey stops it with her arm. 
AUDREY I think we'll just leave this open. Let some air circulate in here. 
LAURA I was just about to leave, anyway. So... 
Audrey lingers, looking back and forth between Laura and Alike. Alike frowns at her mother. 
Satisfied that the conversation is over, Audrey moves off toward her room. Laura checks to make sure she's gone and whispers to Alike. 
LAURA Just try it. 
27   INT. NIGHTCLUB COUCH - EVENING                               27 
Alike squirms in her seat. 
LAURA Will you chill? You just gotta get used to it. 
Alike tugs at her crotch and attempts to cross her legs. 
ALIKE Owwww! 
Alike uncrosses her legs and yanks at her jeans. Laura bats her hand away. 
LAURA Sit still, people gon' think you got something. 
ALIKE This joint hurts, man. I'ma go take it off. 
LAURA You not gon' take it off. 
ALIKE I'm gonna take it off. 
LAURA Where you gonna take it off at? 
ALIKE In the bathroom. 
LAURA Then where you gon' put it? You gonna walk around the club with a dick in your hand? Chill. I knew we shouldn't have done this. You blowin' me right now. 
ALIKE Then I'm out. 
LAURA Nah, you're `bout to stay and go through this. You're the one who wanted to meet her, not me. 
ALIKE Then you come on, too. Hurry up-- 
A group of girls approaches, one of them we recognize as Mika, the girl that likes Alike, from the bathroom. Laura stands to greet them. Nervous introductions all around. Laura shoots Alike a warning glance. 
28   INT. NIGHTCLUB COUCH - LATER                              28 
Laura is hugged up with two girls at the end of the couch. Alike fidgets in her seat and keeps pulling at the knees of her jeans. Mika hand in chin, stares into space. Alike does another pull-fidget combo. Mika rolls her eyes at her. 
MIKA You alright? 
ALIKE Yeah, no, yeah it's just--there's a spring in the cushion or something. 
MIKA You wanna switch seats? 
ALIKE No, I'm good. 
MIKA And you don't wanna dance? 
AUDREY (CONT'D) What's wrong with you? 
ALIKE Alright, Mom. 
AUDREY You'll have to excuse her, she's been feeling rude lately. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Oh don't worry, Audrey, I understand how it is. Hormones. It's just a phase. 
AUDREY Alike, this is Mrs. Singletary, one of my co-workers and her daughter, Bina. Sylvia, Bina, this is my daughter Alike, we call her "Lee" for short. 
Alike shakes both of their hands in turn. 
ALIKE Hi. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Hello. 
ALIKE Nice to meet you. 
BINA Hi. 
AUDREY And this is my youngest daughter, Sharonda. 
SHARONDA Hi. 
BINA Hi. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Hi there, nice to meet you. 
AUDREY Lee, Bina goes to the same school as you. 
ALIKE Cool. 
BINA Yeah, I think I've seen you around. Mrs. Alvarado's class right? AP English? 
ALIKE Yup. 
Audrey looks pleased with herself. Alike squirms. 
AUDREY So. Now that we're all acquainted, don't be a stranger. 
MRS. SINGLETARY Oh no, we won't. 
AUDREY Bina I think you and Lee may even go to school the same way. Don't you live off of St. James Place? 
MRS. SINGLETARY There is something to be said for safety in numbers. 
Bina nods. Alike squirms. 
MRS. SINGLETARY (CONT'D) Well, we need to be pushing off -- I'll call you about those VBS workbooks. 
Alike retreats into the car, Sharonda hops in behind her. Alike reaches over and turns the key in the ignition. 
AUDREY Alrighty, I'll be around. Take care. 
Alike toots the horn. Audrey circles and gets in the driver's side. 
35   INT. FAMILY CAR - CONTINUOUS                                35 
ALIKE You're funny. 
AUDREY I don't know what your problem is. 
SHARONDA Can somebody put in this CD please? 
Audrey cranks the ignition and starts to back out. 
ALIKE I don't know what you think is going to change. 
AUDREY I know God doesn't make mistakes. I know that much. 
An invisible scab is ripped open in Alike and the fire dies in her eyes. Satisfied, Audrey slips the car into gear. 
AUDREY (CONT'D) You may not like Bina, but you're certainly gonna be spending much less time with that Laura person, I guarantee you that much. 
37   INT. LAURA'S BEDROOM - DAY                                    37 
ALIKE (V.O.) Hi! This is Lee, I'm not able to answer my phone right now-- 
Laura snaps her cell phone shut. A GED study book still glossy and uncreased is propped open on the bed in front of her. She opens her cell phone again and pulls up Alike's number. Her thumb hovers over the `talk' button. She snaps the phone shut and tosses it aside before turning the radio down and dragging the book closer. The cell phone rings and she snatches it up. A picture of a girl making a kissy face with the name "Tasha" underneath blinks onto the screen and Laura snaps the phone shut and tosses it aside. She hoists the GED book into her lap and lets her head hit the wall. There is a knock at her bedroom door and Candace peeks in. 
CANDACE How's it comin'? 
LAURA It's good. 
Candace smiles at Laura and hesitates before closing the door. Candace turns the radio off before ducking back out. Laura sighs and flips back to the beginning of the book. 
38   INT. SPORTS CLUB BASKETBALL COURT - DAY                       38 
Alike and Arthur cavort in a sloppy half-court game in the fluorescent glare of the gym. Well-heeled clientele cross to and fro munching power bars and sipping Gatorade. Arthur has an awful shot, but Alike's is worse. Alike heaves a huge airball past the basket. 
ARTHUR Oh my God!! 
Alike cracks up as Arthur chases down the ball. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) That's just embarrassing! 
ALIKE You ain't got no range, either. 
ARTHUR Yeah but at least I hit the backboard. Damn. 
Alike rushes to guard Arthur who dribbles clumsily around the key. He tries a crossover move and lobs an ugly shot toward the basket. 
ALIKE Brick!! 
Laughing, they tussle over the rebound. Arthur recovers. 
ARTHUR What's the score? 
ALIKE One up. 
ARTHUR One? 
ALIKE Yup! 
ARTHUR One? Nah, I definitely have like three. At least three. 
Giggling, the pair rollick in another squeaky-shoed play. 
39   INT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT                                    39 
MACK, the store proprietor leans against the counter flipping through a newspaper. Arthur, in uniform mulls through the sports section. A ratty looking man, SOCK sips from a red plastic cup. 
Mack cranks the volume on the tiny television above the counter. 
MACK It's on again... Check it out Free. Channel 5 and Channel 2. 
Arthur appears on the TV screen, dressed in suit, tie, sunglasses and looking impressive. He is talking to a news reporter and a bad news graphic reading "East Side Drug Bust-- Detective Arthur Freeman" blots out the bottom of the screen. 
SOCK Look who's big time. 
MACK Brother was looking clean though. Looked just like, look like...uh-- Danny Glover! 
Arthur and Mack laugh and slap hands. Sock sneers at their revelry. 
The bell over the door tinkles and a heavyset BUTCH WOMAN strolls in. Her head is shaved and a thick wallet chain clinks against her ample carpenter pants. All three men turn to stare. 
MACK (CONT'D) Been more of that since they opened up that new club `cross the way. 
Arthur grunts and returns to his paper. 
SOCK (to Butch Woman) Excuse me Miss??!! Miiiiissss??!! 
MACK Certain Friday nights they got, you know special parties going on. 
SOCK Or should I say Sir??!! Siiiir??!! Hello?!! 
ARTHUR Chill out, Sock. 
SOCK Fuck y'all! 
ARTHUR I should arrest your ass. 
SOCK Man, fuck y'all!! 
MACK Free, don't pay him no mind. Just talkin' trash. 
Mack playfully jabs him in the shoulder and bustles underneath the counter. Arthur's eyes linger on the door and his jaw tightens. 
40   INT. LAURA'S KITCHEN - DAY                                  40 
Laura swings through the front door of her apartment, Alike close behind. She slides two twenty dollar bills underneath the ceramic hen on the table and breezes into her bedroom. 
41   INT. LAURA'S BEDROOM - LATER                                41 
Alike is a paper doll in Laura's floor length mirror, dressed only in boxers and a wife beater. Laura holds a bright orange polo shirt up in front of Alike's torso. Alike cocks her head to the side and considers. 
LAURA Damn, this is your color. So what's the deal incog-negro? 
ALIKE Mom has me hemmed up. 
LAURA Your phone ain't broke. You coulda called a nigga. Put this on. 
Laura pulls away the orange polo shirt and hands Alike a turquoise one instead. Alike hoists the oversized shirt over her head. 
ALIKE My bad. She's making me hang out with this chick from church. It's crazy. 
LAURA Makin' you?! You a grown-ass woman, bruh! 
Laura shakes her head as she plucks a brand new baseball cap from the wall rack and drops it onto Alike's head. Alike considers and takes it off. Laura puts another cap in its place. Before Alike can object, Laura tosses her a pair of denim shorts. 
LAURA (CONT'D) Try these with it. So I guess the piers is out for Saturday, huh? 
ALIKE I don't even know if that's me anymore. 
Alike struggles into the jean shorts, widening her stance so they don't fall down. Laura tosses her a belt and admires Alike's reflection. 
LAURA Yeah, that's hot, yo. You should rock that. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) I was gonna see if you wanna do something different? 
Alike strips off the baseball cap and hangs it back on the rack. 
LAURA Different like what? 
Alike peels out of the polo shirt. 
ALIKE I don't know--maybe like a open mic or something. 
LAURA Open mic? Nah, man. It's plenty chicks at the piers, you just gotta be more confident. 
Laura crosses to her closet and scans its inventory. The jeans are arranged crisply on hangers from light to dark and some still have store tags. Most of the shirts are still enclosed in protective plastic covers from the dry cleaners. Laura passes Alike a perfectly folded button down shirt. 
LAURA (CONT'D) You can rock this. I haven't even worn it yet. But I understand if you got better things to do. 
Alike holds the shirt against her torso and stares at her reflection. She catches Laura's eager look in the mirror and wilts. 
ALIKE Nah, I'm down. 
LAURA You sure? I don't want you getting hemmed up. 
ALIKE Nah seriously, I'm down for whatever. 
LAURA Real? 
ALIKE Promise. 
LAURA That's what's up! I'ma take the whole day off. It's gonna be tight watch... we gon' do it up! 
Laura holds a new pair of jeans against her body and does a little dance. Alike laughs wanly. 
42   INT. ALIKE'S PARENT'S BEDROOM - EVENING                   42 
BINA Oh... Well, that's cool. 
ALIKE So why weren't you gonna say anything about it? 
BINA About your shirt? 
ALIKE About the poem. 
BINA Cause you're moody. 
ALIKE Moody? 
BINA And quiet. 
ALIKE Man, I'm not moody. 
BINA Yeah, right. 
Bina stops. 
ALIKE What? 
BINA This is me. 
Alike looks up at the stoop, surprised. 
BINA (CONT'D) It's not so bad when there's some conversation, huh? 
Alike looks away. 
BINA (CONT'D) You wanna come up? 
51   INT. BINA'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON                             51 
Alike sits on Bina's twin bed, looking around and really taking in the room for the first time. She reaches over and picks up a little molded soldier figure off of the shelf. Bina fishes around in a rack of CDs. 
ALIKE Who gave you this? 
BINA What the bear? My dad. 
ALIKE No, this. 
Alike holds the figurine out, Bina looks at it over her shoulder. 
BINA Oh that. Girl, my stupid ex- boyfriend gave me that. 
ALIKE Oh. Cute. 
Bina opens a CD case and pulls the booklet out. 
BINA Not really. I mean I guess it was at the time. 
Bina lobs the little army man into a trash can across the room and hands Alike the booklet. 
BINA (CONT'D) Anyway, this is the other artist I was telling you about. Her stuff is like, bouncier. 
A buoyant Afropunk beat wafts through the bedroom. Bina plops down on the bed next to Alike. 
ALIKE This is straight. You'll burn me a copy? 
BINA Yeah, I have a bunch of other stuff, too. (beat) So who do you hang out with? I don't really see you with anybody. 
Alike shrugs and rifles through her backpack. She pulls out her composition book. Awkward silence. 
BINA (CONT'D) I didn't mean it like that. I was just asking because I was curious. I don't really like anybody that goes there either. 
ALIKE My friend Laura used to go there. Not now, but she's going back. 
BINA Oh because, I was just gonna say-- I'm going to this house party and you can come if you want to. 
Bina waves her hand at the radio. 
BINA (CONT'D) They play this kind of music. 
PIER GIRL #1 Awww, we shoulda been done set you! 
Laura slaps hands with her partner. The unlucky pair of partners argue. The personal cheerleader kisses Laura on the neck. Alike looks away. 
PERSONAL CHEERLEADER Good game, baby! 
LAURA What's good, Lee? 
ALIKE Just came to say wassup. 
LAURA Whatchu got, Ty? 
PIER GIRL #2 Three, maybe four. 
LAURA We goin' eight!! 
Roars of disbelief from around the table. Alike is quickly forgotten in the ruckus. Alike circles to Laura's side. The personal cheerleader looks her up and down. 
ALIKE Can I talk to you for a second? 
LAURA Now I got to cut you!! Grab `em partner. We gonna run a Boston on that ass! (MORE) 
(to Alike) Yo, I'm busy right now. 
More raucous laughter from the table. Alike endures another few moments of card slapping, table pounding dejection before leaning into Laura's ear. 
ALIKE I really need to talk to you-- 
LAURA I said later! 
Wide-eyed silence and scattered snickers around the table. Laura resumes her hand and the game banter cranks back up. Alike picks up her face and slips away. 
PIER GIRL #3 Thought that was your girl? 
LAURA Mind your business. Bam! That's what I thought! 
Laura slaps another card on the table and takes a deep swig of water. 
53   INT. ALIKE'S PARENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                        53 
Audrey lies awake in bed. The clock on the nightstand indicates a little past two in the morning. She looks at the sliver of light underneath the bedroom door, the sound of Arthur's key in the door breaks the silence. Arthur's voice in hushed tones. Audrey rolls over and faces the wall. 
54   INT. ALIKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                 54 
Alike watches her father's footsteps break up the light beneath her door. She tosses off her blankets and springs into the hallway. 
ALIKE (loud whisper) Hey Dad! 
She is talking to empty air. She eases down the hallway toward the kitchen and the sound of his muffled voice. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) Dad? 
ARTHUR (O.S.) Come on now, you know that's not what I want. That's not what I'm saying. That's not--listen to me. Are you gonna listen to me? 
ALIKE Mom? 
Alike stops short outside the kitchen door, confused. 
ARTHUR (O.S.) Lee? Hold on. 
55   INT. ALIKE'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS                           55 
Alike swings around the corner. 
ALIKE Huh? 
ARTHUR No, not you. (into phone) Hey, I'll talk to you later, alright? My daughter's up. 
Arthur flips his cell phone shut and tucks it into his pocket. He fishes a beer out of the fridge. 
ALIKE Who was that? 
Arthur sips his beer and walks over to the kitchen table. A foil covered plate with a little pink sticky note waits. 
Arthur slips in and lays his holster on an armchair, not even bothering to approach Audrey's sleeping form. 
Arthur peeks inside the fridge and inspects one of Audrey's foil covered plates. He tosses it aside and gathers sandwich ingredients instead. Audrey yawns and props herself up on one elbow. 
AUDREY Oh you're home? 
ARTHUR Hey. 
AUDREY I must've dozed off. How long have you been in? 
ARTHUR Hour. 
Dad takes a bite of his sandwich and shoves the ingredients back into the fridge. 
AUDREY Did you see the plate in there? 
ARTHUR This is fine. 
Arthur plops down on an armchair and flips the TV channel to sports highlights. Mom scoots over on the couch. 
AUDREY There's room over here. You can see the TV better. 
ARTHUR This is fine. 
Arthur props his feet up on the coffee table and catches Audrey's hurt expression. He winks at her. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) Thank you. 
AUDREY Just alike. 
ARTHUR Say what? 
AUDREY You and your daughter. Have you talked to Lee yet? I told you she-- 
ARTHUR I talked to Alike. 
AUDREY You did? 
ARTHUR Everything's fine. Like I told you. Matter fact, she's got a boyfriend. 
AUDREY Boyfriend? 
ARTHUR Just give her some space. 
AUDREY Space? She's hardly ever home in the first place and you're just like her, creeping in all hours of the night. Both of you. Running around like you got something to hide, like I'm the big, bad witch and what about me? I'm home by myself all the time and Sharonda's getting older and starting to go out and pretty soon-- 
ARTHUR I don't have anything to hide. Look I told you I talked to Alike and everything is fine. 
AUDREY Did you ask her? 
Dad slams down his half-eaten sandwich and stands up. 
ARTHUR No, because I didn't have to. Besides,I would know okay? If anybody would know, it would be me. I know my daughter-- 
AUDREY Your daughter?!! 
ARTHUR --better than anyone else and-- 
AUDREY So now all of a sudden she's just your daughter?! 
ARTHUR                          AUDREY --I'm telling you she's just    Well I guess I better not fine!!                          have nothing else to say then, huh?! 
ARTHUR That's your damn problem, you're too much of a damn worry wart. 
AUDREY Let's hope you're right, Detective. 
ARTHUR Will you shut the fuck up?! 
Audrey jerks to her feet and flings the book aside. 
AUDREY An hour? Really? I'm not your dumb damn floozy in the street. And you will not talk to me that way. 
Audrey slaps the sandwich off Arthur's plate and storms to the bedroom. Arthur sees Sharonda peeking from her bedroom door but can't summon any words. Sharonda skitters into Alike's bedroom. 
LAURA What I'm saying is, I probably overreacted. (beat) And then...I don't know. Seeing you two together or whatever. I'm glad to see you're finally happy. 
ALIKE C'mon man, you know you're my best friend. Nobody's gonna -- 
LAURA You don't need to say anything. I just wanted to get it off my chest. I'm happy for you, that's all. 
Alike shakes her head. Her mouth moves but nothing comes out. 
LAURA (CONT'D) Because I love you, alright? And I'm sayin'...I'm right here. 
Alike is stopped cold, as the light bulb finally goes off. Laura takes a long drag on the joint. Bina and Mika stumble over giggling. Bina hooks Alike's arm. Mika kisses Laura on the neck. Laura snaps out of her gaze, her familiar smirk creeping back. 
MIKA We goin' to get something to eat? 
LAURA That's what's up. 
ALIKE Listen, umm-- 
Laura pinches out the joint and hands it to Mika who tucks it away. 
LAURA That's for later. Bina, nice to meet you. 
BINA You too. We had fun. 
Laura gives Bina a polite hug, pounds Alike on the shoulder and starts to lead Mika away. 
MIKA                                 ALIKE Byyeee!!                           Hey hold up! 
Laura pumps a lazy    fist in the air in acknowledgement. Bina takes Alike's hand    and slowly drags her away. Alike keeps looking back, then    finally gives up. Laura looks back just as Alike turns around    and disappears around the corner. 
BINA (CONT'D) I like your friends. They're cool. 
66   INT. BINA'S BEDROOM - LATER                                  66 
Music videos play on the TV. Alike and Bina lay stretched out on pillows, a plate of brownie crumbs between them. Alike dozes. Bina smacks her with a pillow. 
ALIKE I'm not sleep. 
BINA Yes you are. 
Alike rubs sleep out of her eyes and props herself up on one elbow. 
ALIKE Any brownies left? 
BINA Nope. 
Bina flicks off the TV and stares at Alike. 
ALIKE What? 
BINA Nothing. 
Alike looks away. 
BINA (CONT'D) What? 
ALIKE Nothing. 
Alike folds her arms behind her head. Bina strokes Alike's stomach. Her finger's dance at the top of Alike's pajama bottoms. Their eyes meet. Alike sits bolt upright. 
BINA What're you doing? What's wrong? 
ALIKE This is uh... I never... I'm sorry, I'm trippin' out. 
BINA It's okay. We don't have to. 
Alike leans in and kisses Bina on the lips. Bina considers and takes Alike's chin in her hand and kisses her back. Bina places Alike's hand on her chest. Alike lets her hand linger, then traces Bina's shoulders. 
67   INT. LAURA'S KITCHEN - MORNING                               67 
Laura stands over the kitchen table shuffling through the mail. She pauses at a stiff envelope with her name on it. The return address reads "NYS Educational & Testing Services". She flips the envelope over and looks around, she rips the top off and eases the top of a slip out of the envelope. The top of the slip reads "'Campbell, Laura' GED TESTING RESULTS." 
68   EXT. BRONX HOME - MORNING                                    68 
Bina moves away and levels her gaze at Alike for the first time. Alike touches Bina's elbow, Bina flinches away. 
BINA Look, I'm not gay okay? This isn't me--I wasn't--I'm not ready for all this... 
Alike recruits the discarded stuffed moose and dances it around on the bed. Bina recoils and snatches it away. Recognition seeps across Alike's pained face. Bina moves away from the bed and turns her back on Alike. 
Alike finds her pajama pants on the floor and yanks them on. She pulls on jeans over her pajama bottoms and hauls a sweatshirt down over her nightie. She flings her backpack open on the bed and hunts around the room wildly gathering her things. Alike goes in the bathroom and reappears with an armful of toiletries, dumping them in the bag. Bina watches her, arms folded. Alike takes one last look around the room and heads for the door, running a sleeve across her face. 
BINA (CONT'D) Lee? 
Alike ignores her and launches into the hallway.   Bina runs to her bedroom doorway. 
BINA (CONT'D) Wait--Lee?! 
Alike beelines for the front door. Bina chases Alike across the room. 
BINA (CONT'D) Lee, stop please? 
Alike wipes a sleeve across her swelling eyes and running nose and turns to face her. Bina takes several steps toward her. Alike lets go of the doorhandle, her voice cracks. 
ALIKE What? 
BINA You promise you won't tell anybody? 
70   EXT. BINA'S HOUSE/STREET - DAY                            70 
Alike rages outside, weaving blind fury down the sidewalk. She kicks over a cluster of garbage cans and cyclones out into the street, narrowly missing getting hit by a car. She continues her zag to the other sidewalk, her pace quickening. She rips open her backpack and launches a baseball cap into the air. She tears a handful of wifebeaters from the bag and flings them into the street. Spinning and thrashing she wrenches out a football jersey and jams it into another garbage can. She circles back and kicks the can over. She hurtles her backpack into the trees like a discus and sheds her hoodie like a skin before disappearing into the scream of a subway station. 
71   INT. ALIKE'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING                        71 
Lee bursts into the living room and charges to her bedroom. Audrey, who has been waiting in the living room storms in after her. 
AUDREY Where in the hell have you been?! 
Alike kicks off her shoes and paces the room. 
AUDREY (CONT'D) You hear me talking to you ?! Where you been? You left Bina's hours ago!!!! Lee-- 
ALIKE I'M NOT YOUR HUSBAND!!!! 
Audrey gasps in stunned silence. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) I'm not your husband so stop comin' at me like I am. I'm not your companion, I'm not your friend -- you made that abundantly clear--I'm your daughter and I have my own shit to deal with!! 
AUDREY LEE--don't you dare--Alike--I am your Mother-- 
Audrey melts back against the doorjamb. Alike slings off her shirt and slams the door in Audrey's face. A livid Audrey bangs on the door and jiggles the handle. 
AUDREY (CONT'D) You must have lost your damn mind! Wait until your father gets home! 
72   INT. ALIKE'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS                         72 
Alike attacks her closet, ripping all the "girly" shirts from the hangers and hurling them toward a small vanity trashcan. She plunges back in and slams an armful of blouses to the floor. She launches a pair of pumps into the wall, followed by a chunky pair of Timberlands. Silent sobs rack her body as she tears off her own shirt and slings it at the mirror. She strips off her jeans and kicks them brutally into a corner. Alike considers her unclothed form in the mirror before collapsing onto the bed. She writhes against the pillows and covers her eyes with her elbow as darts of grief twist through her body. Blackout. 
73   INT. ALIKE'S BEDROOM - LATER                              73 
Alike jerks awake in her bed, a pillow pulled down around her ears. The sound of a muffled argument leaks from her parents's bedroom. The shouting gets louder, and Alike sits upright in her bed as her father's footsteps boom past her doorway and into the living room. Audrey's voice trails him down the hallway, and Alike scrambles into a t-shirt and shorts. 
74   INT. ALIKE'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING                        74 
Arthur's hand is on the doorknob, a small tote flung over his shoulder. Audrey blocks the door, her hands on her hips. They both look up as Alike edges into the living room. 
AUDREY You see, that's exactly what I'm talking about?! Get over here! 
ARTHUR Go back to bed! 
AUDREY No, you come tell your father what you told me! 
ARTHUR Don't drag her into this, Audrey! (to Alike) Go to your room, Alike. Your mom and I are having a discussion. 
AUDREY We are not discussing!! I wanna know right now-- 
ARTHUR Go to your room! 
AUDREY There!! You see!! 
ARTHUR You shut the hell up Audrey!! 
Arthur extends his arms toward Alike, his voice trembling. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) I know that's not true. You tell your mother right now, Alike. You tell her it isn't true!! 
Alike meets her father's eyes. 
ALIKE Dad-- 
ARTHUR Don't you lie now, you tell the truth!! 
ALIKE You already know. 
ARTHUR No, I don't know. You tell your mother it's just a phase. 
ALIKE It's not a phase! 
Arthur is stopped cold, his shoulders slump. 
AUDREY See, if you would've DONE SOMETHING!! 
ARTHUR (to Alike) What's wrong with you? 
ALIKE There's nothing wrong with me! 
AUDREY This is your fault!! If you had-- 
Arthur tears into Audrey, spittle flying. 
ARTHUR AUDREY WILL YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP!!! 
AUDREY                          ARTHUR DON'T YOU SCREAM AT ME!! You    This is NOT my fault!! Just should've been at home more     shut up and lemme talk! I'm often!! Why don't you DO        trying to fuckin' talk-- SOMETHING!!! 
ALIKE YEAH I'M GAY!! 
Arthur spasms as though he's been stabbed. Out of nowhere, Audrey's backhand pistons Alike to the ground. She raises her hand high and slaps it down hard on Alike's shoulders and arms. Alike yells. Arthur turns to stone. 
AUDREY Say it again! Say it again! 
Alike fends off Audrey's blows with her hands. She kicks angrily as Audrey towers over her. 
ALIKE I'm a lesbian! Yeah, I'm a dyke. 
AUDREY No you're not!!!!! 
Audrey's blows become more manic and vicious. Arthur wakes from his trance and tries to wrestle Audrey off of Alike. 
ARTHUR That's enough! Stop it! 
AUDREY Don't you say that! Let go! Don't you say that! 
ALIKE Get offa me!! 
AUDREY What? You a man now? YOU GON' FIGHT ME LIKE A MAN??!! 
Audrey swings and hits Alike with a nasty hook to the jaw, Alike's head snaps back and hits the floor. 
ARTHUR AUDREY STOP!!!! 
Arthur yanks Audrey off of Alike. Audrey directs her rage at him, pummeling his face and chest. 
AUDREY AND YOU TOO! YOU TOO! YOU TOO! OH GOD!! 
Tears stream down Arthur's face as Audrey shakes free and aims one last blow at his face. 
AUDREY (CONT'D) YOU SAY IT'S NOT TRUE!!! 
76   INT. LAURA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                              76 
Click-clack. Click-clack. The rattle of circuit breakers echo through the bare darkness of Laura's small apartment. 
Arthur stops talking but his head remains bowed. An awkward silence ensues. Audrey and Sharonda look up at him still holding hands. 
AUDREY Amen! 
ARTHUR Amen. 
Audrey switches to an overly cheery auto-pilot mode, babbling to no one in particular. 
AUDREY I got this recipe from a magazine. Supposed to be very good. And you see I made those green beans you like. Sharonda pass the rice please. 
Sharonda, staring at her father doesn't reach for the bowl. 
SHARONDA Dad. You know where she is. 
83   EXT. LAURA'S ROOFTOP - WEEKS LATER                         83 
Alike and Laura sit at the edge of the roof sharing a quart of mint chocolate chip ice cream. Sunset paints the cityscape pink and orange. The faint cadence of children playing drifts in and out on a fickle breeze. Alike's wounds are healing and she seems happy. The friends exchange wordless smiles and soak in the peacefulness around them. 
Laura hears a noise at the door and gets up to investigate. Arthur is standing in the doorway. Laura calls out to Alike. Alike looks up and the smile fades from her face. Arthur tries to move around Laura, but Laura stares him down. Laura looks back at Alike. Alike considers, then carefully nods. Laura steps out of the way and watches Arthur pass. 
Alike rises to face her father. She stands tall, her weight is centered. Arthur struggles to find her eyes, and she turns away from him. Distant playground voices fill the pause. 
EXT. LAURA'S ROOFTOP - WEEKS LATER 
Alike sits at the edge of the roof writing in her notebook. Laura swings open the door and Alike looks back in greeting, her smile fading as Arthur appears behind her. Laura motions to Alike. Alike considers, then carefully nods. Laura steps aside and watches Arthur pass. 
Alike wanders to the edge of the roof, Arthur follows. Distant playground voices fill the pause. 
ALIKE Where's Mom? 
ARTHUR She...your mother couldn't make it. 
Alike shakes her head and peers into the rusty skyline. Arthur slumps his hands in his pockets and edges closer. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) Remember our old place? Waaay out in Queens? It was our first apartment, we were so proud. Had all those trees around it? In October, the whooole block would be covered with leaves. You remember. 
Alike makes no sign. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) You couldnt've been more than 2 years old. And when the wind would blow, all those leaves would come rushing down the street at us and you thought they were alive. You'd get so scared. You'd cry and you'd scream and beg for us to pick you up. I would try and tell you "they're only leaves, baby" and make you stay on the ground. But you were so afraid and you cried so hard, your mother would always pick you up. She always picked you up. 
Arthur is silent beneath the weight of his memory. He dares a glance over at Alike. 
ARTHUR (CONT'D) `Member how we used to-- 
ALIKE I've been accepted into a early college program. Starts in the Spring. Berkeley. 
ARTHUR California's a long way away-- 
ALIKE Ten weeks writing boot camp, workshops. Then I can start summer semester. 
ARTHUR We can talk about that. Okay? 
ALIKE I need you to meet with my guidance counselor. Sign the paperwork so I can graduate early. 
ARTHUR I'm sorry, alright? I'm sorry I let her hurt you-- 
ALIKE I need to know now if you'll sign the papers. Yes or no? 
ARTHUR Can you forgive me? 
ALIKE Yes or no? 
ARTHUR You can always come back home. Things are gonna be different, I promise you-- 
Alike holds Arthur's hand, stopping him. 
ALIKE Dad, I'm not running. I'm choosing. 
Arthur's heart breaks, he gasps back a sob. 
ALIKE (CONT'D) I'm not going back home. 
ARTHUR I know. (beat) Okay. 
