THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC 
Written by 
Carl Theodor Dreyer & Joseph Delteil 
Translated by 
Oliver Stallybrass 
At the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris it is possible to see one of the most famous documents in the history of the world - the official record of the trial of Joan of Arc. 
The Bibliothèque Nationale's original record of the trial of Joan of Arc is shown on the screen. An invisible hand turns over the manuscript pages. 
... If you turn over the pages, yellow with age, which contain the account of her martyrdom ... 
Page after page is shown of this unique document with its lines as straight as arrows, its marginal annotations, and the naïve miniature drawings for which the notaries have found time and space. 
... you will find Joan herself ... not the military genius who inflicted on the enemy defeat after defeat, but a simple and natural young girl ... who died for her country. 
The last pages are turned. Then the picture disappears and gives way to the first scene of the film, which shows 
1   The prison, where Joan is sitting, praying. The flagstones, the floor in Joan's cell. We see two straws and a hand, Joan's hand, which lays the straws on the floor in the form of a cross. 
2   Scenes from the church are shown: the chalice is brought out. 
3   In the prison we see Joan kneeling before   her straw cross - this most fragile and exalted of crosses.   She prays in ecstatic joy, at one moment bending right   forward so that her forehead touches the flagstones, the next   moment kneeling with her hands folded and her eyes raised   to heaven as if she saw beings visible only to her. From time   to time she mutters a short prayer. 
4   THE CHURCH 
9    Every face turns towards the entrance. They all see Joan for the first time. It is so quiet in the chapel that you can hear the grating noise of the chains round Joan's ankles. 
10   Joan comes forward. Through the pointed, colored windows the sunlight falls obliquely into the room in long shafts. Suddenly Joan finds herself in the middle of one of these shafts and stops for a moment. She becomes aware that every eye is turned towards her; she sees that they are hard, cold and uncomprehending. For a few seconds it seems as if she is going to collapse, overcome by the cold, remorseless atmosphere. On one side a completely human, simple, young country girl; on the other the flower of this century's talents, learned doctors, the fine fruits of the university, every prodigy in Christendom ... the instruments of reason - and of death. The personification on one side of innocence, on the other of magnificence. The terrible, relentless way in which they look at this girl in man's clothes, all these bishops, all these ascetics and members of orders with their newly cropped tonsures! These learned gentlemen regard her man's shoes and short hair as something loathsome and indecent. They believe as one man that it will be all easy matter to get the upper hand over this child. 
11   With a harsh movement Cauchon orders Joan over to the seat for the accused. 
12   She remains standing for a moment, drooping under the heavy burden of her chains. Then she sits down. Her face is pale and marked with grief and suffering. She lets her eyes wander over these rows of men in clerical garb - alone and unaided she must battle with them to save her name and her life. She leans towards Massieu and says a few quiet words to him as if to remind him of some promise. Massieu says to Cauchon: 
The accused begs humbly for leave to go to confession ... 
The bishop, who is engaged in thumbing through some documents which one of the prelates, Loiseleur, has just brought him, discusses the request briefly with the Inquisitor, and replies that he is obliged to deny her this favor because of her indecent dress. 
13   Then he opens the session and orders Joan to take the oath. With a gesture he indicates that the Bible is to be fetched and placed in front of Joan. She kneels, folds her hands over the book and recites the oath: 
I swear by the Holy Gospels to speak the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, concerning the mission which has been entrusted to me by the King of Heaven. 
14   There is a hush in the room. At this moment, when everything is quiet, a small door opens, giving direct access to the castle from the chapel. It is Warwick, the English governor and general, who enters. The respect shown to the new arrival by some of the soldiers in his vicinity suggests that he is a person of some importance. As the Commander-in-Chief of the English army of occupation he is the real, though unrecognized, driving force behind the trial. He has come for the purpose of speeding things up, but he keeps in the background - like an accomplished butler who supervises from a distance and sees that everything is proceeding smoothly. For the moment he remains standing just inside the door; presently he comes further forward and is hidden by columns. At one point we see him in conversation with Loiseleur. 
15   Joan has sat down again, and the hearing begins. Cauchon asks Joan her name. She answers: 
At home I am called Jeannette ... Here they call me Joan! 
16   Cauchon asks her age. Joan thinks and counts on her fingers: 
Nineteen ... I think. 
17   Cauchon, after smiling to his neighbor, asks: 
Can you say Our Father? 
So you believe that God hates the English? 
Joan does not immediately understand the question, and the examining judge has to repeat it. Then Joan gives one of her brilliant, inspired answers: 
I know not whether God loves or hates the English ... 
21   Disappointment on the judges' faces. Joan continues, with a strength which suddenly reveals a new side of her character, and turning towards the English soldiers: 
But I know for certain that the English will all be driven out of France ... 
Commotion and protests among the soldiers: why should Joan be allowed to insult England? But Joan continues inflexibly: 
... except for those who are going to die here! 
The soldiers are furious. They can no longer contain themselves. One of them makes a movement towards the accused. Massieu leaps to her defense. But Cauchon intervenes and orders silence; he has to use all his authority to restore order among the judges. The hearing continues. 
22   Cauchon asks: 
You have told how Saint Michael appeared to you ... how did you greet him? 
Joan explains that she has always greeted Saint Michael in the way one should greet a saint. One of the judges tells her to show how she greeted Saint Michael. 
23   With touching simplicity Joan kneels, goes through the motion of taking off her cap, and bows reverently before the imagined saint. She gets up again, while the judges talk together. 
24   Cauchon continues: 
In what form did he reveal himself? 
Joan does not immediately grasp the question. Half the judges shout to one another. 
Why are you wearing men's clothes? 
Joan refuses several times to answer and remains sitting motionless, stiff as a ramrod. The judge says: 
Are you willing to wear a woman's dress? 
30   Massieu leans towards her and advises her to accept this suggestion, which he thinks must be very easy for her to do. But Joan looks at him with the air of one treasuring a great secret, and says no to the judge. When the judge presses her to tell him why she refuses, she answers: 
When I have completed the task which God has entrusted to me, then I will wear women's clothes again. 
Whispering among the judges - 
31   An indication that another trap is being prepared. Then one of the judges says: 
So it is God who has commanded you to go about in men's clothes? 
Joan answers unhesitatingly: 
Yes! 
A smile of triumph spreads from face to face among Joan's judges. 
32   The Promoter, Jean d'Estivet, complacently makes some notes. Then he leans forward over his desk, smiles and asks in an insincere tone of voice: 
And what reward do you hope to obtain from the Lord? 
33   Joan, whose expression is that of a saint, folds her hands on her breast and raises her eyes to heaven: 
The salvation of my soul! 
40   Paul Jorge [the name of one of the actors] prepares to rise and ask the meaning of this incident. 
41   Cauchon stops him with a movement, and gives the order for the session to continue. He asks Joan: 
Has God promised you anything? 
Joan gives an absent-minded nod. Cauchon presses her to tell him what it is that God has promised. 
Can you not tell us what it is that God has promised you? 
Cauchon asks with his most ingratiating smile, but Joan shakes her head. Cauchon tries to persuade her: 
You must tell us. 
But Joan declines to answer: 
That has nothing to do with your trial!** 
42   Cauchon maintains the contrary, and Joan tells him to ask the assembly. Cauchon turns to the judges and asks: 
Has this question any bearing on the trial? 
He orders those who consider that it has to raise their hands. Nearly every hand goes up. Then it is the turn of those who take the opposite view. Ladvenu is the only one to raise his hand, but when he sees that he is entirely alone he takes it down again. 
43   And Cauchon is able to say to Joan that, since the relevance of the question to the trial has been unanimously agreed, she is obliged to answer. He repeats his question: 
What has God promised you? 
Joan does not answer. 
48   THE PRISON 
Massieu has brought Joan back. The door closes behind her. Overcome by fatigue, she sits on her bed. In front of the judges she has restrained her weeping. Now that she is alone, the pent-up tears pour from her eyes. 
49   THE CHAPEL 
The conference is still going on. Loiseleur is dictating to the notaries. At intervals one of the other judges interposes a word or a suggestion. 
50   THE PRISON 
Joan is still shaking with sobs. Suddenly she sees a cross slowly forming on the floor close to her feet. It is the shadow of the window grating. She knows this cross and loves it. It always comes when she is feeling lonely and unhappy. She has no doubt that it is God who sends her solace and encouragement in this way. She dries her eyes and produces from a hiding-place a piece of handiwork, with which she occupies her hands and her thoughts when she is not before the judges. It is a crown of plaited straw - very simple, pretty and childlike. Soon she is completely absorbed in this work, to which she devotes all her love. We see the Joan from Domrémy who 'is second to no woman in Rouen, when it comes to spinning or sewing.' From time to time she looks at the cross on the ground. 
51   The conference in the chapel. Loiseleur finishes his dictating. The notary reads back to him. 
52   THE PRISON 
We see only Joan's hands which are occupied in plaiting her crown. The shot is taken in such a way that the crown and the cross on the ground can be seen together. 
53   The conference in the chapel. The notary finishes his reading aloud and what he has read is approved. Meanwhile the secretary has returned. He hands a document to Warwick, who passes it round. It goes from hand to hand, and finally to the notary. 
54   In the little ante-room leading to Joan's prison. The soldiers are playing with a small English dog. An old serving woman comes with food for Joan in an earthenware bowl. One of the soldiers seizes the bowl; he selects the best piece of meat and gives it to the dog. The latter swallows the meat and licks the soldier's fingers. With the same fingers he picks out another piece of meat and gives this also to the dog. 
55   A short scene from the conference, featuring two documents. A hand - that of the notary - is engaged in copying the signature from one document to the other. 
56   THE PRISON 
The soldier comes in with Joan's food, followed by the dog. Two other soldiers appear in the door, for these rascals never lose an opportunity of tormenting their victim. As the soldier hands Joan the food, his eye falls on her ring. He demands it from her, but she implores him to let her keep it: it is her mother's ring. But the soldier is determined to have it, even if he has to use force. He calls to the other two soldiers to come and help him, and puts the bowl of food on the ground in such a position that the dog naturally takes advantage of it. 
57   Just as the first soldier has finally succeeded in forcing the ring from Joan's finger Loiseleur appears in the open door. He appears to be filled with genuine indignation at the sight of the ill treatment to which the three rascals are subjecting Joan. The soldiers have turned round. They are afraid. Loiseleur threatens them and quickly goes up to the soldier who has wrested Joan's ring from her. The soldier is compelled to hand over the ring to Loiseleur, who thereupon orders the three ruffians out of the cell. 
65   Joan confesses her sins like a schoolchild reciting a lesson. Cauchon and his attendants follow the scene attentively from the secret room. With a ledger on his lap the notary takes down everything that Joan says, but it is clear that she is saying nothing of any significance, for all the skill with which Loiseleur presents his questions. So it is not long before Loiseleur gives her a sugary smile and rattles off the absolution. He makes the sign of the cross over her and stands up. 
66   Cauchon and his confidants have left their hiding-place and now come into the cell. The soldiers bring in chairs and a table for the scribe. The judges group themselves in a circle round Joan, some sitting, others standing. Loiseleur places himself behind Cauchon. In addition to the judges, Massieu also is present. 
67   Cauchon gestures to Lemaître who says to Joan: 
You profess to be a daughter of God? ... 
Joan agrees with a nod, and Lemaître continues: 
Then why will you not say Our Father? 
Joan sits motionless for a moment. The judges look at her with watchful eyes. A perceptible change comes over Joan. Her expression is transfigured. A heavenly light spreads over her face, she folds her hands and begins to pray. The sight of this small and helpless woman, turning to God in captivating innocence, makes an involuntary impression on some of the judges. The gentle Massieu in particular can hardly restrain his tears. 
Joan has said the Our Father. Jean d'Estivet is thus obliged to eliminate this important point from his charge-sheet. 
68   Lemaître continues with the hearing: 
Has God told you that you will be released from your prison? 
Joan smiles and gives Loiseleur a secret, confidential glance. His eyes gleam back at her in complicity. She answers: 
Yes ... and by means of a great victory! 
69   The judges are astonished and cross-examine her. They ask her to explain precisely what she knows, and how she has come to know it. But Joan answers: 
I know that God will soon come to my help in a miraculous way! 
70   Jean d'Estivet hastens to write down this important answer. With great secrecy he grips Loiseleur's hand in gratitude. Cauchon, Lemaître and some of the other judges plot together. 
75   But then the honest and fair-minded Massieu moves convulsively forward and shouts: 
Don't answer, Joan - this question is too dangerous... 
Cauchon, enraged, rises in all his majesty and bellows with the full power of his lungs: 
Be quiet, will you, in the Devil's name! 
Massieu defends himself. He explains that nobody has the right to ask such a question of an accused person, least of all when the accused is a young girl standing on her own with nobody to advise her. But Cauchon will tolerate no insubordination. Massieu is forced to kneel there and then and ask for pardon, and must consider himself fortunate not to share de Houppeville's fate. 
76   When peace is restored Cauchon gives orders for the hearing to continue. Lemaître, still seething, asks: 
Answer now! Are you in a state of grace? 
Joan opens her mouth to answer, but appears to have second thoughts and remains silent. She looks in the direction of Loiseleur, who is apparently absorbed in his own reflection. He is abandoning her to her fate. In his view she is a certain prey; whether she answers yes or no, she is doomed to perdition. But now that Joan has collected her thoughts again, she gives this admirable answer: 
If I am not, may God put me there! And if I am, may God so keep me! 
77   Joan has broken the chain of beaters. She realizes this and smiles. But her judges, who have sat there greedily waiting for the prey to fall into the net so that they can hurl themselves on it - these judges now sit not knowing what to say or where to look. They gaze at each other in speechless amazement. Some of them unconsciously make the sign of the cross. Loiseleur is beyond doubt the most disconcerted. All of them feel that they have suffered a defeat. This battle is lost; now they must try to win the next one. A short conference takes place. The judges rise to go. 
78   Joan throws herself at Cauchon's feet, embraces his knees and begs him: 
I implore you to let me come to Mass! 
Cauchon thrusts her away so brutally that she hits the bed. She remains lying on the floor. 
79   Loiseleur has hastily stolen over to Cauchon and is whispering something in his ear. Cauchon's face lights up. He whispers to the others, letting them in on Loiseleur's plan. Then he approaches Joan and says to her in his mildest voice: 
Joan, if you were allowed to go to Mass now ... 
Joan cries out and collapses. 
The judges watch her for a moment. Ladvenu full of sympathy. Then Cauchon turns to Massieu and says: 
Go and prepare the instruments of torture! 
Massieu can hardly believe his ears. Are they really going to torture Joan? But a look from Cauchon prevents him from saying anything. He goes out through the door, giving Joan a look of compassion as he does so. 
82   The soldiers, who have witnessed the examination, escort him out, and in the ante-room they reproach and abuse him: 
Why did you make signs to her and give her good advice? 
They threaten to throw him into the Seine if this happens again. 
83   THE PRISON 
The judges leave Joan, Loiseleur being the last to go. Before he leaves the cell he approaches Joan and pats her hair sympathetically: 
Do not grieve ... place your trust in God, he will not forget you! 
Joan turns her tear-stained face to him; full of gratitude for his kind words, she kisses his hand. Then Loiseleur goes out. 
Joan is left in solitude for a mere moment, before the soldiers enter in order to bait her in their usual manner. Joan takes no notice of them. One of them tickles her in the ear with a straw. Joan gets up laboriously and sits down on the bed. One of the soldiers suddenly catches sight of the straw crown. He laughs, picks it up, turns it round in his hands, and finally places it on Joan's head. Outraged by this form of sacrilege, she removes it and puts it on the bed; but the soldier replaces the crown on her head, at the same time giving her several slaps in the face. He steps back and peeps through the hollow of his hand, as if to see her better. 
84   The other soldiers roar with laughter and say in mocking tones: 
She looks just like a daughter of God, eh? 
He takes an arrow from his quiver, and places it in Joan's hands. She lets him do this without resistance. 
Suppose we were to tell you now that your visions did not - as you believe - come from God ... 
Joan looks up quickly, as if unable to believe her ears. She searches the faces of her judges, one after the other. Cauchon continues: 
... but are sent to you by the Devil, who wants to bring your soul to perdition! 
Joan sits for a moment, deep in thought. Then a smile spreads across her face. Almost unconsciously she shakes her head - and smiles again. Assuredly the Devil has no power over her and is not going to obtain it either. 
91   One of the judges asks: 
If the Devil appeared in the form of an angel, how could you be certain whether it was a good or a bad angel? 
For a moment the smile fades from Joan's lips. She does not answer. Cauchon looks at her for a long time and then says: 
It is Satan to whom you have knelt, not Saint Michael! 
Joan finds this idea so comical that she has to laugh. She cannot help herself; it is not a provocative laugh, only the spontaneous laughter of a healthy person. But Cauchon strikes the table in anger. Joan stops laughing. Cauchon gazes fixedly at her for some time without saying a word. There is complete silence in the room. 
92   Cauchon gets up, approaches Joan in a dignified manner, leans towards her and says: 
How can you believe that it is God who guides your steps when you see the abyss opening before your feet? 
Joan is serious again. Cauchon continues, pronouncing the words with steadily increasing emphasis: 
Do you not understand that it is the Devil who has turned your head 
He pauses briefly, then continues: 
... who has deceived you ... 
I would rather die than deny God's acts. 
Enraged by Joan's pig-headedness, Cauchon loses patience. He orders Joan to be put to torture. While the executioners are taking care of her the judges gather together in a group. 
One instrument of torture after another is displayed for Joan's benefit. With an executioner at her side she is conducted past the various appliances. She looks at each one for a long time, trembling with fear. Occasionally the executioner demonstrates with a gesture how one of the instruments is operated. They are trying to frighten Joan out of her senses. 
When the executioners have completed their preparations and the torture can begin, Cauchon goes up to Joan and invites her once again to sign the declaration. She refuses and says: 
Even though you torture my soul out of my body I shall confess nothing 
Cauchon gives orders for the torture to begin. Joan lets out a scream of pain. She is seen to raise one hand. They all think she is indicating her readiness to sign. A judge holds the document out to her, but Joan thrusts it away so violently that it falls on the ground. Somebody picks it up. And Joan says vehemently: 
... and if I should confess anything, I will afterwards declare that it was only by using force that you made me confess. 
96    Joan collapses. The executioner bends over her. She has fainted. 
97    The executioner and Massieu carry her out while the judges confer on what procedure to adopt next. 
98    THE PRISON 
Massieu has gone on ahead to notify Joan's keeper, who sends a man out with a message for Warwick. Massieu prepares Joan's bed and takes the little crown in his hands; he looks at it for a moment, then flings it into a corner. Enter the executioner and his assistant, carrying Joan between them. They lay her on the bed and go out. Before Massieu leaves the cell, he gives one of the soldiers instructions to keep an eye on Joan. 
99    THE TORTURE-CHAMBER 
The judges confer. Cauchon thinks the torture should continue, and asks the judges to vote on this proposal, but only one of them is in favor of continuing. This is Loiseleur, who says: 
It is medicine for her soul! 
Ladvenu gives Loiseleur a look of hostility. 
Meanwhile Warwick has gone from the sick-bed over to the door. 
103   Enter Loiseleur with the news that Cauchon is waiting in the adjoining room. Warwick is about to go when one of the doctors approaches him and says: 
She has a fever, we shall have to bleed her ... 
Warwick shows signs of unease, and asks whether this is really necessary. 
The doctor insists that it is. Warwick consents, adding: 
But take good care that she does not do away with herself ... she is very crafty. 
104   The doctor turns back to the bed to prepare for the blood- letting. Warwick accompanies Loiseleur into the adjoining room, where Cauchon and some of the other judges are waiting. Cauchon enquires after Joan. Warwick answers in a manner which cannot be misunderstood: 
She is very weak... 
The two men exchange glances. Cauchon and the judges have come to extort a confession from Joan. 'whether because they were afraid of her escaping in this way and dying without having made a recantation, or because her weakened physical condition raised hopes of her soul being easier to purchase.' 
Cauchon explains to Warwick how he wants to proceed. Loiseleur joins in the discussion and proposes a drastic remedy. Cauchon approves Loiseleur's idea and tells Massieu and another young monk to fetch the holy vessel. 
105   While this is going on, scenes are shown from the sick-bed and Joan's blood-letting. One of the doctors goes out in order to report that the blood-letting is finished. The patient is better and can undergo examination without danger. 
Cauchon, Loiseleur and some of the other clerics come into the cell. Warwick remains with the doctors in the adjoining room. 
106   Joan is lying with closed eyes. Cauchon goes over to the bed and bends over Joan with a benevolent, paternal expression. He touches her on the temples. Joan opens her feverish eyes. He asks her in a friendly manner how she is. She makes a movement with her head and at the same time gives a feeble smile. Her eyes shift from Cauchon to the others; what is going to happen now? She is evidently taken by surprise. 
107   Cauchon guesses her thoughts, calms her and says: 
We have come to give you comfort and strength ... 
Blasphemy! She is possessed! This is monstrous! 
The judges huddle together in their agitation and terror, and gradually withdraw. 
122   And now Joan falls back on her bed, exhausted. She groans and gasps for breath. She wipes the sweat from her forehead with her sleeve. For a moment there is silence. Only her groans can be heard. The judges look at each other, not knowing what to do. Then they turn to Cauchon who is pondering. It is he who breaks the silence with the following words addressed to Massieu: 
There is nothing for it ... give the executioner his orders! 
While the doctors who have entered during the preceding scene are attending to Joan, the judges leave the room. 
123   By the time the judges come out into the castle yard, there are already rumors of what has happened in the cell. The inhabitants of the castle crowd round to hear the news and learn of the preparations now in hand for the penultimate act of the drama. From the castle yard a small door leads out to the churchyard, which lies outside the castle walls. The judges make for the churchyard. 
124   THE PRISON 
Some soldiers have come with a stretcher. They lift Joan onto it and carry her out. 
125   THE CHURCHYARD 
One group of judges after another is seen moving forward to the spot from which they are to witness the impending ceremony. 
126   Joan, lying on the stretcher, is carried into the churchyard. 
127   The churchyard, which is surrounded by walls, is very big, but only a few graves can be seen in it. They are all covered with flat stones after the custom of the Middle Ages. In those days churchyards served as a meeting-place at certain festivals, and the judicial authorities of the Church often used them as a stage for important announcements and abjurations, which they wanted known to as many people as possible; they formed a theatrical setting, with graves and gravestones as sets. A stench of putrefaction arose from this earth filled with dead bodies. The poisonous smell of nothingness. The smell of stones, corpses and worms. Against the buttress of the church two platforms have been erected and covered with red velvet. On one of them the entire assembly of judges is sitting in state: Pierre Cauchon, the Inquisitor, and a host of jurists in scarlet caps and purple skull-caps. The other platform is for Joan. 
128   Escorted by English soldiers, Joan's little procession comes slowly to this place. 
129   Everywhere in the churchyard, and even on the walls, there are thousands of people, heads jostling. The great majority of them are favorably disposed towards Joan. When she is carried in, every neck is craned to catch a glimpse of her. For her part Joan tries to read her destiny in their faces. From the way they look at her she gets the impression that their feelings towards her are friendly. Joan, who for months has lived remote from this earth, is visibly moved. She smiles at the tiny flowers which greet her from the grass. She almost touches them with her hand and imagines that she is caressing them. But when she looks in the other direction, her eye falls on two gravediggers who are engaged in opening up an old grave. She sees the worms swarming in the skulls which are thrown up, and she is filled with the fear of death. Once more she ponders over the words which the members of the judicial body have addressed to her, and she thinks sadly of her fellow countrymen, who seem to have forsaken her completely. 
130   The tiny procession approaches the platform reserved for Joan. Loiseleur comes forward to meet the procession and assist her. She smiles happily at this man, whom she believes to be on her side. She is helped to a seat on a little stool. 
139   Thrown out of his stride by Joan's answer, the preacher embarks on a tirade, which Joan answers confidently; finally, not knowing how to respond, he shouts to Massieu: 
Make her be quiet! 
The spectators derive much derisive enjoyment from this little scene. 
Order has been restored on the platform. Massieu has persuaded Joan to keep quiet. The preacher is approaching his peroration. He points to the judges and declares they have proved incontestably that Joan has violated the Church's doctrines in deed as well as in word; and asks her if she has anything to say in answer to this. She reflects for a moment and, while the spectators stand on tiptoe to see what is happening, she rises to her feet and says: 
I alone am responsible for everything that I have said and done ... 
Joan draws a deep breath before continuing. All those standing round her gaze at her expectantly. Then she says: 
... If have done any wrong, I am to blame, and nobody else! 
140   She sits down calmly. Erard, however, is almost inclined to interpret her words as a declaration that she is now ready to recognize the error of her ways. He leans forward towards the notary, who hands her a paper. Several of the judges have come forward, also one of Warwick's secretaries. There is so much tumult and confusion round Joan that she has difficulty hearing. Sommaire explains: 
It is the abjuration ... 
Joan does not understand what this means. What is the meaning of 'abjure'? She turns to Erard to ask his advice. 
Explain it to her! 
Erard orders Massieu. The latter asks to be excused, but after glancing at Erard he does not dare to insist, and is obliged to advise Joan of the danger she will incur by refusing. He says to her: 
If you do not sign you will be burnt! 
141   Among the crowd thronging the place the word 'burnt' can be heard flying from mouth to mouth. Around Joan on the platform the air is filled with shouted words. Joan asks Massieu for advice; he tells her that when the Church advises her to sign she must do so. Once again she turns to Erard and asks him to tell her whether she must abjure. He answers: 
Either you sign - or you will go to the stake! 
You have done a good day's work today ... you have saved your soul! 
149   And he hurries away to give Cauchon the document. 
Among the spectators the tension is released in shouts of joy. But one or two English soldiers, who have seen Joan's smile, go up to her and shout at the priests around her: 
She has only made fools of you! 
The priests push them away. Cauchon, who has received the document, now gives a signal for Joan to come forward and hear her sentence of judgement. 
150   Joan descends from the platform, leaning on Massieu. In his enthusiasm one of the spectators forgets himself and bursts out: 
Long live the Maid! ... Long live France! 
Two soldiers turn abruptly, force their way through the crowd, seize the unfortunate man who has given vent to his patriotic feelings, and lead him away. 
151   Joan has come before her judges' great platform. Cauchon takes the document from his secretary and begins to read it aloud: 
In as much as you have at last renounced the error of your ways, we release you from excommunication from the Church ... 
Cauchon pauses for a moment. Joan stands before her judges with folded hands. A smile of gratitude is sketched on her face. She lowers her head to conceal her joy. Then Cauchon continues: 
But in as much as you have rashly sinned we condemn you . .. 
Joan looks up with an expression of fear and surprise. Cauchon continues his reading: 
... to perpetual imprisonment, there to eat the bread of sorrow and drink the water of affliction 
Joan stands for a moment, dumbfounded. It is as if she cannot grasp the meaning of what she has just heard. She feels as if her heart is in her mouth. Her eyes have the expression of a hunted animal. Then she hides her face in her hands and weeps. Cauchon gives a sign for Joan to be led out. She staggers away, leaning on Massieu's arm. 
Ladvenu, choked by his feelings, is unable to speak. He makes a sign for Massieu to answer on his behalf. Massieu says: 
At the stake! 
A slight shudder passes over Joan's face, but in her soul there is no longer any struggle or doubt. 
165   Ladvenu, who has now regained his self-control, gives Massieu a quiet order. Massieu goes out hurriedly. When he has gone Ladvenu says: 
How can you still believe that you are sent by God? 
Joan smiles, as if she knows more than other men, and answers: 
His ways are not our ways! 
After a pause she adds: 
Yes, I am His child! 
Ladvenu, moved by this persistent faith, says presently: 
And the great victory? 
Joan looks at him as if amazed at his asking such a stupid question. She answers: 
My martyrdom ... 
Ladvenu nods. He looks at her as at a saint descended from heaven. Yet he cannot refrain from asking one more question: 
And your release? 
The fire! Get down! 
191   But she implores him urgently to continue right up to the end holding the cross raised before her eyes. 
192   The flames crackle and climb higher. 
193   Suddenly a deathly hush descends on the square. A dull silence. Only the crackle of the flames and the mumbled prayers of the priests can be heard. Oppressed by this stillness, some of the spectators fall on their knees, and others follow their example. Many of them light wax candles. 
194   The flames leap from one faggot to another ... they advance in little jumps over cavities and gaps in the fuel. Sparks fly, smoke whirls up; through the smoke, which occasionally conceals Joan, can be seen part of her 
195   Face, which is raised to heaven, and her mouth, which is whispering prayers. Then her eyes seek Christ, whom Ladvenu continues to hold up towards her; Christ who, like herself, is enveloped in smoke. 
196   Through the smoke she sees the executioner stirring the fire, 
197   And a soldier on his knees trying to get near enough to the bonfire to throw the martyr's crown on it. 
198   She also sees Massieu, who is sprinkling holy water on the bonfire from his stoup. 
199   Meanwhile the judges have risen. The clerics are not allowed to witness the actual execution, but their departure is in the nature of a flight. The eyes of most of them are filled with tears. They all cross themselves as they withdraw. 
200   The English soldiers force a way for them through the crowd, but as the priests approach the spectators the latter draw back of their own accord to avoid contact with them. On every face you can read contempt, in every quarter you can hear the traitors being taunted as such. 
201   Suddenly the first tongues of flame lick round Joan's feet. She squirms. The things of this earth are vanishing, and Joan's thoughts are now only of the King of Heaven. In spite of the pain and terror she does not forget her Christ - indeed it is as if, with every second that passes, she is coming steadily closer to Him. 
Jesus! 
she begins to scream in her long death-struggle. 
202   The weeping crowds repeat the name of Jesus. 
