PERFECT CREATURE 
Written by 
Glenn Standring 
SHOOTING SCRIPT 
14 May 2004 
1A EXT: PROLOGUE ON BLACK - NIGHT 
The screen is black, music evoking religion and danger begins. 
LILLY For three hundred years the great plagues have swept the earth. Diseases created from the experiments of the Alchemists. 
We see death tolls appear through this graphically. 
The plague - 5 million souls. Virulent Small Pox - 10 million. Mutated Influenza 30 Million Souls... 
Lilly Thinking they had discovered Gods secret code for life, the Alchemists experimented with genetic science. They had no idea what they had unleashed. 
We begin to see a strange medallion sweeping through smoke, slowly revealing itself. 
LILLY (CONT'D) (continuing) ...but there was also a miracle. One of these plagues helped nature create a new kind of being. At first they were called Nosferatu, or Vampire and were feared. But they were not supernatural monsters, just a better version of ourselves. They were the Brothers, and their religion and science helped sustain us against the plagues and influenzas that have ravaged Europe and the rest of the colonies. For 300 years our two races have lived in harmony. Until now... 
FADE UP: 
2 INT: DOCTORS SURGERY - DAY                                2 
We are very close on a bespectacled eye. It stares at us and then looks down. 
GENETIC DOCTOR (off) See here. This is what you need to look for. 
Cut to the object in the Genetic Doctors hand; it is like an x-ray, yet the image looks remarkably like a DNA profile. 
GENETIC DOCTOR (continuing; off) A genetic mutation, we all carry it. But we now know a virus activates it. 
We reveal the genetic Doctor, sitting at his desk, smoking a cigarette. The surgery and the clothes suggest the year, yet there are small things that are different, not what you'd expect to be around at this time. Standing next to him in the dusty haze of the room is a younger doctor; an apprentice who looks attentive. 
GENETIC DOCTOR (continuing) This Virus plays some unknown role in the birth the Brothers. Of course the mutation occurs very rarely these days. And only in males. 
The apprentice nods and then looks up. There is someone else in the room. A woman - who we now see is pregnant. There is something about her that suggests more a prisoner or psychiatric patient than a normal pregnant mother. 
GENETIC DOCTOR (continuing) Strange isn't? 
Apprentice   DOCTOR Strange? 
GENETIC DOCTOR That God would choose such humble vehicle for a miracle. The mothers invariably come from the slums, we don't know why. (to the woman) This is your 7th isn't it? 
We see the woman; she's like a hollow person, hardly aware of where she is. The Doctor shuffles papers. Finds what he wants. 
GENETIC DOCTOR (continuing) Yes, her first was successful, a Brother was born. Thereafter variously malformed offspring. We can only hope this one will be different. (to woman) You'll have to try harder this time. 
The woman now looks up. And tentatively speaks. 
WOMAN IN THE SURGURY Please... 
GENETIC DOCTOR What is it? 
WOMAN IN THE SURGURY Please... I want to keep my baby. They always take my babies away. 
GENETIC DOCTOR Don't be stupid woman! 
The woman drops her eyes. We see the Apprentice Doctor, almost pitying the poor woman. 
Apprentice DOCTOR (to woman) You won't have to worry. The Brotherhood will take him... 
We are closer on the woman now. Tears begin to glisten in her eyes as we drift closer to her. 
Apprentice DOCTOR (continuing; off) ...raise him in the church, teach him. He's special. You should be proud. It's a blessing really, he'll want for nothing. Not like the rest of us? 
A drain pipe, leaking. 
Cut to 
Silus once more. This time we can hear "plop, plop, plop." 
Cut to 
A pool of water. Then "plop" as a drop hits it. The drop is not water. The drop is a red liquid, thick, now dispersing in the water. And another drop, "plop." High speed CRANE UP from 
this pool, up up the side of a building to end on a FACE in the shadows. We can see reflective, gleaming eyes. And a mouth, with blood dripping from it. 
Cut to 
Silus again. His eyes flicking open; we see the footpath reflected in those perfect light gray eyes. 
Music - brooding, ancient - begins to hum as Silus slowly rises, as if his limbs have the power to make him float, so perfect and powerful are they. A small smile has appeared on his lips; it is the smile of a man who knows that something very dark, something very dangerous, is close by. 
Slowly his hand slips into his jacket. He holds it there, watching, surveying the street immediately ahead of him for the slightest movement. He sees it. On the wall of an old Georgian Mansion across the road, a shape on the side of the wall, almost imperceptible, hidden in the shadows and brickwork. A CREATURE on the side of the wall. 
Silus begins to move forward now, everything in perfect shining silver slow motion. As he moves forward he pulls a gun from his jacket - it is silver, organic and glass, art nouveaux styling - and points it ahead of him as he glides forward. 
The creature on the wall senses the movement coming towards it, moves a little and then, like a spider, scrambles along the side of the wall, heading away from us. 
Silus fires. A bullet of silver explodes from the gun, seems almost to hang in the air for a moment, reflecting the moon above, before hurtling at high speed towards its target. 
The shell explodes the wall next to the creature, who stops suddenly in the light so that we can see it. 
A man. With reflective animal eyes and blood on his purple lips. And teeth; the teeth of a vampire. This creature immediately dives from the wall to the ground, just avoiding another two bullets that crash into the wall. 
LA as the man falls directly towards the camera. 
Silus now rushes forward, holding his gun out in front of him; he moves forward gracefully. He can see the man skillfully climbing up an adjacent derelict building. Silus tries to follow but his way is blocked by wire and fencing. He raises his gun towards the man once more, but he is gone. 
Close on Silus' enigmatic face. Those eyes. And in his mouth, two perfectly pointed fangs. 
Cut to 
6 EXT: CAFE - NIGHT                                          6 
We are outside a cafe; the cafe is a warm glow against the cold night. We see past the fine falling rain - through the large glass window that has swirling silver art nouveaux designs lacing across it - to a table inside, by the window, where two pristinely dressed men sit. 
Cut to 
7 INT: CAFE - NIGHT                                          7 
We are inside. Closer on the two men. One is SILUS. The other man is AUGUSTUS; the man we saw in the operation theatre before. Augustus has hardly aged at all. 
AUGUSTUS The girl? 
We see Silus. He remembers. 
Cut to 
8 INT: ROOM, FLASHBACK - NIGHT                               8 
Flashback from Silus' memory; a dead girl on a bed, blood splattered across her pillow. 
Cut to 
9 INT: CAFE - NIGHT                                           9 
Silus' face. Pull out to reveal we're back in the café. 
SILUS 
It is taken care of. 
AUGUSTUS This is good. 
SILUS Augustus. We failed this girl. We asked her to help us catch him, and then we failed her. 
12 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, TENEMENT, HALLWAY - LATER             12 
The hallway again. The other two men we saw entering at the beginning are talking to the woman with the mop. One of the men is taking notes. 
We pan to the office, to see Lilly and Jones standing before the Slum Landlord, who is now wrapped in a towel and sitting in a chair. 
SLUM LANDLORD I don't know nothing about it. I give 'em out. Make sure everyone gets 'em. 
JONES That's a lie! We know you've been trading influenza vaccine in the workhouses! 
Another man now approaches Lilly. 
FRANK Lil'. I think you should see this. 
13 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, TENEMENT, HALLWAY - CONTINUING        13 
Halfway down the hall there is a door, Frank opens it displaying a set of stairs leading down. 
FRANK I'd use the mask if I were you. 
Lilly pulls a dark surgical-type mask over her face, then slowly moves down the steps into the oblivion below. 
14 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, TENEMENT BASEMENT - CONTINUING        14 
Cut between Lilly's POV and her face, her eyes glimmering in the sub-light as she moves down the stairs very carefully. 
And finally the horror is revealed. In this basement there are 10 or 12 people, lying on the floor. Most of them are silent, but a couple moan. One, a woman, pleads to Lilly. 
WOMAN IN THE BASEMENT Help me. Please help. 
The woman extends her arm. It is covered in sweat; grimy. The glands at the side of the woman's neck are distended and swollen, her eyes bloodshot. 
WOMAN IN THE BASEMENT (continuing) Please. I'm sick. Please. 
The room is a version of hell. Lilly's eyes glisten. 
Cut to 
15 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, TENEMENT OFFICE - CONTINUING           15 
Jones has the Slum Landlord by the throat. 
JONES You're a fucking liar! 
SLUM LANDLORD No, no, I swear it, I gave 'em their boosters, both of 'em. I'm a responsible landlord, I swear to god. There must've been something wrong with them vaccines. 
Lilly stares at the Slum Landlord; shock in her face, and anger. 
JONES This is a civil health violation! You're going to the hell house for this. You can forget lovely Doris here where you're going. 
We see the woman who was screaming before, the prostitute; she makes an obscene gesture at Jones. As this is going on Frank and the other man we've seen are tearing the place apart, looking for something. They don't find it and Frank's look tells Lilly so. 
Lilly's face is a mask. She is watching the Slum Landlord very carefully. He keeps looking down; strangely, nervously. 
SLUM LANDLORD I don't know what you're on about. I've done nothing, I swear to god, I've done nothing. 
Lilly lets her eyes drift down, all the way down to the chair legs, which rock unevenly on the floor. Lilly is staring at the scratched, worn floor boards which MOVE. 
Cut to 
Frank, prizing back the floor boards. Jones restrains the Slum Landlord. Lilly watches. Frank pulls the floor boards away easily. We see that hidden in the floor cavity are packets of something. Frank pulls them out. 
Rips one of the plastic bags open. In it are packets with the words "Jamestown Borough - Civilian Influenza Vaccination." Frank holds it up for Lilly to see. 
The Slum Landlord is now looking three ways at once. 
Lilly slowly begins to approach the Slum Landlord. 
LILLY It is my pleasure to inform you that you are under arrest for trafficking influenza vaccine. 
SLUM LANDLORD I want my lawyer. 
20A INT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, CHILDS BEDROOM - CONTINUING         20A 
Lilly approaches a room and we see inside it. It is empty apart from a stripped bed and some boxes. 
Lilly flips the lid on one of the boxes. She picks up a toy; a pink fairy princess with wings, the paint on its face worn. 
Lilly winds a key and the wings of the doll flutter, accompanied by the whining sound of the internal mechanics. 
We see Lilly's face as she stares at the doll. Emotion fights to claw its way out from under her skin, but she doesn't let it. 
Then in the distance we hear a child's cries. It almost sounds like memories wafting through the air, but the stamping of feet from the apartment above makes it plain that the noises come from there; the sound of children playing. 
Cut to 
21 INT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT                     21 
Lilly enters her bedroom. The place is a mess. She sits on the bed. She picks up a framed photo which sits on a sideboard next to the bed. It shows Lilly, a man - Lilly's age - and a child of 5 years who looks a lot like Lilly. She stares at the child. We hear the sound of rain pounding against the window of the bedroom. 
22 EXT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT                     22 
Pull out to reveal the exterior window. We can see through the window into Lilly's apartment again, see Lilly lying down, hugging the photo. The rain has become a light mist. 
23 EXT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, STREET - NIGHT                         23 
We are close on a poster. It shows a perfect face, serenely beaming out; it could be Silus or Augustus, except this man is dressed in religious regalia, like a priest. The poster says "The Brotherhood loves you. You are divine." We begin to crane off the poster which is revealed to be stuck on a lamp post. The street is seething, the slums of Jamestown. 
A young boy, perhaps seven; spiked up hair, face covered in grime, grime from dragging himself up in this hellish place. He carries a bag filled with the detritus he's picked from the rubbish bins of the rich. He wears a distinctive red t-shirt that is several sizes too big. He moves along the street, avoiding a disinterested passersby. As he passes an alley he hears something. An animal-like growl. He stops. 
Down the alley he can see two figures. One is a male. He is clutching another clothed figure; female. 
KID Hey?! Hey! 
At that instant the man turns to the boy. There, half seen in the slick shadows, the most piercing eyes, a bloody mouth, with fangs, hissing. The creature drops the woman and scales the sheer wall of the alleyway; clutching various handholds, up four flights, then gone. 
The kid, frightened, now makes to run off but bangs into a passerby. The man grabs the kid roughly. 
MAN IN THE STREET Where are you going in such a hurry my little ruffian? Pilfering by the look of you? 
The kid struggles and the Man now sees the shape of the woman in the alleyway, slumped to the ground. 
MAN IN THE STREET (continuing) What's going on here? What'd you do to her? 
KID Don't, I didn't do nothing. It was a Brother. It was a Brother did it. 
The man moves forward, dragging the kid. And he sees the woman there, deathly white in the alley. Dead eyes staring. 
MAN IN THE STREET Oh dear god... 
Cut to 
24 INT: NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY                           24 
We track past a sign that says "Museum of Spiritual Selection and Alchemistry." In the distance we can see a group of people in the hazy light. 
Cut to 
Augustus - the man we saw with Silus earlier - sitting on a chair surrounded by various objects. At his feet are a gaggle of school children, aged around ten; affluent looking, human. Augustus points to a strange, ancient looking glass apparatus. 
AUGUSTUS 300 years ago, with these simple instruments, the alchemist Guiseppi De Angelo discovered what we today call genetic science. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) He deciphered that the Brothers were a new race of beings, sent by god, to serve and protect you. 
We see the faces of the children, rapt. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) De Angelo formed the church of the Brotherhood. He was a great great man, but there were others, bad men, who took what De Angelo had discovered and experimented without concern for the results. The science of genetics and all its power has been banned ever since. Who can tell me what came from these bad experiments? 
One child puts his hand up. Behind the child, in the distance, Augustus now sees Silus approaching; Silus obviously wants to talk to Augustus. Augustus points to the child while looking at Silus. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) Yes. 
CHILD All the bad things. Like bad germs and flu. 
JONES (continuing) There's a kid who saw it, down there. 
Lilly sees the red shirted street urchin in the distance being talked to by two uniformed policemen. 
JONES (continuing) Says it was a Brother. And they've got another fellow, that's all who saw it. 
Lilly nods. 
LILLY Alright, we'll close this down gents. None of you are to say a word, not even to your old mother. 
All the police officers stare at her; they know what she means alright. 
LILLY (continuing) Jones. Make sure. 
Jones shrugs and nods. Lilly gets up and moves towards the street kid who is being talked to by two burly, grumpy policemen. The boy is shaking. 
LILLY (continuing) He saw what happened? 
POLICEMAN 1 Now he wont talk. Didn't see anything. 
Lilly looks at the boy. So young. 
LILLY What's your name? 
The kid doesn't answer and gets a whack around the ears from one of the policemen. 
LILLY (continuing; to the policeman) Stop that. 
Lilly stares at the kid, as if the way he looks has keyed a memory in her. She squats and looks him straight in the eye. 
LILLY (continuing) What's your name then? 
KID (nervous) Albert. 
LILLY You live around here? 
The kid looks nervous. Lilly moves some of the bedraggled hair out of the kid's eyes. 
LILLY (continuing) I grew up 3 streets from here. Matheson Lane. The Skrummers Workhouse. 
KID (surprised) You did? 
LILLY Or should I say, I crawled out of here. 
The kid smiles. Lilly focuses on him now. 
LILLY (continuing) No one else will do anything about this, you know? They just think this is a slum. No one really cares what happens to the people here. Except for you. And me. 
The kid stares at her; she's a magician and he's a believer. 
LILLY (continuing) What did you see? 
KID A man. 
LILLY What kind of man? 
KID A Brother. 
LILLY You're sure it was a Brother? 
KID He had teeth and everything. 
LILLY Where did he go? 
The kid turns and points to the shear wall of the alley. 
KID He went straight up there. 
Lilly stares at the wall. 
LILLY Alright, you go with these men, they'll look after you. I promise. 
LILLY How do you know I don't? 
ANDERSON Lilly, you're the least prejudiced person I know. In fact, you're the only one I know. That's important. The church is powerful, but more than that, people's faith in the Brotherhood is about all they've got these days. And the government knows it. Even the Queen herself is involved. This is political. 
Cut to 
29 INT: POLICE STATION, COMMUNAL OFFICE - DAY               29 
Lilly enters, drinking a coffee. She begins to top it up from the coffee stand when Jones comes up to her. 
JONES Lil'. He's here. 
Lilly's expression becomes taut. She peers towards her office. She can clearly see an exceptionally well dressed man in her office with his back to us. It is Silus. A young female cop - Steph - is in there and we can see her kissing a ring on Silus' hand and Silus placing his hand on her head as if blessing her. 
Steph then exits the office and approaches Lilly and Jones; her face is flushed with excitement. 
STEPH Do you know who he is? That's Brother Silus. They say one day he will lead the Brotherhood. He's a great man. 
JONES I think I hear choir music. 
Steph flashes Jones a resentful look. 
STEPH Do you respect anything? 
JONES Hey. My old mum goes to church four times a week and gives blood. She's happy as a lark. Just don't expect me to kiss him, that's all I'm telling you. 
Cut to 
30 INT: POLICE STATION, LILLY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS            30 
Close on the enigmatic ring on Silus' finger. 
We see Lilly is seated on one side of her desk, Silus on the other. Lilly is staring at the ring, then she studies a Photostat in front of her. There is a picture of a man, a rather perfect looking man. 
LILLY Senior Brother Edgar... How long have you known about this? 
Silus opposite Lilly, his perfect, serene appearance an anathema in the grunge of the Jamestown police station. He watches her very carefully, listens to the way her finger taps the sheet in front of her, the sound of her chair swiveling, all the sounds very acute to him; she has a physical ease about her. 
SILUS A matter of weeks. 
Lilly smiles. 
SILUS (continuing) Is there something wrong? 
Lilly stops smiling. For the first time she is still. 
LILLY Yes. Withholding evidence. Covering up two murders. And no one's worried. If me or one of the people in Jamestown did that they'd be in the hell house with the key thrown away. It seems the church is able to do whatever it wants. 
Silus nods. 
SILUS You're right to not like it. It is political. 
Lilly becomes more interested at this; at the bald honesty of the statement. 
SILUS (continuing) We thought we could find Brother Edgar ourselves. We were wrong. But now any debate is pointless. 
Lilly stares at him. There is already something between them even though they stand on opposite sides of a huge gulf. She nods, accepting his point. 
SILUS (continuing) The greatest danger is if this were to become public knowledge. 
LILLY Wouldn't want anyone criticizing the church I suppose. 
SILUS It's more than that Captain. This is about prejudice, or rather the nature of it. As a female surely you would understand. 
LILLY Really. 
SILUS How many other Captains in this borough are female? 
LILLY None? 
SILUS How are your actions judged, the same or differently from the men. 
DOMINIC How do you know? 
Silus moves to the desk next to him. He passes something to another cop who now sits at the desk. We see Lilly now. The look on her face tells us that she knows what is coming and she's not looking forward to it. 
We see what Silus gave the cop. An audio tape. The cop places the tape in a tape deck. He then switches it on. He then turns the volume knob on an amplifier which now directs static hiss to two big speakers. 
We see the faces of the cops, all listening in the dim light coming from the slide projector. 
Above the level of the hissing tape there is another noise. It is a wet sound. Like a cat would make if it were lapping up milk. An another sound. Like an animal, moaning with pleasure. 
We see the cops; some of them are beginning to twig. And there is another noise. It is a man; moaning. 
MAN ON THE TAPE (off) Please. Please don't hurt me. 
We see Jones and Dominic. Their glares say it all. And then another voice. 
EDGAR (off, like to a lover) Quiet. 
MAN ON THE TAPE (off) Please... 
EDGAR (off) I said shut up! 
Then we hear a punch and then noises which can only be described as sounding like a dog killing something. 
Jones springs out of his seat. 
JONES Fuck! 
LILLY Jones, sit down. 
JONES Why are we listening to this?! 
LILLY Quiet! 
Jones stands there enraged. Dominic pulls him down back into his chair. All the cops are appalled by what they have heard. And then a voice. 
EDGAR (off) Good. Now you're quiet. 
We can hear Edgar moving around. 
EDGAR (continuing; off) Did you hear that Silus? I hope so. 
We see Silus, listening as intently as everyone else. 
EDGAR (continuing; off) The next one will be tomorrow. There is a square, Bridge Square it's called. I will take the next one from there. You should try harder this time. Please try harder... 
More moving around, then the sound on the tape cuts out. We are left with only tape hiss. Everyone stares at Silus. 
FRANK He sent this to you. Specifically. 
SILUS We share the same mother. There is a bond. 
The cops all stare at Silus' emotionless response. 
LILLY There will be two teams. Frank, I want you and Abernathy up in the buildings around Bridge Square. 
Frank nods. 
LILLY (continuing) I'll lead the other team with Dominic, Jones and Queen's Imperial Guard in support. No guns, batons only. 
JONES What? 
LILLY You heard me. He's to be taken alive. 
32 EXT: JAMESTOWN, BRIDGE SQUARE - NIGHT                      32 
It has rained. The small square is dimly lit. At it's center is a small park with distorted trees. And a rundown playground. A rusty swing creaks. We see a figure there. It is Lilly. She watches the rusty swing creak. Then she looks up to the surrounding buildings. 
We tilt up to one of the buildings which is perhaps eight stories high; like the others around the square it is an apartment building. There is movement at the very top. 
Cut to 
Cut to 
His POV approaching a grill. A subdued light comes through it. The POV approaches and sees into the apartment below. 
37 INT: ROOM, SAME BUILDING - NIGHT                            37 
A woman, around 20, attractive, brushing her hair. She has just had a shower. She sits. 
Cut to 
The shaft. We see Edgar's hand enter shot. His hand grips the bottom of the grill and tries to open it. It doesn't budge. 
Cut to 
Inside the room, the woman turns and looks up at the grill. She thinks she's heard something. She stares; waits. She gets up and moves towards the grill high above on the wall. She places a chair under it, then gets up on it, standing on tip toes, trying to see if there's anything behind the grill. Her hand reaches out and tries the grill, to see if it's secure. 
Then she leans closer to it. Her face pressed right up against it. Closer. Closer. 
Cut to 
Edgar's white face, lurching into shot. Staring, staring. 
Cut to 
His POV. He is now looking through a different grill. This time there is a young man inside an apartment. Doing exercises. 
Edgar watches. And again that chilling smile. 
We see the man again, who gets up and preens himself in front of a mirror. 
Close on Edgar's eyes, devouring the sight of this pumped up flesh. The young man exits the room, going into a bathroom. 
We see Edgar's hand trying to open the grill. It moves. 
Cut to 
38 INT: APARTMENT BUILDING, HALL - NIGHT                       38 
Frank and Abernathy are on fifth floor, finishing a sweep of it. As they move they hear a CRASH. They stop. Then another crash, coming from the floor up. Then a SCREAM. 
They look at each other, then begin to run to the stairwell, as Frank talks into his RT. 
FRANK Lil'! Lil'! 
Cut to 
38A INT: POLICE VAN - CONTINUING                                38A 
LILLY Frank. 
FRANK (off) He's on the sixth floor! He's on the sixth floor! 
LILLY Let's go. 
Everyone fires into action and begins to exit the van. 
39 EXT: JAMESTOWN, BRIDGE SQUARE, ROOF - NIGHT                  39 
Silus watches from his vantage point. He can see Lilly and her team below rushing into the building adjacent to him. And then he sees, through one of the windows on the sixth floor, the flashes of gunfire. 
Cut to 
40 INT: APARTMENT BUILDING, STAIR WELL - NIGHT                  40 
Handheld camera with Lilly and her crew rushing up the stairwell; up up. 
Cut to 
41 OMITTED                                                      41 
42 INT: APARTMENT BUILDING, BRIDGE SQUARE, HALL - NIGHT         42 
50A INT: SFX - CONTINUING                                      50A 
Black. Voices in the dark, quiet at first, then growing more frightening; then the hint of a face, in negative - Edgar - then screams, like the screams of an animal on the hunt. And another face, alternating with Edgar's. Silus. 
CUT TO: 
51 INT: HOSPITAL, LILLY'S WARD - DAY                           51 
High Angle of Lilly asleep, lying on a hospital bed. We drift down. Again there is rain, pounding against the window. Her body flinches; she is in a dream, a nightmare. As we drift closer to her, her eyes open, staring straight up and then to the left. Then grim recognition. 
Cut to Low Angle on Silus standing above her, examining the tube that runs a clear fluid into her in a slow drip. 
LILLY Antibiotics. They say it's like an animal bite. 
Silus nods. He slowly sits on the bed. 
LILLY (continuing) I want to thank you. 
SILUS We all caught Edgar. 
LILLY I don't mean that. The blood, they say it saved my life. Is it true that people who go to church are given your blood? 
SILUS Sometimes the rituals call for it. Some say they have visions from it. That it restores their health. 
Silus regards her and she him. She reaches out and touches his hand, almost retracts at the smooth texture of the skin. 
LILLY So smooth. 
She turns over his hand to reveal the wrist; the scars are almost gone from where Silus cut himself. 
LILLY (continuing) Healed already. 
SILUS In some ways my body is like a human embryo. The cells regenerate quickly. It is why we live so long. Will someone come for you? Your family? 
She releases his hand. 
LILLY I don't have one. Not any more. 
SILUS I see. 
LILLY Influenza. My husband was quick. But my daughter, Mary, her little body fought it for a long time. So I just waited. Hoped. But then you realize how cruel hope is. And you just want it to end. Not to stop her suffering, but to stop my own. 
SILUS I am sorry. 
LILLY Do we seem pathetic to you? 
SILUS No. Fragile. Worn down by nature. But you fight back. 
LILLY Yes. We're good at that. 
Lilly stares up into Silus' serene face. Silus smiles. Then stands. 
SILUS I think yours will be a good life to watch, Lilly. Goodbye. 
Lilly tries to smile as Silus turns and walks off down the ward. 
Close on Lilly who looks grim. Then she turns to the window. Rain again, blowing hard against the pane. 
52 INT: HOSPITAL,LILLY'S WARD - CONTINUOUS                      52 
As Silus leaves the ward he passes Jones, who's been standing there as if he's been watching them. A beat. Then Jones shoves a newspaper into Silus' hands. 
JONES Nicely done. You're more human than I thought. 
Jones unceremoniously pushes past Silus and moves into Lilly's room. Silus reads the newspaper. The story tells of the recent deaths in Jamestown, explaining that it was an insane man who thought he was a Brother. The man's picture is shown; it is actually one of the victims. 
Through the window in the doorway Silus watches Jones approach Lilly. We are close on his enigmatic face. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
52A EXT: BROTHERHOOD BUILDING, FOYER - DAY- Establisher         52A 
Silus places his hand on the poor creature's head, blessing her. 
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY (continuing) And Edgar may be the first Brother to ever die. 
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY (continuing) Before that, his brain will wither like these women. Containment will be the issue. 
Cut to 
57 INT: BROTHERHOOD BUILDING, CELL ANTEROOM - CONTINUING       57 
A door slamming behind Silus, he is in a strangely, eerily lit cubicle. 
SILUS (off) The police officer. Lilly. Did he infect her with this? 
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY (off) No. She was lucky. But it is in Edgar's blood. It always will be. 
...and another door in front of Silus clicks, then slides open to reveal... 
58 INT: BROTHERHOOD BUILDING, CELL - CONTINUING                58 
Edgar, sitting in the chair. He immediately turns to the door, his eyes burrowing straight into Silus. 
Silus moves forward. We track, Silus' POV, toward Edgar and the reality of his predicament is revealed. 
There are metal rods extending from the cage around him. Two at the sides. Two from the front. They strategically pointed at Edgar's chest and sides. If he was to try to get up, they would pierce him. 
SILUS Hello my Brother. 
We can now see Edgar for the first time in something approaching a normal state. He looks similar to Silus, perhaps not quite so perfect. He radiates confident primeval power; less a man captured than an animal waiting. Edgar is smiles. He shifts a little, we see the rods piercing his flesh. 
EDGAR Do you like what they've done for me Silus? 
He moves again, as if enjoying it. 
SILUS You are sick. We will help you if we can. 
EDGAR Help me? I am being what I was meant to be. How can you help me from that? Or do you want to tame me? Brainwash me? Animal or vegetable, are those the two choices, Silus? 
Edgar leans closer to Silus. 
EDGAR (continuing) I want to share the feeling with you. To feel their blood flow until every last drop is yours, until that weak, pointless little pump finally stops. 
They are staring at each other very intently now. Edgar smiles gently. 
EDGAR (continuing) The one I had, the police woman. She was so strong. I found it hard to leave her. 
Edgar moves. 
EDGAR (continuing) Is she dead? 
SILUS She survived. 
EDGAR Good. I will have her again. 
For perhaps the first time, we see a real hint of anger on Silus' face. 
SILUS You won't touch her. 
Edgar looks at his brother for a moment. Edgar's features are a paradox; almost sympathy for Silus followed by understanding. Then he smiles. 
EDGAR You've chosen to watch over her. You want her don't you? I can see it in your eyes. You are like me. 
Silus' control has returned now. 
SILUS I will pray for your cure, Brother. 
Silus then turns and leaves. 
EDGAR I wont be able to forgive you for this you know? Not ever. In fact, when I get out of here... 
He moves violently, blood seeping from his wounds now. 
Cut to 
65 INT: LILLY'S APARTMENT - DAY                                 65 
We track through Lilly's apartment, silently. We enter the lounge to see Lilly sitting on a couch watching a strange looking valve powered globular Television-like device. We track ominously up behind her. Then stop. 
JONES (off) I knocked. 
Lilly turns to Jones. 
LILLY You nearly gave me a heart attack. 
Steph now emerges from the kitchen, dressed in a t-shirt and shorts and carrying some food. Jones looks at her coldly. 
JONES What's this then? 
Lilly and Steph smile at the inference Jones is beginning to draw. 
STEPH My apartment was condemned, keep your hair on, what's left of it. 
Meanwhile Lilly shushes them and turns back to the murky gray images emitting from the television. 
TV PRESENTER ...the ascension through the ranks of the Church has been fast for Brother Silus. He will now be the highest ranking cardinal outside the ruling council of the Brotherhood. This is largely seen as a reward for his handling of the last influenza pandemic. 
Jones and Lilly watch as Silus is seen on the television in an interview. Steph stares at the screen with awe, she involuntarily kisses the symbol that hangs from a chain around her neck; it resembles a Brother's ring. 
STEPH Isn't he amazing? 
Jones sneers under his breath. 
JONES A saint. 
LILLY Quiet. 
We move over their shoulders to track closer to the black and white TV screen. 
TV PRESENTER You have been an opponent of those who want an easing in the ban on genetic research. 
SILUS Yes. 
TV PRESENTER They would say you're denying legitimate research into a science that would change the world. 
SILUS The church does not deny the potential. Only the motivations of those who want to exploit it. And the fact that we understand so little of its power. 
TV PRESENTER With the elimination of influenza, are we approaching a new era where disease might be a thing of the past? 
As she is saying this we are now close on the TV's speaker. We then begin tracking out. We reveal the speaker is not part of the TV, but the speaker in Edgar's cell. Edgar, smiling coldly as he listens. As he listens he is gently gliding his finger nails against a sharp edge of the chair; sharpening them. 
SILUS Disease is part of nature, it will always be a part of our lives. 
Close on Edgar. 
EDGAR How true. 
TV PRESENTER (off) Brother Silus' confirmation ceremony will be held today in the sacred Chapel of St. Augustine where all the Brotherhood will gather. 
Edgar listens, smiles. 
66 INT: CEREMONIAL CHAPEL - DAY                                 66 
An ornate door; ancient, with strange, beautiful dark symbols carved into the old wood, like something out of a castle in Prague. The doors open and we see a large chapel. And within the large dark interior, lit by great long candles, the Brotherhood have gathered. They all stare at the camera, which we reveal is Silus' POV. 
We see SILUS. Unchanged, still the perfect creature he has always been. But for now the suit has gone and instead he stands draped in fine ropes, robes that carry his life on them; achievements, his rank, which is now high. 
In the distance, at an alter, stands AUGUSTUS. He is also in his gowns. A gong sounds and the Brothers, in unison with the music, begin to chant; it is eerie, it sounds like Tibetan monks. 
67 OMITTED                                                     67 THRU                                                             THRU 
70 INT: BROTHERHOOD BUILDING, SECURITY CONTROL ROOM -           70 CONTINUING 
Professor Liepsky, looking more aged, worn, enters the control room. Alarms are sounding. At the console is a human male who looks terrified. 
Cut to 
The Receptionist; she's trying desperately to place a call. We see the shadow from a figure cast over her and she turns and looks up, fear making her shake now. 
Cut to 
Edgar, staring down at her. 
EDGAR You won't be taking any more calls today. 
Cut to 
76 INT: BROTHERHOOD BUILDING, HALL - LATER                    76 
Slow steadicam along the underground halls. We see the bodies of Edgar's victims being cleaned up by personnel. We stop. In the distance we see the door to Edgar's cell open. 
Cut to Silus, observing the scene. The lighting is intermittent, flickering. Augustus is standing next to Silus, the weird light of the hallway reflecting in his eyes. 
AUGUSTUS Now he carries this thing out into the world. Can you imagine what will happen if he infects others? Or if the experiments were known. 
We are left with Silus' beautiful, reflective eyes. 
SILUS The question becomes what will he do next? He said he would kill us all. But especially the police officer. Lilly. 
Cut to 
77 INT: JAMESTOWN SUBWAY - SUNSET                             77 
Flashing lights of subway trains screaming through subway tunnels, wheels screeching as metal grinds on metal. 
78 INT: JAMESTOWN SUBWAY EXIT - CONTINUING                    78 
The streets are flooding like Bangkok in the monsoon; rain pouring off awnings that hang out over the street. The streets are full; prostitutes, drug peddlers, apothecary shops, the industrial revolution low down and dirty. There is a fight breaking out between two men who are dressed like punk rockers. 
Several people are alighting from a subway exit; the exit has "Jamestown/Brougham" on a nouveaux styled sign that might remind you of a Paris or Barcelona metro, only dirtier. 
We see Lilly in the distance, in her dark jacket, emerge from the subway. She begins the short walk to her apartment. The streets are crowded and there are plenty of Maori people in this area, so there's plenty of food stalls; the air is filled with the sound of evening prayers. Lilly stops at one of the food stalls and starts picking up vegetables. A Maori man comes out and smiles and they start talking in the local dialect. She buys a live eel. 
Cut to 
Across the street, in a doorway, we see a very weedy, sick looking guy - this is Freddy. Standing next to him is a Prostitute, swaying from the effects of laudanum. 
PROSTITUTE Come on governor, you going to pay me or not? 
FREDDY Soon enough my cherub. I've not finished with you yet. 
He sucks on something that looks like a ventaline inhaler, then pockets it, licks his lips and begins heading off down the street, the drunk Prostitute dragged along. 
Cut to 
Again, Lilly from a distance, walking along the street which is more deserted, now carrying a bag full of groceries. As she walks we begin to hear voices; violent, arguing. Lilly approaches an alleyway, the raised voices becoming louder. She slowly places her bag on the ground and then pulls out a revolver. She edges into the alleyway. 
79 EXT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, ALLEYWAY - CONTINUING                  79 
Lilly's POV down the alleyway. It seems empty. The POV moves in a little and there in an offshoot of the alleyway we can see Freddy. He is standing over a woman who cowers; she's 
plainly a prostitute. Freddy points a gun at her head. 
FREDDY You've been ripping me off! I should blow your dirty little brains out! 
STEPH (off) Police! Put the gun down now! 
And now we see, it's not Lilly we've been watching, but Steph. She points her gun at Freddy. Freddy turns to Steph. He slowly raises his arms. 
FREDDY It's ok. I'm complying officer, see. 
STEPH Put the gun on the ground and step away! 
FREDDY I'm doing it. 
Freddy puts the gun down. The Prostitute on the ground now scrambles to her feet and heads towards Steph. 
We can see Lilly lying on the bed, her skin alabaster in the moonlight that comes through the window blinds. Closer closer until we halt above her. 
Cut closer to see Lilly asleep; her hand grips her service revolver which protrudes from under her pillow. 
We see Silus standing above her, his eyes glisten in the sub light. As he watches, Lilly moves, as if she's having a dream, her hand grips the gun beneath her pillow. 
Silus slowly bends down, close to her. Watching. Then he reaches out, as if to gently wake her, then stops as Lilly stirs. She turns, curling up into the fetal position. Silus is confronted with the old scars from Edgar's attack. 
For a moment Silus stares at her. Stares. Then very quietly, smoothly, he moves his head down, very close to her arm. He sniffs it, as you would something very delicate, very complex. Then he closes his eyes. 
We see Lilly, her arm. Silus slowly enters frame, moves his face close to Lilly, moves along her arm as if taking in her scent. Slowly her arm raises, as his face moves up her body to her neck, her hand now embracing Silus' head. Closer as his face is near hers and still with eyes closed her face turns towards him, his dark lips and hers are close. 
Cut to 
Silus, back where he was, smelling her arm. His eyes open and he moves back a little, as if shocked by the daydream he has just indulged in. 
We see Lilly, as she was before, curled up in the fetal position. Then a sound. 
Silus immediately pivots, his gun immediately pointed at the figure who stands silhouetted in the doorway. Jones. 
JONES What are you doing? 
The camera immediately drops, through the floor of Lilly's apartment to the apartment below to find... 
88 INT: APARTMENT BELOW LILLY'S - CONTINUING                   88 
...Edgar, standing in the apartment below, immediately freezing. We zoom into his ear as he listens. 
Flash cuts of sound and image; a large man turning in his bed and groaning, a tap drips in an apartment, a fluorescent colored mosquito catcher vaporizing a mosquito with a zing, then a woman's lips; whispering... 
LILLY What is it? Jones? 
Cut to 
89 INT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - CONTINUING                89 
Silus above Lilly, his hand up to silence her, Jones stock still in the doorway. Waiting, waiting... 
Bang, Silus rushes to the window of the apartment, ripping it open, pointing his gun below. But there is no one there. Then Silus spots it. On the floor below the window is open, a curtain gently wafts out of the window in the breeze. Silus turns to Jones and Lilly. 
SILUS Stay here. 
Silus immediately drops out of the window. 
Cut to 
Lilly rushes to the window and looks out expecting to see Silus dead on the pavement below, but the street is empty. And then she sees it; the window below her apartment is open. 
90 INT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, HALLWAY - CONTINUING                90 
Lilly, gun extended, moving forward towards her apartment door, Jones behind her, trying to grab her. 
JONES Get back here, Lilly! 
But Lilly shoves him off, opens the door and moves into the hall and waits. 
She hears more smashing from the other side of the building. She turns to Jones. 
LILLY Cover me. 
And she's off, smashing the apartment door in front of her with her foot and moving into the apartment, towards the window beyond. Jones can only curse, lift his gun and move after her. 
91 INT: APARTMENT ADJACENT TO LILLY'S - CONTINUING             91 
Lilly's POV crashing through the apartment and reaching the window, pulling it open to see... 
92 EXT: LILLY'S APARTMENT, REAR - CONTINUING                   92 
...Lilly's POV of the city below. We see her search with her eyes, and then she sees it. 
Cut to 
EDGAR (continuing) Has he tasted you yet, little policewoman? 
Lilly tries to twist out of his grasp. 
EDGAR (continuing) He's just the same as me, you know it, you can feel it too. 
LILLY He's nothing like you. 
Edgar's face twists into a smile. 
EDGAR We will see. You will be my tool. 
JUMP CUT: 
A cat, hissing, screeching. 
Cut to Silus and Jones entering the alleyway, the cat tearing away from them in fright. Jones moves forward and we tilt down to see Lilly's gun lying on the wet cobblestones, smoke wisping from the barrel. Jones stoops down and picks up the gun, then turns to Silus. After a beat, Jones throws the gun at Silus' head. Silus dodges it easily and it clacks onto the cobblestones. 
JONES You happy now? 
Cut to 
93 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, HIDEOUT, TOILET - DAY               93 
Close on Freddy's face, looking at himself in a mirror. He's pulling back his eyelid; his eyes are bloodshot and he's sweating. Freddy then pushes the mirror shut and we see Edgar, silhouetted in the bathroom doorway. 
FREDDY You scared the shit out of me. Hey, the police woman. She's real sick. To tell the truth I don't feel so hot myself. 
Edgar approaches, still silhouetted. 
EDGAR I want you to take her and put her where they'll find her. 
FREDDY But I'm sick. She's given me something... 
Edgar moves incredibly fast, we can't quite see what he has done but we suspect he has just buried his hand in Freddy's chest. We see Freddy's face, stunned, deathly white. 
EDGAR What have I said to you? 
Freddy falls, leaving Edgar's hand in mid air; we can't see clearly, but it likes frighteningly like he has one of Freddy's internal organs in his hand. 
EDGAR (continuing) I hate arguments. 
Cut to 
94 EXT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, ALLEYWAY - DAY                         94 
Close on a pendant; the symbol of the Brothers. 
We pull out to reveal Steph, very sick now. Edgar is has her wrapped in a sheet and is half carrying her along a decrepit alley. Ahead of him is a street; we can see several passersby. 
Edgar sits Steph up against the wall of the alley, propped up. She really is sick. She coughs. 
Edgar looks at her for a moment. Then after consideration, takes her hands and crosses them, and places an envelope in her limp hands. Happy with the composition he moves off. 
Cut to 
A close High Angle on Steph looking up, her bloodshot, dazed eyes staring blankly. We drift up and away from her. Already the rats are beginning to come out and sniff her. 
95 INT: HOSPITAL, HALLWAY - DAY                                95 
There are several nurses running towards us, they turn and move down a hallway. We reveal Jones and Dominic. They move to the nurses station and Jones flashes his ID. 
JONES Stephanie Richards, you just brought her in. 
And then a scream. Blood curdling; the sound of someone insane, screaming their lungs out, hurling abuse. We see the faces of the cops and the terrified nurse in front of them who points down the hall where the noise is coming from. The Cops move off. The nurse then sees someone else arrive. She raises the pendant that hangs around her neck and kisses it. 
NURSE Thank god you're here. 
We see who has entered. It is Silus. Near him there are several people sick. They look sick; like Steph and Freddy looked. 
Cut to 
And we see Lilly. She is covered in grime, her hands bound above her head with chains to an ancient, ornate pipes that twist through the place. She looks up at us. 
Cut to 
103B INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, HIDEOUT, CELL - CONTINUING             103B 
Edgar, now standing above Lilly. He bends down, checking the chains that bind her. His face moves close to her so that he can smell her. Hear her heart pounding. See the scars from his previous attack. Then a noise, echoing through the tunnels. The sound of the mad infected denizens of the containment zone, screaming out into the night. Edgar smiles. 
EDGAR It almost sounds like children playing, don't you think? 
LILLY No. 
EDGAR I looked at your body. You have borne a child. 
Lilly's features tense. 
EDGAR (continuing) Did you abandon it? Your kind are good at that. 
Even though her position is impossible, Lilly won't show Edgar fear. 
LILLY Why don't you just kill me? 
Edgar just smiles. Lilly spits in his face and screams at him. 
LILLY (continuing) Kill me! 
Edgar grabs her by the throat, for a moment anger boils out of Edgar, but he restrains himself. 
EDGAR I can see why he likes you. But I have a better use for you. To save you, Silus will take my blood. Join me. 
LILLY You're insane. 
EDGAR The world is insane. I am better than you. But they force me to serve you. Does that happen in a sane world? Forced to watch you waste the most precious thing you have. Life. 
Then Edgar's face changes; he stares at her with pity, for a moment we see a hint of the noble creature he used to be. 
EDGAR (continuing) Do you know what they do to us when we are born? They take us from our mothers. Force us into a life of loneliness, and denial. Can you imagine a life like that? 
Lilly senses an opening. 
LILLY You don't have to do this. You can change things. 
Edgar places his head in his hands, he seems to be weeping. 
EDGAR You have reminded me of something. 
When he looks back up at her, he is terrifying to behold. 
EDGAR (continuing) I must search out my mother, if she still lives. And kill her for what she did. 
Edgar smiles quietly, rises and exits. 
We are left with Lilly bound to the rusty pipes. She strains, tries to pull her hands from the chains, but they won't move. Above her on the pipe there is a old rusty bracket. Lilly blinks through the sweat running into her eyes. She moves the 
chains that bind her hands closer to the bracket and begins rubbing the chains against the bracket in the vain hope that she may be able to cut her way through the chains. She strains harder and harder, fighting back the tears, the fear, she just grinds at the chain repetitively. 
Cut to 
104 INT: HOSPITAL, STEPH'S ROOM - DAY                           104 
Steph, in the hospital bed, her eyes staring up, hollow. A bed sheet is drawn over her dead face. 
Cut to 
105 INT: HOSPITAL, VARIOUS - CONTINUING                         105 
We see Silus. Staring through a window into an office. In there we can see Jones. Jones is talking in a very animated manner to someone who is obviously a reporter. The reporter stares, like Jones, through the window towards Silus. Jones turns away, looking guilty. 
Cut to 
Bedlam in the hospital corridors. People screaming, being restrained. What is clear is that the virus Steph had has now broken out into a plague of biblical proportions. We see a DOCTOR standing in the middle of the hospital corridor, blood over his smock, in a state of pure shock. 
AUGUSTUS It is a necessary step. We cannot let this escape. 
SILUS No! 
Augustus looks up at Silus; this is perhaps the first time Silus has refused anything that Augustus has decreed. 
AUGUSTUS Is it the policewoman? Is this affecting your thinking? There is no love for our kind Silus. Only service. 
SILUS We have done this. Released this thing into the world. We have betrayed their trust in us, more than once. I won't do it again. 
AUGUSTUS There is no debate. They will be sacrificed, so the rest will be pure. 
Silus shakes his head. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) This policeman, Jones. He talked to the press. Told them this came from Edgar. 
Silus watches Augustus very carefully. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) There are members of the inner circle who question the way you have handled this. Blame you for this man's actions. I have made it clear that you will fix this. That you will silence him. 
Augustus moves close to Silus now. Gently touches his face. 
AUGUSTUS (continuing) These are hard things we do. But you must think of the greater good. And of your own future. 
Cut to 
A light bulb flickering. 
112 INT: JONES APARTMENT, HALL - NIGHT                         112 
Jones exits an elevator. The light above him flickers and dies. He stands in the dark. 
JONES Great. 
Jones begins to stomp down the hall, towards the part of the hall that is lit. Then pop, that light goes out as well. 
Jones stops. He pulls out his big gun from his armpit holster. He checks over his shoulder, and then with the gun extended he moves slowly forward. He approaches an area that opens up a little. He pauses, then under his breath. 
JONES (continuing) Come on then... 
He launches himself around the corner and fires his gun. He's lucky that his misses his target. 
A small, dirty, cowering boy with his fingers on the bank of light switches. The wall next to the boy's head has exploded; dust and wall board now drift down like snow. 
Jones can only stare at the quivering child whose dirty face blank with fright. 
Then Jones turns. He can make out a figure in the dark hall. A patient, quiet sentinel. 
113 INT: JONES APARTMENT - NIGHT                                113 
Jones opens the door to his apartment and enters. Silus follows. The place is a dump. Lounge and kitchen all one area, bedroom off to one side, dishes in the sink, clothes everywhere. Jones heads into the kitchen and turns on a coffee machine, then grabs a dirty glass, pours a drink. Silus watches him. 
Jones comes into the lounge. He still has his gun in his hand. He stares at Silus, whose perfect outline makes Jones' life seem even more abysmal. 
JONES What do you want? 
SILUS I want to help you. They know you talked to the press. 
JONES They can fuck off. For that matter, so can you. 
Jones takes a slurp on his drink. 
JONES (continuing) You'd be the last person I'd trust. 
SILUS Why? 
JONES I saw you. Remember. Watching Lilly, when she was asleep. 
Silus doesn't answer now. Jones moves forward. 
JONES (continuing) Maybe you're just like your Brother. Maybe you're helping him. Now there's a thought. 
EDGAR It is a maze down here. But given time, that thing will find her. Do things to her. I'll show you where she is, if you take some. 
Edgar stalks forward. He holds up his arm to Silus. 
Silus stares at the tube coming from Edgar's arm. Edgar moves towards Silus, twisting on the tube so that his infected blood drips onto the ground. 
EDGAR (continuing) You're almost there anyway. 
And then Silus' face, intense, a dark smile, his hand now gripping Edgar's hand; surprise in Edgar's eyes. 
He pulls Edgar toward him with all his might, his hand clamping onto Edgar's throat - the power of the entwined bodies immense - then Edgar whipping his body, breaking Silus' grip, smashing Silus on the side of the head, but then only to get a kick from Silus directly in the stomach that sends him smashing into several protruding pipes, ripping into his back. Edgar screams. 
122 INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, HIDEOUT, CELL - CONTINUING          122 
Lilly. Half conscious now, hanging from the pipe above her, twisting. The sound of Edgar's screams makes her groan, awaken a little, dazed. Then there is a loud clang. She cranes her head to see down the tunnel that leads to her cell. She catches sight of a shadow, movement in the tunnel. 
LILLY Silus... 
Then the figure moves into the tunnel, shuffling, the legs not completely following the brains instructions, but doing enough to propel the person forward, then a stumble. And in a shaft of light Lilly can see a hand slapping at the wet wall. But it is less a hand than a claw. And the face that follows the hand; the red, reflective eyes of one of the half mad, the infected. The thing catches sight of Lilly, then propels itself towards her. 
We see it's POV, approaching faster, faster. 
And Lilly reaching out with her foot, to the door, struggling to hook it with her foot, trying to close it, almost catching the door handle, but her foot is so slippery and the thing is almost on her. Then she stretches out with her foot, just catching the door and slams it in the face of the thing that is about to attack her. 
The thing on the other side of the door is now screaming wildly and the door handle is jerking down as the creature tries to activate it and Lilly has her feet on it, trying desperately to keep the door shut, but her feet keep slipping. And then she realizes that the pipe from which she hangs is beginning to wobble - water is now coursing from the hole in the wall, beginning to flow faster and faster. Her feet slip more and more on the door. 
Lilly tries to keep the door closed, but her feet are too slippery and the thing is pushing through the door. In the dark space only its eyes and slavering mouth are clear, hands grasping for Lilly legs, scratching at them, Lilly twisting, the creature's nails searching for purchase on her legs. Lilly hauls herself up, wrapping her legs around the pipe she's attached to. The thing below her is groaning incoherently, reaching up, its hands grabbing at her, Lilly pulling herself just out of reach, then seeing the eyes below her, wanting her. Lilly tries to pull herself higher. And then she feels it. The pipe she's attached to is shifting, where it joins the wall. Water is now flooding from it, the pipe jerks down, some of the old wall giving way. 
The creature's fingers are now able to grasp Lilly's t-shirt, drag at it, pull at her, screaming, the pipe grinding, water flowing and then the whole thing comes down, the pipe bursting out of the wall. 
Lilly and the pipe falls, right on top of the creature. 
For a moment neither of them move, then the creature is grabbing at Lilly's hair, pulling her head back. In a flash Lilly pulls the pipe to which she is attached right into the face of the creature. This gives her time to stagger upright. 
She's still chained around the pipe; she can see the end of the pipe near the door. 
She begins to slide the chains back as the creature begins to rise and advance towards her. Lilly desperately slides the chain along the pipe. It catches on a protrusion, while the creature advances. Lilly frees it just in time, falling backwards as the creature jumps at her, Lilly lifting the chain up to hold the creature back. The creature strains to get at Lilly. Lilly now has the chain at the creature's neck. She begins to tighten it around the creature's neck, her only hope now. The creature changes now, from frightening to pitiful as it realizes it can't breath, it's fingers desperately moving over Lilly's face, almost pleading. Tears form in Lilly's eyes as she tightens the stranglehold; there is no anger there, just desperation, and behind that, pity. 
The creature breathes it's last breath then collapses onto Lilly. 
123 OMITTED                                                      123 AND                                                              AND 
124A INT: JAMESTOWN SLUM, HIDEOUT, STEAMROOM - CONTINUING        124A 
Edgar and Silus stalk each other in the steam room. Edgar launches himself towards Silus, but Silus is now too quick. Silus slams Edgar sideways into a pipe, an imprint of Edgar's face left on the pipe. 
Stunned Edgar releases his grip, stumbles back, Silus rising now, he has him. Again, Silus slams Edgar's head into another pipe. And now Silus has Edgar's throat in his fist and the look on Silus' face tells Edgar he will not escape. 
We see Edgar, beginning to lose consciousness now, dying. Steam now rises all around them from broken pipes. Then behind Silus, Edgar can make something out. An old, corroded tank, steaming, with the words sterilizer on it. There are a series of long shafts connected to the sterilizer via a tube and held in position by clamps; they look like they're for sterilizing bottles. 
With a last effort Edgar propels Silus backwards onto one of the shafts, making Silus grimace and clutch his back where he's been pierced, then slide to the ground. The piercing has operated some lever so that steam now also drifts from the wound on Silus' back. 
Cut to 
Silus looking up, clutching his back with the pain of it. 
And now Edgar above him. He removes one of the sterilizer shafts from the bracket that holds it. He clutches a lever on the side which makes viciously hot steam pulse from the end of the shaft. Edgar moves slowly towards Silus. 
We see Silus, unable to rise, crawling back, until bang, he's stopped by more pipes behind him. Nowhere to go. 
And Edgar ready to pounce. He does, driving the shaft towards Silus' head. Silus manages to raise one hand to Edgar's wrist to stop the shaft from piercing his skull. Now the shaft is right in Silus' face, the lightly steaming hole staring back at Silus. Edgar's finger moves to the lever on the side of the shaft, ready to get some steam going. 
EDGAR If I burn the skin from your face, I wonder how that would be. If you looked like a monster... 
Cut to 
Edgar's finger moving over the steaming lever. The steaming end of the shaft right in Silus' face. 
Then Edgar's face as he watches his brothers face for the last time. 
The blasting sound of steam and a steaming blast from the shaft drifts into our frame. 
