PET SEMATARY II 
PET SEMATARY II 
An Original screenplay by Richard Outten 
Revised by David S. Goyer 
Based upon characters created by Stephen King 
THIRD DRAFT 
Revised 1/6/91 
"PET SEMATARY II" 
FADE IN: 
INT.  LEMARCHE CASTLE, TOMB - NIGHT (1865) 
A storm is raging outside. We hear the clap and roll of THUNDER. 
TOMB STAIRWAY - 
RATS scurry away down the scum-covered steps as the GLOW OF A LANTERN and FOOTSTEPS herald someone's arrival... 
GENVIEVE LEMARCHE 
emerges around the bend. Mid-30s. Cultured beauty. Her dress and face are smeared with grime and... is that blood we see too? God only knows what's happened to her. 
Genvieve ducks under a monstrous cobweb as she passes an open window. 
WINDOW 
LIGHTNING streaks across the night sky outside. We catch a glimpse of the MOON disappearing behind the clouds. 
Genvieve reaches the bottom of the stairs. The tomb itself. 
Water trickles in through cracks in the lichen-covered walls, pooling on the tomb floor. 
Genvieve moves forward, her lantern throwing distorted shadows over everything... 
In front of her is Anton LeMarche's stone sarcophagus. Genvieve kneels in the water, one hand resting on the spiked iron railing which surrounds the tomb. She reaches the other hand towards a scum-covered plaque, brushing the grime away... 
THUNDER and LIGHTNING reach a crescendo as... 
A SKELETAL HAND rises out of the water, reaching for her. 
Genvieve SCREAMS. The lantern falls from her grasp, sputtering out. The hand reaches for her arm and inadvertently clutches her breast instead... 
Genvieve starts to laugh hysterically. 
DIRECTOR (O.S.) (exasperated) Cut! Thank you, Renee. Can we throw some light on the set? 
GENVIEVE I'm sorry... 
Suddenly it is lighter. Genvieve can't stop laughing. The groping monster hand disappears back beneath the water. 
WE PULL BACK, REVEALING - 
It's not 1865. The LeMarche Castle tomb is in fact, a 90s movie set. We are inside a soundstage, on a raised set, so the slugline should really read... 
INT.  SOUNDSTAGE, LEMARCHE CASTLE TOMB SET - 
A FILM CREW scurries about. Everyone is LAUGHING now. The DIRECTOR sits to the right. He and the DP are already huddled over the video-assist monitor. We see the previous scene rewinding at high- speed. 
The FIRST A.D. moves in. 
FIRST A.D. Water in the pool's running low, fill her up! 
Crewmembers move towards the set. 
An SFX PUPPETEER (i.e., the skeletal arm) crawls out from under, followed by an ELECTRICIAN. 
PUPPETEER I can't see shit down there! I'm working blind! 
GENVIEVE/THE ACTRESS 
rises out of the water. Her name is actually RENEE HALLOW and her beauty is undeniable, even in such a disheveled state. 
RENEE This is great, I could've spent four months on a romantic comedy with Warren Beatty, and instead, I've got a horny zombie trying to cop a feel! 
The crew members LAUGH. She's well-liked on the set. Renee grins. Wardrobe and make-up personnel move in to adjust Renee's appearance. 
RENEE Uhgh, there's water everywhere... (beat) Can I get a cigarette? 
The MAKE-UP GIRL pulls a pack of cigarettes from her fanny-pack and offers Renee one. In a flash, a P.A. appears with a lighter. Renee mumbles "thanks" as she fires up. She squints her eyes, trying to see past the set lights. 
RENEE (calling out) Geoff? (beat) Anybody see my boy? 
Crewmembers SCREAM and scramble back... 
All the circuits are blowing, lights EXPLODING and showering sparks over the whole set. This is not part of the movie. 
RENEE 
It's awful. She shakes, her SMOKING HANDS frozen to the iron railing by the electricity running through her... 
Suddenly, Renee falls forward against the iron. Her face begins to SMOKE AND SINGE... 
The lights CONTINUE TO BLOW, casting a strobic effect over the soundstage, adding to the chaos. 
ON GEOFF 
As he witnesses the whole event. He tries to rush forward, but someone restrains him... 
GEOFF Mom!!!! 
Suddenly all the circuits in the stage are blown and the LIGHTS GO OUT. Renee slumps back into the water, smoke trailing up from her still form. And we... 
CUT TO: 
OMITTED (SCENES 2 THRU 2J) 
INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY 
An aged GOLDEN RETRIEVER is on the surgical table. CHASE MATTHEWS, D.V.M., gently strokes the dog's fur. He's good with the dog. He's kind. The retriever's owners: a MOTHER and her SON, look on. 
CHASE I think this is probably for the best. He's a very old dog. He has arthritis. He has cataracts in his eyes... 
Chase looks at the mother. He's always hated this part. 
CHASE He's had a good life... (to dog) ...haven't you, boy? 
INTERCOM Doctor Matthews, your son is on line one. He says it's an emergency... 
Chase breaks concentration, pulling his eyes away from the mother and son. 
INT.  SOUNDSTAGE, LEMARCHE CASTLE TOMB SET - 
A blur of activity converges on the movie set. A TRIO OF PARAMEDICS. A FIRE OFFICIAL. A POLICE OFFICER. Medical equipment. Horrified crewmembers watch on, helpless. 
WE STAY ON Geoff, momentarily blocked out and then revealed again and again, amidst the commotion of paramedics scrambling to save Renee. The director has his hand on Geoff's shoulder. 
Geoff's eyes dart about, taking it all in. Things are happening very fast: 
--Renee's hand is lifted. Someone checking her pulse. --Her eyelids parted. A pen light flashing at her fixed pupils. 
PARAMEDIC #1 (O.S.) Run me down a line of normal saline. 
--An I.V. needle plunges into the inside of Renee's elbow. --A syringe injects into the I.V. post. 
--Hands hook up a life-pack monitor. Renee's dress is torn away. Electrodes press to bare skin. --The monitor screen blinks to life. 
PARAMEDIC (O.S.) We have a bradycardic rhythm at 
--Another PARAMEDIC dials out on a cellular phone, to the consulting physician. 
PARAMEDIC #3 (O.S.) White female. Approximately thirty five years old. Electrocution... 
--A clear tube is inserted down her throat. --The monitor shows erratic heartbeat. 
PARAMEDIC #2 (O.S.) She's in V-fib. 
--There's a renewed urgency even amidst their rush. 
--Defibrillator paddles are pressed to her chest. 
Geoff looks to the monitor as... 
--It goes to flatline. 
PARAMEDIC (O.S.) Clear. 
GEOFF No... 
Geoff moves forward, pulling away from the director. The police officer moves in and intercepts Geoff, turning the boy away. 
Geoff's eyes fix on the monitor. An unbending flatline... 
GEOFF You have to bring her back... 
Chase rushes onto the set, pushing past crewmembers. He freezes at the sight of the horrific commotion around Renee's still form. 
CHASE Oh Jesus... 
Chase's gaze connects with his son. 
GEOFF (helpless) Dad... 
Gus glances at Geoff. 
GUS I hear you moved into town. 
CHASE I wanted to get Geoff out of L.A. Just start things over, you know? 
Gus nods. Now his eyes fall on Renee's headstone. 
GUS I remember when Renee left. She couldn't wait to get out of Ludlow. She used to say that life moved too slow here... 
Chase forces a smile. 
CHASE That's Renee alright. 
GUS I suppose so. 
The sky above seems heavy with imminent rain and we... 
CUT TO: 
12    OMITTED THRU 15    OMITTED 
EXT.  HOUSE - DAY 
Lazy oaks embrace a vintage, two-story Victorian home in the rural neighborhood of Ludlow, Maine. A commercial MOVING VAN is parked out front. 
Marjorie, the girl we saw at Renee's funeral, is coming down the sidewalk. She checks the address on the front of the house, then heads up the driveway. 
INT.  DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY 
Moving boxes clutter the downstairs. 
Chase is weaving through the maze, doing an inventory on the boxes. 
A sweaty PAIR OF MOVERS are climbing up the stairs. Each is hunched  over, with a garment box balanced on his back. The side of each carton is boldly labeled: RENEE - ATTIC. 
MOVER (O.S.) We've got six more of these. You sure you want them all in the attic? 
Chase is contemplating a compromise when Geoff appears from the kitchen doorway. 
CHASE ...Geoff, what if we just give the clothes to Goodwill? We'll keep the rest. Just the clothes. 
Geoff shakes his head, firm and deliberate denial. 
GEOFF You're the one who wanted to move. Nobody would've touched them if you didn't want to move here... 
Chase weakens, giving in. 
CHASE All the 'Renee' boxes go in the attic. Sorry. 
Marjorie KNOCKS on the open frame of the front door. 
Geoff recognizes her from his mother's funeral. She flashes him a warm smile. 
MARJORIE Hi. I'm Marjorie Hargrove. Your new housekeeper. 
Marjorie has a naive, friendly quality about her. She's also blessed with eye-popping genetics. Standing there outside the door, looking more than a little nervous... we can't help but like her. Needless to say, she doesn't look like your typical housekeeper. 
MARJORIE (re: Chase's reaction) Is something wrong? 
CHASE Uh... no. You just... look different than you sounded on the phone. Please, come in. 
Marjorie enters. She grins at Geoff again. Yep. She's nervous alright. 
MARJORIE I'm real excited about working for you Mr. Matthews... 
CHASE Well we're glad to have you, Marjorie. You can call me Chase, by the way. 
Marjorie passes her curious eyes over one of Renee's garment containers. 
MARJORIE I've always admired Ms. Hallow. That scene she did in Blue Midnight, where her lover meets her at the train station... (she sighs) I must've watched that movie four times. 
Chase smiles. Marjorie's enthusiasm is endearing. 
Just then, one of the movers loses his grip. A garment box bounces down the slope of the stairs. When it reaches the bottom, dresses spill over the floor. 
MARJORIE Oh. I'll get that... 
Marjorie moves for the spill. The first dress she touches is a beaded peach evening gown. Her fingers linger on the fabric. 
MARJORIE This is gorgeous. She wore this at the Emmys, didn't she? 
Geoff moves forward, acting overly defensive. 
GEOFF Hey, don't touch her stuff. It made her crazy when people touched her stuff. 
Marjorie is taken aback by the oddity of Geoff's statement. 
Chase catches her eye, shrugging apologetically. 
Susan shuts up. Geoff sinks even lower in his seat. 
The kids turn their eyes back to the front of the room. 
But one classmate's eyes are still on Geoff. It's Clyde. 
Clyde shifts his stare to the squirming lump in Geoff's jacket. He catches a glimpse of Tiger's bobbing nose popping out. 
INT.  HALLWAY - DAY 
Geoff joins the stampede of kids as the BELL releases them for the day. Almost immediately, Clyde and his cronies, STEVIE AND BRAD, fall in step behind him. Drew hangs slightly off to the side, not really wanting to be a part of the intimidation. 
CLYDE What's the hurry, Junior? Where you off to? 
Clyde quickens his pace, pulling ahead of Geoff and stopping in front of him. Stevie and Brad move in on either side. Surrounded by peers, it's apparent how small Geoff is for his age. 
On the wall next to them is a bulletin board display. Clyde glances at it. Geoff follows his gaze. 
DISPLAY 
It's one of those corny school affairs with construction paper letters spelling out: "WE REMEMBER RENEE HALLOW." Beneath that are pictures of Renee clipped from various magazines. Cloyingly tasteless. 
CLYDE (feigning remorse) Too bad about your Mom. Papers said it was pretty gross, getting fried like that. Guess you saw it, huh? 
Geoff nods. Clyde raises his eyebrows, pulling Geoff's jacket open. 
CLYDE So, what are you hiding there? 
STEVIE When you bring a friend to school you're supposed to introduce him. 
Geoff's arm tightens protectively around Tiger. 
GEOFF Her name's Tiger. 
CLYDE Tiger? Don't you think that's kind of a pussy name? (reaching out) Can I hold her? I promise I'll be real careful. 
Clyde has a convincing way about him. Geoff reluctantly hands the kitten over. Clyde is so gentle with the creature that one would never question his sincerity. 
Geoff is just beginning to feel at ease when something changes in Clyde's tone, something sinister. 
CLYDE Hey, Geoff. You ever seen a kitten run? 
GEOFF I've seen her run around the house. 
Clyde's eyes narrow. He takes a couple of steps back. Geoff's heart starts to sink. 
CLYDE No, I mean really run... (beat) Like this! 
Clyde backsteps and bolts off down the hallway with Tiger. Brad and Stevie fall in behind him, laughing. 
Drew shrugs apologetically. He's torn, but he tears off after them nonetheless. 
GEOFF Shit... 
Geoff runs off in pursuit of them. 
EXT.  SCHOOL - DAY 
Geoff rushes from the building, searching the dispersing crowd. There they are, tearing from the bike racks, pedaling for the street. 
Clyde sees Geoff and mockingly holds the kitten out for display as they ride by. 
Geoff runs for the bike racks. 
EXT.  ROAD - DAY 
Clyde and his cohorts break from the outskirts of town, riding out onto the open road. 
Clyde glances back toward the center of town. 
Geoff is so far behind he's barely visible. 
Clyde returns his eyes to the road ahead, raising Tiger nose to nose with him. 
CLYDE Having fun yet? 
Clyde and his smirking buddies ride on, OUT OF FRAME. 
WITH GEOFF 
giving the pedals all he can, struggling to keep pace with the boys. 
35    OMITTED 
FURTHER ALONG 
Scattered houses sprinkle the landscape ahead. Cochran Lake stretches into the distance beyond the housing. 
Clyde's clan cuts from the road and blazes a trail across a residential property. The two-story house is weathered and boarded up. It looks vaguely familiar. Creepy. 
The woods here have grown long with shadows. The air is still and the sound of birds is conspicuously absent. 
A WOODEN ARCHWAY frames the entrance to the primitive graveyard. Scrawled across the weatherstained boards is a child's barely legible attempt at "PET SEMATARY." 
Geoff trepidatiously enters the clearing of crude, crowded graves. Collars, leashes, bird cages and other accessories adorn the makeshift crosses and headstones. 
Geoff moves along the outer circle of markers, each crafted by a child's caring hands. 
As he searches, he can't help but notice the heartfelt epitaphs. On the outer circle, he sees a crate-board marker memorializing: SMUCKY THE CAT... HE WAS OBEDIANT. 
MOVING INWARD, the markers are older. The ones he can still read convey a sense of the perpetual cycle of life and death. 
Here is a wide, flat, upright board planted deep in the earth: "In Memory of MARTA our Pet Rabit Dyed March 1 1965." 
The next three rows are illegible, the inscriptions are weathered beyond recognition... And then, chiseled into sandstone: HANNAH THE BEST DOG THAT EVER LIVED 1929-1939. 
And now... "MEOW." Faint. But very much alive. 
Geoff picks up his pace, weaving quickly toward the center. 
There, he finds Tiger. Trapped in a rusted old birdcage, its base swallowed by the grave. 
Geoff opens the door and frees Tiger, stroking the trembling kitten. 
Geoff's eyes are drawn to the far perimeter... to the deadfall... 
THE DEADFALL looms on the outskirts of the clearing like a pile of skeletal remains. An abstract stairway to things beyond. A wind picks up just then, sending leaves skittering in waves across the ground. 
40    OMITTED 
EXT.  PET SEMATARY PATH - DAY 
When Geoff turns around, he finds Drew waiting for him under the archway. Drew smiles, full of respect for Geoff. 
DREW I've never seen anybody punch Clyde before. 
GEOFF (shrugs) He pissed me off. 
DREW (his smile fading) Sorry about your mom. (beat) I couldn't handle not having my mom around. Just having Gus... 
He grimaces at the thought. 
GEOFF My dad's not so bad. 
Drew glances around at all the makeshift grave markers. 
DREW I swear, sometimes I wish Gus was dead... 
GEOFF (serious) You shouldn't ever say that about your parents, not even your Dad. 
DREW Stepdad. Gus is my stepdad. 
Geoff nods knowingly. 
GEOFF What was all that stuff about dead people coming back to life? 
DREW Nothing. It's just an old ghost story. Let's get out of here... 
They head off, full of childhood. 
INT.  KITCHEN - DUSK 
Marjorie is at the stove, fixing up dinner, while Chase scans the newspaper at the table. 
Geoff enters through the kitchen door. He moves past them without a word. 
CHASE (calling after him) Hey! How was your first day at school? 
GEOFF (over his shoulder) It sucked. 
MARJORIE Now is that any way to talk to your father? 
Geoff stops for a moment, turns... 
GEOFF You're not my mother. 
...and exits through the opposite door. 
Chase looks to Marjorie and offers a sympathetic shrug. 
CHASE Sorry. 
EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DUSK 
CRUDE CAGES HOUSE DOZENS OF RABBITS. Situated alongside the garage. A sign above the cages reads: PET RABBITS - $10.00. Bells positioned along the roof threaten to reveal foul play. 
Gus is rigging a wire along the base of the cage. 
Finishing it off, he hangs the plug next to an outside socket. Moving onto the next chore, he pours pressed alfalfa pellets into feeding slots for the hungry rabbits. 
INT.  GUS' ROOM - NIGHT 
The ELECTRICAL ZING. The dog's whimpering CRY. And the RINGING OF BELLS reach Gus in rapid succession, rousting him from his sleep. He rolls out of bed and grabs his robe. 
GUS Damn it, Drew. That dog is history! 
Amanda stirs, groggily focusing on Gus' departing figure. 
INT.  DREW'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Drew swings open the door to the hallway as Gus marches by, stuffing shells into a shotgun. Panicked, Drew takes off after him. 
EXT.  RABBIT CAGES - NIGHT 
Zowie swings his head in the direction of the house as Gus bursts through the back door. Drew is one step behind. 
Gus swings the gun up and fires off a SHOT. 
Zowie bolts for the shadows of the hillside. 
Drew rushes in and deflects the aim of the rifle. 
DREW Don't shoot him! 
Gus' eyes are wild with anger. 
GUS What, Drew? What did you say?! 
Gus throws Drew aside, brings the rifle back up and FIRES another random shot after the fleeing dog. All the while, his eyes remain on Drew, as if this were the boy's lesson to be learned. 
He squeezes off one more SHOT... 
A PAINED YELP echoes from the hillside. Zowie's yelp. 
Drew whips his head aside in sickened shock. Even Gus is sobered by the unexpected hit. 
All they can hear now are Zowie's WHIMPERING CRIES diminishing in the night. 
Drew shoots Gus a look of such unbridled hatred that Gus is speechless. He backs away from Gus and darts off toward the dark hillside. 
When Gus turns back for the house, Amanda is standing there. 
AMANDA Jesus, Gus, what have you done? 
GUS Ah, come on, Amanda, stop looking at me like that. He's had ample warning about that dog. 
Amanda glares at him, an outpouring of pent-up strain. 
Gus defiantly marches past Amanda, entering the house without ever meeting eyes with her. 
EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT 
Drew pauses long enough to listen for Zowie... 
Nothing until a FAINT CRY drifts back at him. 
DEEPER IN THE WOODS 
Zowie limps INTO FRAME. Blood is flowing from the bullet wound in his left hindquarter, trailing from his suspended leg. Every step is a strain. 
DREW 
comes upon a break in the trees. The hanging moon outlines the knoll stretching beyond. And then, the strained breathing, the hushed WHIMPER. 
Drew hesitantly approaches the crest of the knoll. 
Zowie is just beyond, lying on his side at the end of the bloody trail. His chest rises and falls almost imperceptibly with every effort to survive. 
Drew drops to his knees at Zowie's side and cradles the dog in his lap, shaking his head in denial. 
Zowie's weak eyes shift, gazing longingly at Drew. 
Drew strokes the fur under Zowie's chin, hardly able to see the dog through his glaze of tears. 
Zowie's eyes drift off. His chest falls and doesn't rise again. He falls limp in Drew's arms. Drew hugs Zowie even tighter and he begins to weep. 
FROM A DISTANCE 
WE SEE the image of Drew with the dog cradled in his arms, silhouetted against the moonlit horizon. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
53    OMITTED 
EXT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - MORNING 
Geoff appears from the garage with his bike and takes off for the road. A WHISTLE catches his ear. 
Drew is at the edge of the woods, beckoning for Geoff. 
Geoff nods and hands over the digging tools. Drew swings the pickaxe, sinking it into the ground. 
GEOFF You want me to help? 
DREW You have to bury your own. That's the way the Indians did it. It's like a rule... 
Backing away from the burial ground, Geoff takes a seat on a rock at the border of the forest. From there, he watches. 
Drew alternates the pickaxe and shovel as he clears a hole in the rocky ground. 
WE MOVE IN ON GEOFF, who's looking on with skeptical intrigue as the rhythmic SOUND of the tools continues. 
59    OMITTED 
LATER - 
A cairn is complete: a conical pile of rocks over Zowie's grave. 
Drew is now sitting on the rock next to Geoff. Together, they stare at the cairn as if Zowie might climb from beneath at any moment. 
DREW What if he really does come back? 
Geoff shrugs, pondering such a thought. 
Geoff digs into his pocket and produces a pack of gum, offering one to Drew. With only a quick glance away from the grave, Drew snatches a piece and he stuffs it into his mouth. Geoff does the same. 
They sit together in silence. Nervously chewing their gum. Watching the grave. 
DREW I've never had anyone die before... (beat) ...but I guess you get over it. I mean, eventually... 
GEOFF (quietly) You never get over it. 
EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - AFTERNOON 
The sun dips over the horizon, giving way to dusk. 
EXT.  MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - DUSK 
Geoff's eyes shift from the grave to the darkening sky. 
GEOFF It's getting pretty late. We better go. 
DREW (disappointed) Yeah... 
They rise, leaving the burial ground. En route, Drew pauses for a last look at the grave. 
DREW So long, Zowie... 
Geoff follows, glancing back at the burial ground. It looks magical in the twilight, not quite so sinister now. 
EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT 
Drew is walking home along the road, alone. 
Headlights blind him as a car approaches. It slows and pulls a U- turn, stopping at Drew's side. It's Gus' squad car. He pushes open the passenger door. 
GUS Get in. 
Drew takes a step back, shaking his head. 
GUS Your momma's worried sick over you. You take off in the middle of the night, you don't show up for school. What're you trying to prove? 
DREW I'm not trying to prove anything. (beat) I was burying my dog. 
Gus turns his eyes away, focusing on the dark road ahead. 
GUS Life is full of lessons. No one's above it. Not you. Not me... Now get in the car. 
After a moment, Drew approaches the car. Without another word, Gus drives off. 
64    OMITTED 
EXT.  RABBIT CAGE - NIGHT 
It's quiet now. And out of the silence comes the JINGLING of Zowie's dog tags. Zowie's LONG SHADOW creeps over the cage, distorted to monstrous proportion by the flickering light. 
We move past the cages to the back porch... 
We see ZOWIE'S PAW scratching at the door. 
INT.  AMANDA AND GUS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Amanda wakens with a start. She rises, eyes focusing on the dark bedroom. Gus is sound asleep next to her. Then, from outside, we faintly hear ZOWIE'S SCRATCHING. 
Slowly, Amanda rises from bed, pulling on a bathrobe as she heads for the door. 
EXT.  BACK PORCH - NIGHT 
Amanda appears at the door. She unlatches it, stepping outside. 
Chase hesitates, but finally he rises and answers the phone. 
After a moment, he returns. GEOFF Who was that? 
CHASE Remember Zowie, Drew's dog? He got hurt again. I'm going over to take a look at him. 
Geoff's eyes widen. He looks like a ghost walked over his grave. 
GEOFF I'm going with you. 
Chase nods and exits to get his coat. 
Geoff looks back at the TV once more. The image paused. 
Renee staring at us from beyond the grave. 
EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Gus, Amanda, Drew and Geoff are gathered around Chase's van. 
EXT./INT.  CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT 
Chase lays Zowie on his side on an examining table and shines an overhead light onto the wound. 
Geoff is looking in from outside, utterly bewildered by the living, breathing dog. 
CHASE How'd it happen? 
Gus casts a threatening glance in Drew's direction. 
DREW (glaring at Gus) Some psycho hunter probably got trigger happy... 
Chase is too busy preparing a syringe to notice the nonverbal exchange. 
CHASE I'm going to give Zowie a local anaesthetic so I can clean up the wound. I'd like to take him home tonight for observation. 
AMANDA Fine. 
DREW Can you keep him at your place until he gets better? 
CHASE Sure... 
Drew tenderly strokes Zowie's mane as Chase administers the injection. Zowie stares up at Geoff with dull, blank eyes. 
Drew reads Geoff's bewilderment and joins him outside the van. Their words are clear, but whispered. 
GEOFF Maybe he wasn't dead when we buried him. 
DREW He was dead. You know he was. 
Geoff returns his stare to Zowie. 
DREW You can't tell anyone, Geoff. Ever. 
Geoff looks into Drew's eyes and nods in understanding. 
69    OMITTED THRU 75    OMITTED 
INT.  GEOFF'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Tiger is curled up at the foot of Geoff's bed. Geoff climbs in, careful not to disturb the kitten. As he lays his head back on the pillow... 
VOICE (O.S.) Sleep tight, darling. I'll be with you soon. 
It's a woman's VOICE. A familiar one. Now we hear the rhythmic CREAK of a rocking chair. And with it comes the voice again, humming a HAUNTING LULLABY. 
Wide-eyed, Geoff turns his head toward the source... 
A WOMAN'S NONDESCRIPT FORM is seated in the rocking chair across the room. Rocking forward, her face passes into a swath of moonlight... 
It's Renee. With the rock of the chair, her face recedes back into the shadows. Her soothing HUM remains. 
And again, her face passes into the swath of light. And again it retreats. 
Geoff raises his hand, reaching out for her. 
Renee's hand rises from the shadows, reaching for him. 
But suddenly, THE ROOM BEGINS TO STRETCH. 
The rocking chair and the bed seem distanced like polar extremes, mother and son hopelessly separated by forces beyond their control. 
LIGHTNING FLASHES in the bedside window. Renee is falling farther and farther away. 
GEOFF Mom!!! 
Geoff leaps from his bed as the darkness closes in and... 
GEOFF 
Geoff checks his watch. 
GEOFF I'm late. 
As Geoff heads for the door, Chase is just coming in for the evening. 
CHASE Hey! Where're you off to? 
GEOFF I'm going out, Dad! 
Geoff ducks out the door. Chase turns to Marjorie. 
CHASE Out? 
MARJORIE He's probably going up to the Pet Sematary. Kids've been going out there on Halloween night for years. 
CHASE What do they do up there? 
MARJORIE Oh, you know... drink beer, tell ghost stories. They try and spook each other out, talking about zombies and things... (she shrugs) It's no big deal, Chase. I did it when I was young. 
INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Drew is at the bathroom mirror. 
AMANDA Hold still. Hold still. 
Amanda puts the finishing touches of color on Drew's lips. She's done an alarmingly good job of turning Drew into THE JOKER. 
AMANDA You make sure you're home by ten. If Gus finds out I let you go... 
DREW (sighs) I'll be home, Mom. Don't worry. I won't let Gus blow up again... 
Amanda looks Drew straight in the eyes. 
AMANDA Drew, I know Gus isn't your father, but you never even knew your real father. He walked out on the both of us, and you remember that. (beat) Gus isn't that way. He has it in him to love us both. You just have to give him a chance... 
Drew nods respectfully. Amanda gives him a kiss. Drawing back, she rubs out the lipmarks she's left on his made-up cheek. 
83    OMITTED 
EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT 
Dark clouds paint the foreboding sky. A broken pulse of lightning streaks through the dense haze. 
Abandoning their bikes next to the path, Drew and Geoff approach the archway. The graveyard beyond is deathly silent. 
They pass beneath the archway, entering the clearing. 
And now, a soft, chilling VOICE drifts over the graves. 
VOICE (O.S.) Geoff, honey. Mommy's here... 
Geoff freezes in his tracks, awestruck as... 
A WOMAN'S BODY 
swoops down from the darkness above, materializing out of nowhere. A fluttering negligee. Flowing blonde hair. 
RENEE'S FACE appears out of the shadows, masked with sadness. 
Geoff swallows the lump in his throat. 
Renee's form keeps coming. But even as she approaches, her visage grows less distinguishable. Just a phantom countenance now. A shadow framed by golden hair, resting atop a veiled body... 
She's coming so fast that she's upon Geoff in no time. He fumbles back, startled out of his wits... 
THE BODY is upon him now, flailing wildly. Geoff thrashes and struggles, screaming bloody murder. 
Gradually, he realizes the body isn't fighting back. Geoff eases his struggle, lets his scream fall off. 
Now he hears wild, mischievous LAUGHTER. 
Drew pulls the body away. It's just a heavy wad of stuffed clothing: A DUMMY dressed in a negligee, capped by a blonde wig. It dangles near the end of a slanted wire. 
Clyde, Stevie, Brad, and a half dozen other costumed KIDS appear from the nearby cover of bushes, doubled over in laughter. 
Clyde tugs at a piece of twine that's connected to the back of the dummy's head and makes spooky sounds. The dummy jumps around on the slanted wire. 
Clyde drops the dummy and saunters forward. 
CLYDE Look at this, Junior here practically shit his pants. 
Clyde drops down, nose to nose with Geoff, who's still recovering. 
CLYDE Maybe you're too chicken to hang out with the rest of the boys. You gonna run home to Daddy now? 
Geoff brushes himself off and rises to his feet. He stares into Clyde's eyes. 
GEOFF Fuck off. 
CHASE Take your pick. They're in the boarding area. You can go on back. 
Chase turns away as his phone call is answered. 
CHASE Elliot, it's Chase... 
INT.  LAB/INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE (INTERCUT) - DAY 
ELLIOT RUDMAN has the phone tucked under his chin, in the midst of an autopsy. The WHIRR of the saw drowns out his words as he shaves the dome off a dog's skull. 
CHASE I didn't get that... 
The pathologist turns off the saw. His words become audible. 
RUDMAN ...I said next time it might help if you took the blood sample while the animal was still alive... 
The comment hits Chase out of left field. 
CHASE What? 
RUDMAN I don't know what you expected to find, Matthews. There's nothing wrong with the antigens, nothing to indicate an unusual death... 
CHASE Wait, there must be some mix-up. He was... the dog is alive. 
RUDMAN Not this dog. There wasn't enough oxygen in those red cells to pump life into a flea. 
Chase is baffled, speechless. 
RUDMAN You took over for Doctor Yolander? 
CHASE Yes... why? 
RUDMAN Because the last person that sent me blood from a dead animal was Yolander... 
110   OMITTED THRU 112   OMITTED 
INT.  BOARDING AREA - DAY 
The kennels have been cleaned up, but the room retains its eerie, dimly lit quality. 
The DRIP of a faucet reverberates from the far corner. 
The mother enters with a toddler clinging to each hand. Their smiles fade at the unsettling surroundings. Slowly, they move down the row of kennels. 
TODDLER Where are the kitties? 
INT.  CHASE'S OFFICE - DAY 
CHASE (into the phone) Look, this is ridiculous... 
Suddenly, BLOOD-CURDLING SCREAMS pierce the air. Chase drops the phone and rushes out of the office... 
INT.  BOARDING AREA - DAY 
The toddlers are screaming at the top of their lungs. Mom is burying their heads in her dress. 
Chase bursts in as the mother hastily retreats for the exit. Her horrified eyes flash by Chase. In an instant, she and the toddlers are gone. 
Chase remains alone, moving down the long row of kennels with mounting trepidation... 
Zowie's cage is empty. 
Chase shifts his troubled gaze to the... 
DRIP DRIP DRIP... as a PUDDLE OF BLOOD forms on the floor. 
Chase raises his eyes... 
THE KITTENS' KENNEL - 
Nothing but bloody ribbons of torn flesh are left of the kittens, dangling from the grid gate. DRIPPING. 
Chase looks away as a new level of fear runs through him. 
CHASE Jesus... 
It's too gruesome even for a man of Chase's background. Fighting the gag reflex, he searches the room for the missing dog... 
...and then he spots the broken glass window vent along the floor. And the pile of blood-spattered shards laying on the tile. 
EXT.  SCHOOL, STREET - DAY 
Clyde, Stevie, and Brad are loitering near the front bike racks. Clyde's smoking away. 
As Geoff and Drew come out of the school, the trio moves to intercept them. 
CLYDE Hey! 
Just then, Chase's van pulls at the curb, interrupting whatever trouble was about to happen. 
YOLANDER There's no "blood condition." The dog isn't sick, it's dead. (drawing closer) And so was Creed's cat. And so was his wife the night she was killed for the second time... 
As Yolander moves forward, Chase backs up. He bumps into a whole shelf of stuffed creatures. To his right, A RAVEN sits frozen on its perch. Chase regards Yolander as being completely insane. 
YOLANDER (menacing) You want some advice, friend? You get in your car, you pick up your family... and you get the hell out of that town. 
CHASE Well... uh... thanks... 
Chase continues to back out of the door. On his way out, he bumps into the stuffed raven's perch... 
...only this raven isn't stuffed. It spreads its wings and SCREECHES. 
Chase just about jumps out of his skin, tripping out of the doorway. 
116D  OMITTED THRU 116F  OMITTED 
EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Gus reaches into the cage and grabs a rabbit by the ears. He casually snaps the neck. Laying the limp carcass on a stump cutting board, he quickly skins it. 
Hanging above the cages, there is now a line of furry pelts. Half a dozen. 
Drew and Geoff are on the porch, looking on. 
DREW I guess we're having rabbit for dinner. 
Gus hangs the freshly skinned fur to dry and violently snatches another hare from the cage. 
INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
The dinner from Hell. Geoff splats a helping of mashed potatoes onto his plate, all the while keeping a wary eye on Gus... 
Gus is serving himself a chunk of rabbit. It hits the edge of the plate, teetering on the rim. He passes the dish on. 
Gus meets Geoff's gaze. For a moment, there's a deadened, vacant look in Gus' eyes. Then slowly, a limp smile creeps over him, sending a chill up Geoff's spine. 
Geoff averts Gus' stare. Gus helps himself to potatoes and passes the plate on. He lets go of it short of reaching Drew. Only Drew's quick hands save it from hitting the table. 
Amanda comes to the table with a dish of LIMA BEANS. She casts Gus a cold, hateful stare and sets the limas down. She's still angry over last night. 
Gus dishes a sloppy scoop and passes it toward Drew. Like before, he lets it drop too early. This time Drew doesn't save it. The lima beans shower the floor. 
AMANDA God damnit, Gus! This isn't funny! 
Amanda fetches a dishtowel and kneels to clean up the mess. 
Geoff and Drew exchange quick glances. As Geoff reaches for the salt... 
...Gus intercepts his wrist. Geoff gulps. 
Gus drops his jaw, revealing a gooey mass of food. But the frozen smile and the look in his eyes convey dementia rather than playfulness. 
Geoff and Drew can't believe their eyes. They laugh uncomfortably. There's no other response. 
Gus LAUGHS too... awkward, terrible laughter. Spitting out food over his shirt and plate as he does so. 
The boys stop laughing, but Gus just keeps on going. 
Amanda stares at Gus and carries the mess out of the room. 
Through his laughter, Gus' bandage has slipped down, exposing part of his ragged wound. The wound glistens, oozing CLOTTED BLOOD and GOOEY PUS. 
Drew hesitantly reaches for Gus' neck, readjusting the bandage. 
Grossed out, Geoff averts his eyes and sets his fork aside. 
INT.  DREW'S ROOM - LATER 
Geoff and Drew enter. Drew swiftly secures the deadbolts on his door. 
GEOFF What was that all about? You think he's trying to scare us? 
DREW I don't know but I'm not taking any chances... 
Drew opens the chest at the foot of his bed and produces a SHOTGUN. A box full of shells spill as he withdraws the gun. Cracking open the chamber, Drew loads two shells into the chamber. 
EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT 
A moonlit horizon. Unmoving. Silent. The kind of silence that pulls at the darkest recesses of imagination. 
And now, A LONE FIGURE appears on the horizon. It's Zowie, moving at a deliberate pace. 
ATOP A KNOLL 
Zowie takes pause. The TINKLING of his collar tags resumes as he drops over the horizon line, cutting down the hill. 
INT.  CHASE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Chase sits in the den, looking exhausted and disheveled. In front of him, the t.v. is on. RENEE'S FACE stares out at us. Chase hits the remote and rises, moving to the back door. 
Chase is bare-chested at the mirror, applying a dressing to the dog bite on his shoulder. 
Marjorie appears in the doorway with a basket of laundry. She stops short at the sight of Chase standing there in his boxers. 
Chase catches her reflection in the mirror and is startled. 
MARJORIE I didn't mean to... I was going to empty the hamper... 
Chase turns, shaking off the scare. 
CHASE It's okay. 
Marjorie's eyes can't help but fix on the dog bites scattered over Chase's chest and arms. 
MARJORIE What happened to you? 
CHASE I had a little run-in with Zowie. 
MARJORIE You sure did... 
Marjorie sets the laundry aside. 
MARJORIE Here, let me do that... 
Marjorie looks over the antiseptics Chase has laid out on the sink. Saturating a wad of gauze with hydrogen peroxide, she gently cleanses the gashes on his arms. 
There's nothing overtly sexual in her actions, but the gentleness of her touch doesn't go unnoticed by Chase. 
MARJORIE I hope he doesn't have rabies. 
CHASE He doesn't. I don't know what he has, but I'm hoping to God it's not infectious... 
Chase stops and looks at Marjorie's reflection in the mirror. 
CHASE Marjorie... what do you know about the Creed murders? 
Marjorie stiffens for a moment. Obviously the Creeds are a sore spot for the people in this town. 
MARJORIE Did you ever play that game where you pass a story down a row of people and see how screwed up it gets by the time it's done? People say Louis Creed's son came back from the dead and it drove him crazy... (she rolls her eyes) He killed his wife and himself, and that's the end of story. Anything else belongs in the National Enquirer. 
Marjorie tapes the bandage over Chase's shoulder too tight. Chase's groan snaps her back to the reality at hand. 
MARJORIE Sorry. Now tell me what that has to do with Zowie? 
Chase closes his eyes, shutting out the pain. 
CHASE I wish I knew. 
INT.  LIBRARY - DAY 
Chase approaches the counter, looking to the ELDERLY LIBRARIAN for assistance. 
LIBRARIAN What are you looking for, Hon. 
CHASE Do you have anything on the Creed murders? I can't find the microfilm from that period... 
The librarian's smile vanishes. She lowers her voice, focusing her attention on some paperwork. 
LIBRARIAN We don't keep anything on file from that far back. 
CHASE But you've got files from the previous years... 
LIBRARIAN We have nothing on the Creed murders, sir. Can I get you something else? 
Chase looks around and realizes that a dozen hostile eyes are on him. TOWNSPEOPLE withholding a dark secret. 
Chase slowly backs away, eager to escape the field of hostile stares. 
127   OMITTED THRU 129   OMITTED 
EXT.  HIGHWAY, COUNTRY BRIDGE - DAY 
Geoff and Drew have parked their bikes beneath the bridge. They sit on the bank of the creek below, watching the water run past. Geoff is lost in thought. 
GEOFF Do you think everyone that came back would be like Gus? 
DREW I don't know... (thinking) ...maybe it depends on what you were like before you... 
GEOFF (finishing) Dies? 
Drew nods. He tosses a stone into the creek, then looks up at the sun and sighs. 
DREW I gotta go back and do my chores... 
GEOFF Go later... 
Drew shakes his head. 
DREW I can't. Gus'd kill me if I showed up late. 
GUS Go home. 
But Geoff remains frozen. Gus fixes him with a stare that could turn flesh to stone. 
GUS I said... GO HOME!! 
Geoff snaps out of it and flips his bike over. He gets a running start, making a beeline for the highway without ever looking back. 
ON THE KNOLL NEARBY 
Drew stops short of the ravine, watching from afar as Gus steps toward Clyde. 
BELOW - 
Clyde throws up his hands. He's frightened, but he tries to muster up a cocky front. 
CLYDE Come on, Gus, I was just fucking with him... (nervous laughter) What're you gonna do? Give me a ticket? I mean, shit, Gus... 
Clyde grows increasingly wary of Gus' evil stare. Gus steps closer. 
CLYDE You can't lay a finger on me... 
Wrong. Gus lashes out, backhanding Clyde across the face. 
Clyde falls to the ground, flat on his back, with his nose gushing blood. Terrified. 
Gus turns around and lifts the idling motorcycle. With one hand under the back of the seat, and the other working the accelerator handlebar, Gus advances toward Clyde. 
Gus kicks the bike into gear and REVS the accelerator. 
THE REAR WHEEL SPINS. On the pavement it would be moving forty miles an hour. 
Clyde can't believe his eyes. Pleading. 
CLYDE Gus... what are you doing? 
GUS I'm just fucking with you... 
Gus plants his foot against Clyde's chest, pinning him, and lowers the spinning rear wheel TOWARD CLYDE'S NECK. The wheel WHINES like a circular saw. 
Gus lowers the wheel. Then jerks it away, flashing a sadistic smile. 
Just when Clyde thinks Gus is backing off, the wheel comes down again... 
CLYDE (wailing) Stop it, man! Stop it!!! 
Gus gets into the rhythm as he lowers and retracts the spinning wheel at the terrified bully. 
But this time, as the wheel comes down... 
CLYDE'S WOOL SCARF, defying gravity, gets swept up, swallowed into the GEARS. 
And along with the scarf, here comes Clyde's SCREAMING face. We can only imagine the gruesome instant that follows. 
BLOOD sprays up over Gus' arms and chest. And then we hear the sound of CRUNCHING BONES jamming the motorcycle's gears. 
GUS (dead-pan) Whoops. 
He bares his teeth in a death's head grin. 
ON THE KNOLL 
Drew has witnessed the killing. He's mortified. 
BELOW - 
Gus tosses the bloody motorcycle aside, slowly raising his eyes up to where Drew stands. His eyes meet Drew's. 
Drew hastily jerks his bike around and takes off. 
Gus starts after him on foot. 
INT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DAY 
Drew rushes through the front door, SLAMMING it behind him and throwing the deadbolt. 
INT.  BEDROOM - DAY 
Drew climbs onto his bed and grabs his shotgun from the gun rack. His fingers shake as he flips off the safety. 
DREW Oh man... 
Just then we hear the CRACKLE of a POLICE P.A. and Gus' amplified VOICE coming from the yard outside. 
GUS (V.O.) (mocking) This is the Police, come out of the house with your hands up! 
Gus finishes his words with a burst of FEEDBACK and then amplified MANIACAL LAUGHTER. 
Drew's eyes go wide with terror. He creeps out into the hall, clutching the gun. 
Drew grabs a chair and HEAVES it through the window... 
GUS (O.S.) ...OR ARE YOU JUST TOO FUCKING STUPID?! 
The bedroom door EXPLODES INWARD and Gus claws his way into the room... 
Wasting no time, Drew climbs through the broken window... 
EXT.  DREW'S HOUSE - DAY 
Drew slides down the slant of the roof. He hits the lattice and takes it to the ground with him. 
Untangling himself, he gets to his feet... 
...and here comes Amanda, ARRIVING HOME. 
Drew runs for her car, waving his hands, throwing himself into her path so she'll go no further. She SLAMS on the brakes. 
Drew pulls open the passenger door and dives inside... 
DREW Gus killed Clyde, Mom! He's trying to kill me! 
Just then, the BACK DOOR flies open. Gus steps out. 
GUS Drew, buddy! Daddy's not done yet! 
Amanda spots the hammer hanging from his grip. Gus cracks a sick smile and FLINGS THE HAMMER at the car... 
CRACK! The hammer bounces off the windshield, causing it to spiderweb. 
DREW Go Mom! Go!!! 
That's all the convincing Amanda needs. She puts the car into reverse and stomps on the gas... 
INT.  CAR - DAY 
Speeding down the highway. Drew and Amanda are mortified. 
Suddenly, we hear the WAIL of Gus' patrol car coming up from behind. Amanda looks to the rear-view mirror... 
EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY 
Approaching from the road ahead is a POTATO TRUCK. 
INT.  AMANDA'S CAR - DAY 
Amanda hips her head back in front of them. The potato truck is blaring its HORN. 
Gus' car swerves out onto the shoulder, speeding up to match her pace. 
DREW Mom!!! 
Gus cranks the wheel, jumping back onto the road, forcing Amanda's car into the path of the oncoming truck. 
INT.  POTATO TRUCK - DAY 
THE DRIVER stands on the BRAKES. 
EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY 
THE POTATO TRUCK COLLIDES WITH AMANDA'S CAR. HEAD ON. 
Thousands of potatoes explode from the rear of the truck, obscuring our view. 
WE HEAR THE HORRIFYING SOUNDS OF CRUNCHING METAL. CRUNCHING BONES. AND SILENCED CRIES. 
Gus' vehicle speeds past. WE HOLD on the mess of twisted steel. Clearly there are no survivors. 
INT.  GEOFF'S HOUSE - DUSK 
Geoff enters first. Wearing a dark suit. Looking pale and empty inside. Chase follows, dressed in black. It's obvious they've been to a funeral. 
Without a word, Geoff heads up the stairs. Chase watches on, feeling utterly helpless. 
INT.  UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY 
Chase exits from his bedroom, pulling a sweater over a more casual change of clothes. He cocks his head at the SOUNDS of Geoff moving about in the attic above. 
The door atop the attic stairway is barely ajar. 
Chase wrinkles his brow, concerned. Turning away, he heads downstairs. 
INT.  KITCHEN - DAY 
Marjorie is preparing dinner. Across the room, the kitchen TV is playing... 
ON TELEVISION is the evening news. A photo of Drew and Amanda appears above the NEWSCASTER. 
NEWSCASTER ... Friends and neighbors came to pay respects for Drew and Amanda Gilbert, who died in a head-on collision Saturday... 
From out of the darkness... 
RENEE'S HAND 
ENTERS FRAME, gently touching Geoff's side. And with its arrival, so comes her eerie LULLABY. 
RENEE (a whisper) I need you, Geoff... 
GEOFF 
slowly raises his head, bewildered. Renee's hand withdraws into the darkness. He reaches out for her, but she's gone. The LULLABY remains, beckoning from down the attic stairs. 
The attic door slowly swings open of its own accord. 
Geoff rises from the bed and follows. 
INT.  DOWNSTAIRS FOYER - NIGHT 
Geoff looks into the living room as he passes. Marjorie has fallen asleep on the sofa with the TV on. 
155   OMITTED 
EXT.  PET SEMATARY - NIGHT 
The lullaby drifts from beyond the deadfall. The fog rolls inward, towards the distant burial ground. As Geoff moves towards the deadfall, the fog converges around him. 
157   OMITTED 
EXT.  THE BOG - NIGHT 
The lure of Renee's lullaby pulls Geoff deeper into the woods. We hear the unearthly ANIMAL HOWL once more. 
159   OMITTED THRU 167   OMITTED 
EXT.  PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - NIGHT 
Chase's van pulls to a stop behind a maintenance vehicle. 
Chase is greeted by the limping CARETAKER, who quickly leads him off across the rolling hillside. 
CARETAKER ...sorry to disturb you, Doctor Matthews, but I thought you'd want to come have a look for yourself. It's the damndest thing... 
AT RENEE'S GRAVE - 
Chase stops cold, gazing at the ground before him in disbelief... 
The grave is a gaping cavity. The casket has been unearthed. Renee's body is missing. 
CHASE Jesus... (uncomprehending) Gus did this?! 
CARETAKER (nodding) He stuck around after the funeral. Told me he had an order to exhume your wife. I didn't think much of it until I saw him drag the body out of the coffin... (shakes his head) He put your wife in his truck and drove off right through Amanda and Drew's headstones... 
The caretaker points across the hillside... 
TIRE TRACKS cut through the manicured grass, cutting a path of destruction right through the field of headstones and on through the fence. 
CARETAKER I swear, nothing this weird has happened since Louis Creed dug up his boy... (beat) You want me to notify the authorities? 
Chase doesn't answer, he just storms past the caretaker. 
INT.  VAN - NIGHT 
The van is speeding down the dark, open highway. Chase is on the car phone, frantic, waiting as it RINGS. There's finally an answer... 
CHASE Doctor Yolander, this is Chase Matthews, we spoke the other day... 
Yolander cuts him off. 
YOLANDER'S VOICE (bitter) You didn't leave town, did you. 
INT.  YOLANDER'S HOUSE (INTERCUT) 
Yolander sits in the darkness, a bottle of whiskey and a tumbler at his side. His "creatures" are all around him, eyes glowing with reflected moonlight. His voice is slurred. The voice of someone who's already damned. 
YOLANDER You sorry bastard. You stayed. I have nothing more to say to you, Matthews... 
CHASE'S VOICE (desperate) Look, just tell me one thing. Did I treat an animal that had been brought back to life? Did I?! 
YOLANDER What do you think? 
INT.  CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT 
Chase grips the carphone tightly, his knuckles white. 
YOLANDER (V.O.) Believe what you saw, Matthews. The dog was dead. 
CHASE My God... (mounting horror) ...how is that possible? You have to help me, Doctor Yolander. I don't know what I'm dealing with here! They've dug up my wife... 
YOLANDER'S VOICE (cutting him off) I'm retired from my practice, Matthews. It's your practice now, and it's your problem. (beat) God help you... 
Chase's headlights stream through the windows, distorting the interior. The house looks like it's been through a tornado. A trail of BLOODY PAW PRINTS leads into the kitchen. The stench is repulsive. Grimacing, Chase has to keep himself from gagging. 
CHASE Jesus... 
As Chase moves forward, he catches sight of... 
GUS 
standing in a swath of light. At Gus' feet is Zowie, tongue lolling out of his mouth. Dead for the second time. Scattered around the dog are various tools. 
Propped against the wall is the cut out square of wood. It's fitted with hinges at the top. 
CHASE Gus, what are you doing?! 
Gus glances down at the dead dog. 
GUS (dead-pan) I was building a doggy door. 
CHASE God damn it Gus, you dug up my wife! What the fuck is going on around here?! 
Gus brings a cordless electric drill up from his side, pointing it at Chase in a threatening manner. 
GUS (grins) A little drilling. A little killing. 
As Gus moves forward, Chase gets a good look at him for the first time. He doesn't look even remotely alive. 
CHASE Holy shit! 
Chase levels his gun with a trembling hand. 
Gus stabs the air with the drill, feeding on Chase's horror. 
Chase pulls the trigger. A bullet pounds Gus' chest. A SPRAY OF FLESH explodes from his back. 
Unphased, Gus regains his balance. 
GUS God I hate when that happens... 
Before Chase can squeeze off the next round, Gus rips the gun from his grip... 
GUS You got a permit for that? 
Opening the chamber, Gus empties the remaining bullets and tosses the gun aside. 
GUS Didn't think so. 
Gus fires up the drill. The bit spinZZZZZZ. He DIVES at Chase, knocking him back against the counter. The drill bit SINKS INTO CHASE'S ARM... 
Chase SCREAMS as Gus withdraws it. Now, he presses it into Chase's shoulder. Chase is on the verge of blacking out now. The pain is unbearable... 
Gus withdraws the drill once again, aiming now for Chase's eye. 
GUS (maniacal) No brain, no pain, Chase. Think about it... 
The whirling drill bit is millimeters away from Chase's eye. He clutches Gus' arm, trying to force the drill aside... 
At the last second, adrenaline kicks in and Chase diverts the drill. It SINKS INTO the counter-top nearby... STUCK. 
Gus ROARS, lashing out, but Chase manages to duck away... 
Chase catches sight of HIS GUN on the floor. He scrambles for it, scooping it up... 
BULLETS are rolling across the floor every which way. Chase slaps his palm down on one and desperately fumbles with the chamber... 
Gus' hands CLAMP DOWN around Chase's neck. He swings Chase around and SLAMS him against the wall, lifting him off his feet... 
Chase GASPS as the life is literally crushed out of him... 
He brings the gun up beneath Gus' chin and jams it into his ruined throat. Gus just keeps on throttling him... 
GUS (insane) Just remember, Chase... I had Renee first... and now I'm gonna have her last... 
BLAM! The top of Gus' head BLOWS off. His BODY is thrown back by the incredible force, tumbling him to the kitchen floor with a HEAVY THUD. 
Chase sucks in precious air, then his head snaps up. 
CHASE Geoff! 
EXT.  GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT 
Chase stumbles from the house. It's a wonder he's even conscious. He swings open the van door and throws himself inside, sinking the key into the ignition. 
INT.  ATTIC - NIGHT 
Marjorie is now seated before Renee's theatrical make-up mirror, entranced. She's wearing the beaded peach dress. 
With the help of Renee's vast array of cosmetics, Marjorie has turned herself into a stunning beauty. 
The lipstick isn't quite right. Turning to the countertop magnifying mirror, she carefully touches up her ruby red lips. Her face fills nearly the entire mirror... 
CHASE (shaking his head) No... 
RENEE Don't you love me anymore, Chase? 
CHASE You're not Renee... Renee's dead... (screaming) Geoff! Get over here now! 
But Geoff just holds his mother tighter. A hint of annoyance flickers through Renee's eyes. She strokes Geoff's hair. 
RENEE (looking at Chase) Geoff, honey, why don't you go downstairs. Your father and I need a moment alone. Do it for me? 
Geoff looks up at his mother, mesmerized. She releases him from the embrace. He brushes past Chase without a glance and heads for the attic door. 
RENEE Geoff... 
Geoff pauses at the door, looking back. Renee's words have a hauntingly familiar ring... 
RENEE I love you. 
Geoff smiles. Turning away, he opens the door and... 
CLYDE 
is standing there, an AXE perched on his shoulder. His face is torn to shit, bones and brain matter exposed. He's covered from head to toe in dirt and clotted blood. He looks worse than any of the undead we've seen. A total walking nightmare. 
CLYDE (grinning) Hey, Junior. Wanna play? 
WHOOSH! Clyde swings the axe, sinking it into the wall just in front of Geoff's face... 
Geoff tumbles back onto the floor, snapping out of his trance. 
Clyde brings the axe down... 
...and Geoff rolls to the side, barely avoiding decapitation. 
CHASE Geoff! 
Chase stumbles forward to rescue his son. As he does so, Clyde brings the axe back up, SMASHING Chase in the head with the blunt end... 
Chase goes down. Unconscious. 
CLYDE Oops! Looks like Daddy got a boo- boo... 
Clyde turns his gaze back on Geoff. 
CLYDE Now, where were we? 
Geoff shuffles backwards across the floor as Clyde moves into the room. 
Renee passes behind Clyde. She SLAMS the attic door shut and snaps off the knob with a jerk of the wrist, locking them all inside. 
Scared out of his wits, Geoff makes it to his feet. Clyde swings again and misses... 
Geoff grabs hold of the axe handle, struggling, and the two boys go down... 
RENEE 
Moves to the vanity. She sweeps a hand across it, sending everything crashing to the ground. Crystal perfume bottles SHATTER, spilling their contents over the floor. 
Renee reaches for a lighter and flicks it on. She touches the flame to the perfume-soaked floor... 
FLAMES roar into existence, racing across the floorboards, igniting the curtains... 
We see the flames reflected in Renee's soulless eyes. 
ON GEOFF AND CLYDE 
As they wrestle with one another across the floor. Bloody spittle drips from Clyde's face. He flashes a feral snarl. 
Clyde LUNGES forward and tears into Geoff's shoulder with his teeth... 
Geoff SCREAMS. His hands grope blindly for a weapon and close on a mirror shard. He JABS it up and into Clyde's eye... 
Somehow, Geoff manages to roll out from under Clyde. He rises to his feet... 
Clyde lets loose a DEMONIC ROAR. He charges, SLASHING the axe wildly, knocking aside curtains and dressing models alike. Nothing's going to stop him. Nothing. 
Flames are consuming the attic, licking the rafters, igniting the canopy drapings... devouring everything. SMOKE is rolling across the floor... 
Geoff reaches a far wall. He's trapped in a corner. There's nowhere else to go. Behind Geoff is a CIRCUIT BOX. INSULATED CABLES run from the box down through the attic floor. Geoff turns... 
And here comes Clyde... 
CLYDE Here it comes, buddy! HERE IT FUCKING COMES!!! 
Clyde swings. Geoff ducks. The axe hits the circuit box behind him, severing the insulated cables... 
As Clyde rips the axe out of the wall for another try, Geoff reaches for one of the SPARKING CABLES. 
Clyde raises the axe above his head... 
