Phone Booth 
PHONE BOOTH 
by 
Larry Cohen 
FADE IN: 
NEW YORK CITY - AERIAL VIEW OF DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN - DAY 
MULTIPLE STREET SCENES - DAY 
The sidewalks crowded as usual.  A sea of humanity.  People come and go -- always in a hurry.  Oblivious of one another. 
A TRAFFIC JAM -- A STREET being torn up by construction workers; A SANITATION TRUCK loading up refuse; VENDORS PEDDLING nuts and salted pretzels; PANHANDLERS blocking a passerby.  Intimidating.  Demanding.  Almost mocking. 
We're surrounded by the teeming life of the city as we've come to expect it -- complete with a cacophony of sound. 
MULTIPLE CUTS -- Phone kiosks and phone booths on the East Side and West Side -- uptown and down. 
One frustrated caller has lost his money in the slot and he takes it out on the equipment -- smashing the receiver violently against the coin box until the instrument splinters into a dozen pieces. 
NARRATOR There are 237,911 pay telephones in the five burroughs of the city of New York.  Many of them are still in working order. 
DOZENS OF QUICK CUTS -- 
NEW YORKERS on the phone in extreme close up.  We don't hear the words.  Only the facial expressions inform us that these are human beings under tremendous pressure.  Life in the city is wearing them down. 
MULTIPLE SHOTS - JUST MOUTHS 
Lips jabbering into receivers.  Cross-cut against one another. 
NARRATOR Despite increased usage of cellular devices, an estimated four and a half million New Yorkers and two million visitors still utilize pay telephones on a regular basis.  At thirty-five cents a pop... for the first three minutes. 
ANGLE ON CORNER IN MID-MANHATTAN - DAY 
There's a phone booth situated on the southeast side of the street. 
NARRATOR You're looking at the telephone booth at the corner of 45th Street and 8th Avenue in the heart of the Manhattan theatrical district.  It has been scheduled to be removed and replaced by a kiosk.  It's one of the few remaining phone booths left in the city. 
CAMERA MOVES IN on the irate caller in the booth -- a very well-dressed gray-haired lady -- totally conservative in appearance. 
WOMAN IN BOOTH (into receiver) You have lied to me for the last time, you lowlife prick bastard!  I don't ever want to hear the sound of your fucking voice again. (listens) Yes, well fuck you, too! 
She slams down the receiver and exits.  The booth remains vacant for a brief interval. 
NARRATOR At least three hundred calls daily originate from this booth.  The coins are collected twice a day. This booth has been burglarized forty-one times in the last six months. 
Someone is approaching the booth, fishing in his pocket for coins.  This is STUART SHEPARD, snappily dressed, his hair styled and his nails manicured.  Here is a man who clearly takes excellent care of himself.  He sports a Donna Karen suit and silk Armani tie. 
He's about to step into the booth when he's accosted by a middle-aged man in a soiled apron who's run out of a nearby restaurant and has finally caught up with him. 
MARIO Stu, we got to talk. 
STU Wish I could accommodate you, Mario, but this is my busy time of day. 
MARIO How come you cross the street every time you go past the restaurant? 
STU Why don't I stop in later for some lunch? 
STU Who is this? 
VOICE Someone who's watching you. 
STU Get lost! 
VOICE Love the gray suit.  That red and black tie makes a nice combination. 
Stu is taken back by the accurate description of his apparel. He looks around nervously. 
STU Where?  Where are you? 
VOICE Closer than you think. 
STU I don't see you. 
VOICE There are any number of windows. Check them out. 
Indeed that street corner is surrounded by high rise buildings and hotels. 
STU Okay, you had your little joke. 
VOICE I'm not sufficiently amused.  Not yet.  We have more to talk about. 
Stu knows he should simply hang up but something tells him not to.  Perhaps it's the strange tone of the man's voice. 
STU Do me a favor.  Call up somebody else. 
VOICE But it's you I'm interested in. You know how many people use that booth every day? 
STU Why don't you tell me? 
VOICE Better than two-hundred people on average. 
STU Is that what you do?  Count them? 
VOICE What else do I have to do?  It's interesting watching people. Trying to guess who they are.  And what they're up to. 
STU What are you -- a shut-in of some kind? 
VOICE You might say that.  I can't go out.  I might be seen. 
STU Somebody's looking for you? 
VOICE Desperately. 
STU The cops? 
VOICE Not yet. 
STU The ex-wife.  What'd you do -- run out on child support? 
VOICE What kind of man do you think I am? 
STU Frankly, I could care less.  You had your fun.  Now goodbye. 
VOICE It's not in your best interests to hang up on me.  That would make me angry. 
STU Isn't that just too bad? 
VOICE For you. 
VOICE You're only making it easier for me to do you harm. 
STU Oh yeah.  Right.  Can you see how I'm trembling? 
VOICE You will be. 
STU Shit, this is a new one.  Fucking threatening calls in a goddam phone booth.  When are you going to start with the heavy breathing. 
VOICE I'm not the degenerate.  You are, Stu. 
STU You don't know anything about me. 
VOICE Infinitely more than you know about me. 
STU Like what? 
VOICE Like the number you dialed when you first entered the booth. 
STU How would you know that? 
VOICE I'm watching through a scope and I could clearly read the buttons you pushed.  I have another extension here by the window.  Shall I dial that same number back for you? Would that convince you? 
Stu nervously cranes his neck, looking around at all the tall buildings that surround the street corner. 
STU'S POV 
PANNING up at thousands of windows.  The Voice could be coming from anywhere. 
BACK TO STU IN THE BOOTH 
VOICE Let's see who's on the other end of the line. 
STU Don't. 
VOICE Too late. (beat) It's already ringing.  I'll hold the receiver up so you can listen in. 
Stu can hear the beeping as the other line rings. 
Then Mavis' voice can be heard answering.  Stu listens helplessly. 
MAVIS' VOICE Hello? 
VOICE Well, hello. 
MAVIS' VOICE Who is this? 
VOICE Someone who's really tight with your boyfriend -- who just called you from his favorite phone booth. 
MAVIS' VOICE You know Stu? 
VOICE Stu?  Oh, I know him better than anyone.  What he does -- how he thinks.  How he lies. 
MAVIS' VOICE Who the hell is this? 
VOICE Stu is listening in.  He knows what we're both saying. 
MAVIS' VOICE Stu?  Is that true?  Are you there? 
VOICE He doesn't feel like talking. 
STU (shouts) Mavis!  Just hang up the goddam phone. 
VOICE Why don't you tell me what you think of us? 
MAVIS' VOICE You're both disgusting. 
VOICE That's what he said about you. Well, if Stu didn't have the balls to come out and tell you the truth, I felt it was my responsibility to clear the air.  Goodbye now, Mavis. Thanks for your time. (the phone clicks off; we hear only a dial tone) Back to you again, Stu. 
STU You total asshole!  How could you do that? 
VOICE Speaking of females, that woman hovering outside the booth -- may as well tell her that you'll be on the line forever. 
STU Like hell I will. 
VOICE I'm ready for you to take out your cellular and phone home.  And this time, I'll listen in. 
STU There's no chance of that. 
VOICE Or should I call Kelly and make up something totally outrageous?  You must realize by now I have a vivid imagination. 
STU You don't know our phone number! 
VOICE Are you absolutely sure?  I may have been watching you on a regular basis.  Keeping track of all the numbers I see you dial. 
STU And I'm supposed to believe that? 
VOICE I've put a great deal of preparation into this -- prior to actually saying hello.  Now do you want to dial 832-7165 -- or should I? 
The sound of the actual number being spoken shocks him even more than the earlier mention of his name. 
STU What are you going to tell her? 
VOICE You'll do the talking. 
STU What am I supposed to say? 
VOICE Try telling her the truth. 
STU Look, I don't want to hurt Kelly. She's always there for me.  It's just my nature to have a little 'strange' on the side.  It doesn't mean shit. 
VOICE But you still find it necessary? 
STU Kind of like having a beautiful home.  With everything you ever dreamed of.  But you still need that vacation now and then.  Some nice hotel room with a great view. Maybe a pool.  Only you wouldn't want to spend more than a few days in any hotel.  Eventually, you want to go back to your home and all your stuff.  You're real glad to check out. 
VOICE Kelly is home and Mavis is a hotel? I'm sure they'll both appreciate that explanation. 
STU You're ruining my fucking life, you sonofabitch. 
VOICE Didn't I warn you about calling me names?  It makes me vindictive. 
STU What else can you do to me? 
VOICE We haven't even begun. 
STU She's not home.  She went out. 
VOICE I'll bet she's back.  Now hold the cellular up where I can see it -- so I can be certain you don't misdial on me. (pause) A little higher and to your left. Now I have it in perfect view. Dial slowly. 
More violent rapping on the glass from the persistent black lady outside. 
FELICIA If you got you a cell phone, how come you taking up the whole fucking booth!  This here's an emergency! 
STU There's another booth on the next block. 
KELLY'S VOICE Are you sure you're alone?  I hear somebody in the background. 
STU The guy in the next booth.  He's got a bad connection and he's hollering his fool head off. 
VOICE You've got an answer for everything. 
STU I love you, baby. 
KELLY'S VOICE Do you? 
STU You know that. 
KELLY'S VOICE Stu -- who was that man? 
STU What man? 
KELLY'S VOICE Some person who phoned fifteen minutes ago -- just after you went out. 
STU I don't understand... 
KELLY'S VOICE This total stranger rang up and told me to wait by the phone -- because you'd be calling me in a few minutes -- from a booth.  And I said what would he be doing in any phone booth? 
STU And what did this guy say? 
KELLY'S VOICE He said you'd be making phone calls.  What else? 
STU Making calls is part of my business. 
KELLY'S VOICE To whom? 
STU Clients.  People.  Planting items like I do. 
KELLY'S VOICE Women? 
STU Once in a while one of them could be a woman.  I just called "Elaine's" and talked to her to see who was in there last night. 
KELLY'S VOICE You know exactly what I mean. 
STU You're not going to start that shit again? 
KELLY'S VOICE I just feel something is wrong. 
STU What could be wrong? 
KELLY'S VOICE The way you sound.  You don't sound like yourself. 
STU Yeah?  Who do I sound like? 
KELLY'S VOICE Someone who's scared.  There's fear in your voice like I've never heard before. 
VOICE See, Stu?  Kelly agrees with me. 
KELLY'S VOICE I want you to come back home.  Now! 
STU I told you.  In a while. 
KELLY'S VOICE No.  I want you here now.  In case he calls back, I don't want to answer again. 
STU Why should he call back? 
KELLY'S VOICE I feel like he's going to. 
STU Let's see.  Who does she like?  Who couldn't be reached to deny it? 
VOICE I'm anxious to see you in action. Don't keep me waiting. 
Stu uses his cellular again. 
STU (dialing) Sometimes you only get her service. (into cellular) Hi -- Stu Shepard.  Put me through. I've got hard news for her.  I can only talk to her directly.  But say it regards -- Liza. 
VOICE Liza?  That was imaginative. 
STU (into cellular) No, I can't call back.  I'll have to lay in on somebody else. Alright, but I can't hang on long. (to pay phone) She's coming on. (to cellular) Liz, hello.  Sure I'll make it brief.  Killing two weeks ago in the theatre district?  Turn out a sniper did the job.  Yeah, a sniper with a rifle.  Now he's got another victim lined up.  Not just your anonymous New Yorker, but Liza. Now you can't call anybody or Ms. Minelli's dead meat and so am I. She's hostage in a phone booth right in the sniper's sights.  But he says he'll talk to you and let her walk.  I know it'll take balls to do this, but you're a fine and courageous newspaper woman... 
There's a click.  Silence. 
STU Hello?  Hello? (to pay phone) Either she's on her way over or she doesn't believe me. 
VOICE You weren't particularly convincing. 
STU I didn't really believe in what I was saying. 
VOICE Because you don't really believe my Remington is pointed at you? 
STU I do. 
VOICE You're ninety percent sure. 
STU At least ninety-five percent, easy. 
VOICE Let me erase all doubt. 
STU No.  Don't shoot. 
VOICE Control yourself, Stu.  Glance down at your chest.  What do you see. 
STU Oh, my God.  A dot.  A fucking red dot. 
A tiny red dot now moves across Stu's chest. 
VOICE Like you've seen in the movies? 
STU The laser dot.  Just before some poor bastard always gets blown away. 
VOICE Usually a supporting player.  That lovely but by now generic special effect of the bullet piercing the forehead. 
The tiny red laser dot dances around Stu's chest and stomach -- the jumps up and remains between his eyes. 
VOICE This takes all the guesswork out of it.  You know exactly where to expect it before I even tighten my finger on the trigger. 
STU Don't tighten.  Don't even tickle that fucking finger. 
VOICE How about Geraldo?  He's run his ass off to get in on this. 
STU You're talking about the old Geraldo.  Look, I can try and reach cable NBC.  They're hungry. 
VOICE I'm disappointed.  I wanted to go first class. 
STU They do a great job.  They'll haul a whole crew over to cover your surrender "live." 
VOICE I never expressed interest in giving myself up.  There are so many other phone booths in the city.  I'm just getting warmed up. 
STU That's entirely up to you.  Your choice.  I'm just trying to set you up with the proper communicator. (beat) I suppose Liza wasn't strong enough.  I should've said Madonna. 
FELICIA The man don't sound like he means it. 
LEON I agree. (to Stu) Why don't you hang up a minute so we can discuss this matter at length. 
STU It's long distance.  I can't lose the call -- I might not get them back. 
LEON Do I have to rip that fucking phone out of there? 
STU That wouldn't be a good idea. (into pay phone) Would it? 
VOICE Not at all. 
STU I gave you everything I've got. 
LEON That pinky ring looks attractive. Felicia might like that. 
FELICIA It might fit. 
STU You want the ring, you've got the ring.  If I can get it off. 
LEON I can get it off you. 
Leon reaches in and grabs Stu's ring hand. 
STU Let go of me!  It's coming loose. There. (he tosses it) Okay, Felicia, with my deepest apologies.  Goodbye now. 
LEON What's really going on in that booth -- that escapes the naked eye? 
STU Nothing.  Talk.  That's all. 
LEON That your connection on the end of the line?  Or are you dealing? 
STU This has nothing to do with drugs. 
LEON You gotta be high on something to willingly divest yourself of your valuables -- just to maintain occupancy of a fucking phone booth that the local bums piss in every night. 
STU I knew it smelled for some reason. 
LEON You look like you're ready to piss yourself. 
STU Because I am. 
LEON Maybe if the city provided decent public toilets, folks wouldn't relieve themselves in the subway stations and phone booths! 
STU I'll take it up with the mayor. 
LEON Next thing you know you're gonna claim we mugged you -- took your billfold and watch. 
STU No, you didn't.  It was a fair and equitable deal.  You had territorial rights to this booth and I paid a license fee.  Fair is fair.  Now leave me in peace. 
LEON You sure you're alright? (to Felicia) He don't look well. 
FELICIA Kind of pale.  Even for a white man. 
LEON Jaundice they calls it.  Probably advanced liver trouble. (to Stu) If it's cirrhosis, you better find yourself a twelve step program and quick. 
STU Thanks for your interest but I'm in perfect health. 
FELICIA So how come his hand is shaking? 
LEON The man is cracking up. 
But Leon continues rocking the booth.  It won't come loose -- so in frustration, he punches in a side pane of glass. 
The glass shatters all around Stu, who does his best to shield himself from the slivers. 
STU (into pay phone) The guy's insane! 
VOICE Only one way to stop a mad dog. Give me permission. 
STU I can't. 
VOICE If he forces you out of that booth, I've told you what to expect.  You or him, Stu. 
Leon is smashing other panes of glass now -- one after another -- as Stu cowers inside. 
FELICIA Don't cut yourself, honey. 
A crowd of derelicts and street people are now gathering to watch the out of control pimp take out his wrath on the booth and its occupant. 
DERELICT Looks like the fucker is comin' loose. 
STREET PERSON Shove it out into the oncoming traffic. 
DERELICT What'll you bet the bus could knock that fifty feet? 
The booth is being decimated but Stu hangs onto the phone. 
STU (into pay phone) Hello?  Hello? 
VOICE (with heavy static) You're breaking up.  We're about to be cut off. 
STU I can't help it! 
VOICE That counts as a hang-up. 
STU No.  It can't.  That's not fair. 
VOICE I can still make him stop.  Say the word.  Can you hear me? 
STU Yes. 
Stu sees the red dot reappear on Leon's chest as he continues to barrage the booth with punches and kicks. 
Then Leon recoils, staggers a step backward.  He doesn't realize he's been shot. 
There's been no sound of gunfire.  Perhaps a silencer was used -- or the downtown traffic drowned out the solitary discharge. 
Leon looks confused at first.  His ladyfriend has no idea he's wounded -- neither do the derelicts and street people who've assembled on the corner. 
Even Stu isn't sure -- until the blood starts oozing from the wound on the pimp's chest -- staining his yellow vest. 
He isn't assaulting the booth anymore.  He's trying to keep his balance.  He slumps forward, hanging onto the booth for support -- only a few inches from Stu's face.  The blood runs down the side of the booth. 
STU (into pay phone) You did it! 
VOICE You said 'yes.' 
STU I said 'Yes, I can hear you.'  Not 'Yes -- kill the motherfucker!' 
VOICE Don't try to renege on it.  I was following orders. 
STU You're twisting it all around.  I didn't do this! 
VOICE That's up to you.  But any mention of me will not be appreciated. 
STU You mean...? 
VOICE You won't even get to finish your sentence.  Oh look, that little red dot is dancing around all over you again.  You saw how quickly it can happen.  And how accurate I can be. 
STU They can't blame me -- I'm not armed. 
VOICE Who's going to believe that?  With all those witnesses to the contrary. 
STU They can see with their own eyes. 
Not far away, we hear the BLAST of POLICE SIRENS drawing closer. 
VOICE Remember to leave me out of it. 
STU How can I? 
VOICE You'll put the proper spin on it. Isn't that your specialty?  Feeding the public a story that may not have a shred of truth -- and making it totally believable? 
STU This isn't a story.  This is real. This is murder. 
VOICE If you'd only dealt with the man reasonably, shown him some respect, this might not have been necessary. 
STU I gave him my money, my watch... 
VOICE But not your respect.  Which is what he required of you. 
STU He was a fucking thief. 
VOICE And now he's a fucking dead thief. Do you feel better about that? 
STU I don't feel a bit guilty.  This is all your doing! 
VOICE Now you're being disrespectful of me.  You never learn.  Your job is to deal with people -- but you're not good at it. 
STU Hey, I'm not taking any more criticism from some lunatic sniper who gets his kicks killing strangers. 
VOICE You keep insisting I'm a stranger. Probably because you don't recognize the voice.  But there are cheap electronic devices available that disguise the voice.  I might not even be a man.  I might be one of those many women you've almost totally forgotten.  One who doesn't forgive easily.  One who wants to watch you squirm. 
STU You're a man.  I know you're a man. Women don't kill with telescopic rifles.  They stab you. 
VOICE You sound so sure of that.  But you've never provoked any man as much as have the women in your life.  And so many of them, Stu. (a beat) Do you even remember their names? 
STU I've got no time to rehash my whole life.  Oh my God!  The cops are here. 
Police cars are pulling up on all sides of Eighth Avenue. 
Traffic has suddenly been shut down.  Prowl cars have now blocked the streets. 
PRODUCTION NOTE: Everything is seen from Stu's perspective without intercuts. 
Half a dozen cops now emerge and approach with drawn guns. 
FELICIA (pointing) That's him -- in the booth.  He's got a gun! 
As she hurls accusations, she's lugging Leon's lifeless body out into the gutter into the center of Eighth Avenue. 
It's a bright afternoon.  In the distance, we hear the maddening HONKING of uptown traffic that is now being rerouted, creating a huge bottleneck and raising the anger of irate motorists and bus drivers whose horns provide their simplest form of protest.  It's a discordant concert that echoes the confusion and frustration which Stu now feels... 
As the cops surround the booth -- at a distance. 
MEDIC Nothing we can do.  Don't touch the body.  They'll need it to mark the crime scene. 
Far across the street, the Captain confers with his subordinates.  They are small figures on the screen but we hear them sharply. 
SERGEANT Same corner as two weeks ago. 
RAMEY Maybe it's more than a coincidence. Cover me.  I need to talk to him. 
SERGEANT You've got your vest on? 
RAMEY What do you think? 
The Captain steps out of cover and boldly approaches the phone booth.  He stops cautiously about fifteen feet away. 
RAMEY I'm not armed. 
STU Neither am I. 
RAMEY Yeah, sure.  I need to know what happened. 
STU Can't talk about it. 
RAMEY Sure you can.  My name's Ramey. Captain Ed Ramey.  What's yours? 
STU Look, I don't want to be friends. 
RAMEY You look like you need a friend. 
VOICE Tell him you've already got a friend. 
STU (yells) I've got a friend, okay. 
RAMEY Is that who you're talking to on the phone? 
STU None of your business. 
RAMEY When somebody gets shot, it becomes my business.  Let's not have anybody else killed.  I want to hear your side of it. 
STU I've got no side of it. 
VOICE Don't worry, Stu.  I've got him fixed right in my sights.  I won't let him hurt you. 
RAMEY Has this happened to you before? The need to hurt someone?  To put a bullet in them? 
STU You won't believe anything I say. 
RAMEY Try me. 
STU I couldn't shoot anybody.  I'm not armed. 
RAMEY You're right.  I don't believe you. What's that bulge in your pants pocket? 
STU That?  That's my cellular. 
RAMEY A cellular?  Then what are you doing in a phone booth making calls? 
STU Do you want to see it? 
RAMEY Don't reach for it, mister. 
STU Then how can I show it to you? 
RAMEY I respect your right to privacy. I've been to therapy myself.  The department provides it.  I know it's not good form for a cop to be admitting that, but... 
VOICE Tell him not to come any closer. 
STU Stop right there.  Back up a few steps.  Back where you were. 
RAMEY If it makes you more comfortable. 
VOICE Tell him to read you your rights. 
STU I want you to read me my rights and stop asking questions. 
RAMEY Al least tell me your first name. 
STU It's my right not to have any name. 
RAMEY No gun and no name.  You're a highly underprivileged person. 
VOICE Demand a lawyer. 
STU And get me a lawyer, too.  I want a lawyer brought down here to negotiate my surrender. 
VOICE Brilliant, Stu.  Keep winging it. 
RAMEY It'll be hard to find a lawyer willing to risk his life.  But if you hand over the gun... 
STU How can I when you won't let me take it out? 
RAMEY We'll take it out for you -- as soon as you exit the booth with your hands raised and... 
STU (interrupts) Now we're back to that again.  It's always "Get out of the booth.' 'You can't stay in the booth.' Well, I like it in the fucking booth.  It's my whole world now. It's my booth and I'm never coming out. 
RAMEY We're not about to force you because there could be a miscalculation and then we'd never find out why this happened. 
STU Why is it so important to know? The guy is dead.  Isn't that enough?  Knowing isn't going to make him alive again.  So who gives a fuck! 
RAMEY It's what makes the job interesting.  Finding out why. Something drove you to do this. You didn't go out today expecting this to happen.  It was a nice day. You were out for a walk.  And then suddenly it all changed. 
STU All I wanted was to make a phone call.  One lousy phone call for thirty-five fucking cents. 
VOICE Careful, Stu.  Don't volunteer too much. 
RAMEY You got some bad news on that call. 
STU The worst. 
RAMEY Something that pushed you over the edge? 
STU And I've been falling ever since. 
RAMEY Time to land. 
STU When you hit bottom, you die. 
RAMEY I'm your safety net. 
STU If I tell you what you want to know -- you'll die, too. 
Something about the implied threat sends a chill through Captain Ramey. 
INSERT SHOT 
VOICE It might even be worth it.  She's insistent, isn't she? 
The cellular won't stop ringing. 
STU If she knows I'm in trouble, she won't give up. 
VOICE Probably glued to the TV by now. I'm watching coverage on two stations now.  Channel surfing. (pause) Well, there you are on two and four and five.  Not any decent angles on you, though, stuck inside there. 
The cell phone continues beeping until the sound of it is maddening.  Stu is still afraid to reach for it and provide the cops with an excuse to open fire. 
VOICE But if you'd take one or two steps outside and look up, I think they could get a clear picture of you. 
STU You said I'm not allowed to leave the booth. 
Finally the cell phone stops ringing. 
VOICE I might be willing to bend the rules and let you enjoy your moment of fame.  Set the phone down without hanging up... and take a step or two outside.  Just for a minute.  Then come straight back in or I'll be forced to provide 'live' coverage that should rival the historic Zapruder footage. (beat) Nothing like an exploding head to excite viewer interest. 
STU No, thanks.  I'll stay where I am. 
VOICE It was only a suggestion.  Since you're convinced I'm going to plug you anyway, it can't matter much. 
STU If you shoot me, you give yourself away. 
VOICE Even without a muffler, they'd never hear the report with all this noise.  Afterwards, it'd take them a good ten minutes to realize you weren't plugged by some overzealous officer.  Then they'll blame the media for inciting a crackpot vigilante to come down here and do the SWAT team's job for them. 
STU You expected them to come.  You had this all worked out. 
VOICE I write the scenario and you all play your parts -- as directed. 
The damned cell phone starts beeping again.  Stu fights the temptation to grab for it and hear Kelly's voice for one last time. 
STU Poor Kelly.  What she must be going through. 
VOICE Why don't you tell her how you feel about her? 
STU I'd never get the words out.  Not with fifteen or twenty rounds in me. 
VOICE You can't be certain they'd fire. They'd see it was only a phone. 
STU They wouldn't wait to see. 
The cellular ringing continues jangling Stu's nerves. 
STU Why doesn't she hang up? 
Then Stu notices something in the crowd gathering far across the street behind the police barricades.  Countless faces rubbernecking, probably hoping to see some display of violence that would end with him face down dead on the pavement. 
And in the midst of them -- one face familiar to him.  A female, quite pretty... even in tears.  It's Kelly.  (We see her only in LONG SHOT -- a distant figure in bright green jacket that makes her stand out from the crowd.) 
STU It's her!  She's not calling me. She's over there. 
VOICE Is she? 
STU The blonde girl in the green jacket. 
VOICE Can't miss her.  Very attractive, isn't she? 
STU She must've heard all the commotion and come downstairs. 
The cellular is still ringing. 
Stu resists pleading because he knows his silence is more powerful. 
There's no glass in the left side of the booth since the late Leon smashed it all out. 
Nothing to shatter when the sniper squeezes off his shot. 
VOICE May I call attention to the yellow pages? 
The frayed yellow phonebook dangling from a chain under the telephone shudders under the impact of a direct hit. 
There's been no sound of a gunshot, but the damage is there to behold. 
Stu reaches for the phonebook. 
There's a bullet hole straight through it.  Pieces of the .30 calibre slug have shattered into many tiny fragments and are imbedded between the pages, half-way through the thick volume. 
Stu pries pieces out of the pages of the directory.  He looks at them in the palm of his hand. 
VOICE Hollow points are designed to break up on impact.  It would've behaved differently if it had pierced your soft flesh.  The pieces would've bounced around looking for a way out.  That's where the real damage occurs -- finding an exit -- deflecting off all that bone... 
Stu wants to shout "STOP," but restrains himself.  Not talking gives him some degree of power. 
VOICE Still the silent treatment?  My father used to dish that out when he chose to punish me.  Not a word spoken -- one time for over a month.  I'd try and goad him to acknowledge I existed, but he stared right through me.  You're bringing back unhappy childhood, Stu.  That's not wise. 
Stu still declines to answer.  His silence seems his only weapon.  He tosses the bullet fragments out of the booth onto the pavement. 
VOICE Since you're ignoring me, I'll focus on someone else. (a beat) There she is -- nice and sharp.  I can see the two little punctures in each earlobe and my God, what kind of a girl would have her nostril pierced? 
Stu realizes the sniper now has Kelly in his sights. 
STU No! 
VOICE What was that?  Louder, Stu.  We must have a bad connection. 
STU Leave her out of it. 
VOICE I didn't expect her to show up here.  But since she has -- I'll improvise. 
STU Don't.  Please don't.  I'm sorry. I'm talking to you again.  I'll talk all you want! 
VOICE It's a bad dye job.  The black roots are growing in and it makes her look cheap. 
STU I've screwed up her life enough already.  Please don't hurt her. 
VOICE I don't necessarily have to kill her.  I could be persuaded to settle for a reasonable mutilation. Which part of her displeases you most?  If she turns a bit more in profile, I'm accurate enough to remove the tip of her unpleasantly protruding nose.  It's just cartilage.  Any decent cosmetic surgeon will have her looking better than ever. 
STU'S POV - FOCUS SHIFTS TO KELLY 
in the crowd.  Distant yet distinct amongst the curious onlookers. 
JUMP CUT 
CLOSER ON KELLY -- OBLIVIOUS TO HER DANGER. 
AS SEEN THROUGH CROSS HAIRS OF TELESCOPIC SIGHT 
following her as she forces her way through the crowd toward the police officers. 
Her face virtually fills the screen. 
PRODUCTION NOTE: The only time we deviate from Stu and his POV is when we see the sniper's own POV through his telescopic sight. 
SWAT OFFICER (distant) Freeze where you are!  Turn around and keep those hands clasped. (signals the others) Take him. 
The SWAT OFFICERS in protective gear now step out of cover and fan out as they approach the booth. 
TIGHTER ON STU 
He's just outside the booth -- expecting to feel the sniper's bullet go through him at any moment. 
Then the pay phone starts ringing. 
The sniper is calling back. 
RACK FOCUS AGAIN 
to the police. 
All the cops react.  Particularly the Captain and the Sergeant.  Their voices seem close up when they sharpen in focus. 
SERGEANT What is going on with these fucking phone calls? 
RAMEY (shouts) Hold your fire.  Let him answer it. 
The SWAT team backs up but maintain their aim. 
SERGEANT Are you nuts? 
RAMEY Let them talk.  He's not going anywhere. (shouts) He's going back inside the booth. 
Indeed we see Stu re-enter the battered phone booth and pick up the receiver. 
FOCUS RETURNS TO STU 
STU (into pay phone) Yeah? 
A strange voice begins chattering away in Spanish.  Totally unintelligible to Stu. 
STU (into pay phone) You got the wrong number.  Hang up. 
The voice, probably a Puerto Rican gentleman, rattles on in Spanish. 
STU Wrong number.  Wrong number. 
Then the voice on the phone suddenly alters the Hispanic accent.  It is the now familiar tone of his tormentor. 
VOICE Aw, relax, Stu.  Only yanking your chain.  Now can we start over? 
STU Those cops won't wait much longer. 
VOICE What else can they do?  They can't afford to just shoot you like I can.  Not with so much media coverage.  Not unless you make some stupid aggressive move. (beat) The ABC Mobile Unit just rolled up. 
Across the street, Stu can see various TV units from local stations setting up cameras on roofs of trucks. 
STU Will you look at that?  I must be going out over the network.  Bet they're pre-empting usual programming. 
VOICE And just think -- if you survive this, your trial will be televised. And you can try and make the world believe I ever existed.  I'd be your only defense. 
STU How are they gonna prove that I killed anybody when there's no gun? 
VOICE They'll plant one.  The police aren't above that -- when they're desperate to convict. 
STU No, sir.  No gun and I walk. 
Stu talks close into the pay phone receiver now.  But keeps his voice raised. 
STU This booth.  It's my whole world -- shrunk down to four feet by three feet.  Not much bigger than the size of a coffin. 
VOICE They can put handles on the booth and bury you in it. 
STU (loudly into pay phone) When I saw you put that bullet into that black dude, I knew you'd never let me out of this phone booth alive. 
VOICE You're wasting my time.  Reach up and take the gun. 
STU (peering upward, squinting) Let me see you first.  What harm can that do you?  You're in one of those windows.  I've got to know which one. 
VOICE No need for that. 
STU Being so far, I could never identify you.  I don't even want to. 
VOICE What is it then? 
STU Don't worry that I'd try to point you out.  You'd shut me up with one of your .30 calibre hollow points before I could even raise a finger. 
VOICE Why does it matter so much? 
STU I want to see that you exist.  Like God exists.  It's not enough to believe.  You want to see him -- just once -- even at a distance. 
VOICE And then you'd take the gun down. And use it.  We have a deal on that? 
STU Show yourself to me and I'll take the gun down.  I swear. 
There's a pause as the sniper mulls it over. 
VOICE I don't have to make deals.  And you're irritating me by trying to negotiate.  God doesn't have to prove anything.  He just strikes you down when he gets in the mood. 
STU Stop!  I won't ask to see you anymore. 
VOICE I'm glad that's settled.  But look who else has showed up? 
STU Who? 
VOICE I guess she saw the coverage on TV and just couldn't keep away. 
STU What are you talking about? 
VOICE The 'hotel' just arrived.  And a very beautiful little hotel she is. Actually, I'd classify her as more of a motel. 
STU Mavis?  I don't see her. 
VOICE She's too far back behind the police line.  But I've got a fine shot at her from up here. 
STU You don't even know what she looks like. 
VOICE You're in an enviable position now, Stu.  You get to choose between them.  Tell me which one. 
STU I can't. 
VOICE Which will it be?  Kelly or Mavis? Or should I simply select one? 
INSERT SHOT - THE CELL PHONE 
lying face up on the floor of the booth.  Is anybody listening? 
BACK TO STU 
RAMEY Intercept them.  Divert them to the hotel. 
SERGEANT It's done. 
RAMEY Send them in from the Forty-third Street side.  I don't want any activity the sniper might catch sight of.  He's probably high up and facing that booth.  He's got to continue to believe our full attention is focused on the man inside -- whoever the hell that poor bastard is. (to emergency operator) Hello 911 operator, I missed some of that.  Run it halfway back and repeat it. 
STU'S VOICE (REPLAY) (faint) '... Like you did that pimp.  And that tourist last week.  But this time you want me to do the killing for you...' 
RAMEY (listening) Jesus... he's a dead man. 
BACK INSIDE PHONE BOOTH 
VOICE The police seem all excited about something, Stu. 
STU Are they?  I wasn't looking. 
VOICE I can't wait any longer.  Say amen, then reach up for the gun.  When your hand comes down, I want to see it. 
STU I'm too afraid. 
VOICE For once, be brave.  Surprise yourself. 
STU I'm shaking all over. 
VOICE Guys in combat situations even shit their pants.  But they follow orders. 
STU As soon as the cops see a gun, they'll open fire. 
VOICE Then I'd advise you to fire first. 
Stu's arm goes up in a supreme act of willpower. 
His fingers run along the two clouded plastic sheets that cover the roof of the booth.  It raises up easily at the middle where two sheets join. 
TIGHT INSERT SHOT 
The space between the roof of the booth and the sheets of clouded plastic.  We see the fluorescent lighting fixture covered with dust.  The solitary object -- a cruel-looking weapon. 
Now Stu's fingertips protrude into the small space.  He touches the gun, brushes back and forth, feeling the roughness of the grip. 
TIGHT SHOT - STU'S FACE 
as below he continues to hesitate -- it's agony -- 
The sweat pours down his forehead and his eyes are squeezed tightly shut.  He can already imagine the police bullets tearing into him. 
A POLICE SNIPER IS MOVING INTO POSITION. 
POLICE SNIPER (into transmitter) Give me the word. 
RACK BACK TO STU - IN THE BOOTH 
His arm still raised.  He hasn't brought it down with the gun in it.  Not yet.  He holds the pay phone receiver jammed up against his mouth. 
VOICE Hard part's over.  Drop your arm and point it like you'd point your finger and squeeze. 
STU No.  You do it.  If you want me dead, then fucking murder me! 
VOICE Why must I keep invoking some poor girl's name every time we come to an impasse?  I'm focused back on Kelly again.  You're obviously not willing to trade your life for hers. 
STU I am!  I'm doing it! 
He drops the receiver so that it dangles again. 
CAMERA FOLLOWS RAMEY to where Stu lies surrounded by cops and medics.  He's stunned, but very much alive. 
MEDIC Don't try to sit up. 
STU What was that? 
RAMEY (kneeling) Rubber bullet. 
MEDIC You'll have one hell of a nasty welt.  Busted rib.  Maybe a permanent scar there. 
STU It couldn't hurt much more if you really shot me. 
RAMEY Somebody was going to and we thought it may as well be us. 
STU Did you get him? 
RAMEY Sure as hell did.  Thanks to you. 
STU Still alive? 
RAMEY Barely. 
MEDIC We'll be giving him a hypo for the pain.  It'll put him out for a while. 
Kelly is now brought over by a female cop.  She drops to her knees beside Stu and tries to embrace him.  The medics restrain her. 
STU It's okay.  I'm not really shot. 
KELLY I was so afraid.  I thought... 
STU I thought so, too.  But we're going to be alright.  Both of us. 
KELLY Remember how you swore up and down you'd get me on TV?  Well, you did. I already got interviewed on Fox and Channel Eleven and they even want me on A.M. America tomorrow morning. 
STU Bet you didn't think I could deliver on that. 
MEDIC Will you please let go of him, Miss? 
A gurney is wheeled over from a police ambulance.  The medic is about to administer the hypo but Stu pushes him away. 
STU No.  No hypo.  I want to see him first. 
The medics are now ready to lift Stu onto the gurney and cart him off.  But Stu struggles against them. 
RAMEY Relax.  The guy's dying. 
STU That's why I've gotta talk to him. Please! 
RAMEY We'll see. 
MEDIC (to Kelly) You can ride with him in the ambulance. 
The woman cop escorts Kelly to the waiting ambulance. 
Ramey meanwhile tries to resume contact with the SWAT team inside the hotel. 
RAMEY This is Ramey.  Over.  This is Ramey.  Ten-Four. 
There's nothing but static, mixed up feedback and multiple garbled voices on the other end of the line. 
