Pi - By Darren Aronosfsky 
Pi by 
Darren Aranofsky 
Originally featured at: Screensource 
Shooting Script September, 1996 
TITLES EXPLODE TO WHITE 
SLOW FADE TO: 
EXTREME CLOSE-UP of MAXIMILIAN COHEN'S eyes popping open. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT -CHINATOWN FLAT – NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT 
Max jolts his head from his desk and tries to orient him-self in the darkness. He has intelligent eyes set in an exhausted, good-looking face. 
Then he notices the blood dripping from his nose. Max wipes it. 
Max's voiceover begins: 
MAX (V.O.) Monday, September first. Six-fifteen. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAWN 
A pull-string light flips on. Max examines his bloody nose in the mirror. 
MAX (V.O.) The alchemist awakes. (Imitating) "Turn lead into gold, Max, lead into gold." Today, I find it. 
DEVI Your hair. Devi hands the bags to Max. Then she goes to pat down his Hair. Max retreats. 
MAX What are you doing? DEVI Your hair, you can't go out like that. Don't worry. MAX It's fine. It's fine. Devi pats down his hair. Max is humiliated. DEVI You need a mom. Max hands back the bags and heads quickly for the stairs. MAX I have to go. DEVI Your somosas! An embarrassed Max takes the bag. 
MAX Thanks. INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY 
At the counter, Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he takes three pills from the plastic bottle and drops them in his coffee. 
Max flips past a full-page ad in the paper that reads LANCET-PERCY 86% ACCURACY (ONLY GOD IS PERFECT). Max flips the page before he or we can absorb it. He compares stock quotes in the Wall Street Journal against his printout. 
MAX (V.O.) Sixteen, twenty-seven. Results: Euclid shows tomorrow's Dow closing up by four points. Anomalies include PRONET at sixty-fire and a quarter, a career high. Possible explanations, either A, an error in the June fifth algorithm, or B, Euclid's main processor is running a recursion... 
Max marks up the paper with lines and diagrams as he ponders his bits and misses. 
Then a puff of cigarette smoke drifts by and succeeds in bothering Max. He fans it away when— 
VOICE FROM OFFSCREEN Oh sorry, am I bothering you? Max shrugs and looks over. 
The voice belongs to LENNY MEYER—a bearded man in his late 20s sucking on a cigarette. 
On closer inspection, something is off. It seems that Lenny is an Orthodox Jew. His yarmulke sticks out Slightly from his wide-brimmed hat and the fringes from his tsi-tsis hang out from the bottom of his untucked shirt. 
LENNY MEYER I'll put it out. (Which he does) The name's Lenny Meyer Lenny sticks out his hand. Max responds with a small nod. LENNY MEYER And you are? MAX Max. LENNY MEYER Max? MAX Max Cohen. LENNY MEYER Cohen! (Judging) Jewish? Max shrugs and turns back to his work. 
LENNY MEYER It's okay. (Joking) I'm a Jew, too. (Serious) Do you practice? 
MAX No, I'm not interested in religion. 
LENNY MEYER Have you ever heard of Kabbalah? 
MAX No. 
MAX Leave me alone. His neighbors conversation begins to build in volume and distortion. 
FARROUHK (O.S.) So I drop them off in the Village and they dart. 
DEVI (O.S.) Oh God... Max gags and rubs his head. 
FARROUHK (O.S.) I get out, grab my bat and start running. One of the kids, maybe sixteen, I catch a block later he's cursing at me, calling me a Paki bastard. So I whacked him, right in the head. 
DEVI (O.S.) Farrouhk! The pain seems to disappear. Max looks at his hand that was rubbing his bead. 
Then he looks at the front door. The doorknob seems to move. Something begins knocking on Max's door. The knocking gets louder and louder then the locks begin to unlock. 
FARROUHK's words begin to overpower Max. 
FARROUHK (O.S.) I'm kicking the bastard in the ribs banging his ass, knocking his head against the curb, harder and harder, I fucking lost it. A hot dog guy starts screaming "You're cracking his skull, you're cracking his skull." So they pulled me off of him and calmed me down. Cops said he had it coming to him. Then something starts pounding the door. The doorknob quivers, the locks unbolt. The chains are the only thing keeping out the intruder. The door shakes and the chains are strained. 
MAX is paralyzed with terror. 
MAX No! No! And then the door smashes open. Blinding light fills the room and we crash into the 
BLINDING WHITE VOID 
A moment of silence, then we CUT TO INT. BATHROOM - DAWN A phone rings incessantly. Max's eyes pop open. He's scrunched up in a corner of the room, squashed beneath the sink. 
His nose is bleeding. 
Max, crawls into the MAIN ROOM 
and picks up the phone. He pinches his nose and tilts his head back. 
MARCY DAWSON Mr. Cohen. Marcy Dawson here again I was just looking over my schedule and I realized I'll be in your neighborhood tomorrow around three. 
MAX Okay. 
EXT. SOL'S STUDY - MOMENTS LATER TIGHT ON the Japanese game of Go being played. Sol is white and Max is black. Sol's moves are secure and controlled while Max is hesitant. 
SOL Stop thinking, Max, just feel. Use your intuition. It's the only way to get into the flow. (Beat) What did you think of Hamlet? MAX I didn't get to it. SOL It's been a month. (Knowingly) You haven't taken a single break. 
MAX I'm so close, Sol. I'm so close but I just can't grab it. Sol changes the subject. He feeds his goldfish and points to one of them. 
SOL Have you met the new fish my niece bought me? I named her Icarus. After you. My renegade pupil. You fly too high, you'll get burned. Max looks up at Sol. 
SOL The more I see you, the more I see myself thirty years ago. My greatest pupil. Published at 16, Ph.D. at 20. 
MAX We'll see. SOL But life isn't just mathematics. I spent forty years looking for patterns in Pi, I found nothing. 
MAX You found things... SOL I found things, but not a pattern. 
INT. MOVING TRAIL - DAY 
Max sits in the corner of a rickety New York City subway car. The train is almost completely deserted. 
Max looks down at his hand. He opens his palm and reveals a black Go chip. 
MAX (V.O.) Tuesday, September second, eighteen twelve. If Sol hadn't gotten sick who knows where math would be. He spent years in the numbers of Pi. Searching for meaning, for order. Max notices a SKINNY MAN in a business suit staring at him. The man catches Max's eye and looks away, but then he quickly looks back, making Max turn away. 
He looks down at his Wall Street journal and draws a circle with its diameter then he writes "A=pir2" and "C=2pir." Next he writes "pi=3.14159..." 
MAX (V.O.) Three point one four...off into infinity and maybe insanity. Somewhere in there he wanted sanity. Sanity like he found in the circles Pi represented. Simple, sane circles. If only the stock market had circles. Some type of sanity. Some type of form, of shape. 
Suddenly, Max hears someone singing. Max looks up. It is the Skinny Man and he's singing with passion. It's all very strange to Max, who nervously looks away. 
And then the singing stops— mid-verse Max looks up and the man is gone. Vanished. Max looks around—no one in Sight. 
Satisfied, Lenny lights up a cigarette and takes a drag. 
MAX (Mildly impressed) Kind of interesting. LENNY MEYER (Proud of himself) Yeah, like take the Hebrew word for, say, the Garden of Eden, Kadem. Kuf, Dalei Mem...Kuf is a hundred. Daled, four Mem, forty. They equal one hundred and forty-four. Then take the tree of knowledge...in the garden, Aat Ha Haim, it equals two hundred and thirty-three. Now you can take that number and... 
MAX They're Fibonacci numbers. LENNY MEYER Huh? MAX The Fibonacci sequence. Italian mathematician, thirteenth century. If you divide a hundred and forty-four into two hundred and thirty-three, it approaches theta. 
LENNY MEYER Theta? MAX The Greek symbol for the golden ratio. The golden spiral. Lenny exhales the smoke. Max quickly graphs the number on his Wall Street Journal. 
LENNY MEYER You're right, I never saw that before. That's the series you find in nature. Like the face of a sunflower. 
MAX Wherever there's spirals. LENNY MEYER You see, there's math everywhere. Lenny's smoke drifts by Max's eyes. 
SLOW MOTION: MAX'S POV of smoke spirals spinning in front of him. 
MAX Math everywhere... SLOW MOTION: Max looks down at his coffee cup. He pours cream into his coffee. It shoots up and mixes with the black coffee forming spirals in the mug. 
MAX (Serious) Everywhere... SLOW MOTION: Max looks at the spiral he just drew on the Wall Street Journal. 
NORMAL SPEED Suddenly, Max stands up. 
MAX Oh my God... INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Max draws spirals all over his Wall Street Journal. Then he takes a thick black marker and draws a giant spiral across the entire page. 
Max is ecstatic as he pounds code into the computer takes moments to wake up, drops pills, and drinks a Ginseng soda. 
MAX (V.O.) Simple shapes! Tuesday, September second. Twenty-twenty-two. Sol! Sol! Sol! Shapes in the market. Why not? And they're spirals! Spirals! 
Max traces a big circle on the journal. Then, he cuts it out with an X-acto blade. He cuts out the middle of the circle so that be has a thin loop like one of those futuristic frisbees. He tears part of the loop and stretches the circle out in front of him into a spiral. 
MAX (V.O.) A circle spread out overtime. It's open-ended. It has a beginning and it grows and changes through time. If I can find where it fits, if I can spin it and lock it into a group of numbers, then I can calculate the future. Lead into gold. Chaos into order Madness into sanity. Pain into bliss. Perfection. Max is about to slap RETURN but he stops himself—he's nervous. 
He crumples up his picks and tosses them into a public trash can. 
INT. SOL'S STUDY - DAY 
Sol and Max play Go. Sol is peaceful while Max is distant. 
Max plays a piece absently. Sol counters with a deafening atari. Max whispers: 
MAX Euclid crashed. I lost all my data, my hardware. 
SOL Your mainframe? MAX Burnt... SOL What happened? MAX I don't know, first I got these horrible picks. Then Euclid spits out some numbers. Never saw anything like it and then it fries. The whole machine just crashed. SOL You have a printout? MAX Of? SOL The picks, the number? MAX I threw it out. SOL What was the number it spit out? 
MAX I don't know, just a long string of digits. 
SOL How many? MAX I don't know. SOL (Intense) What was it, a hundred and fifty, a thousand, two hundred sixteen!? How many? 
MAX I don't know. Probably around two hundred. (Wondering) Why? SOL (Beat)... I dealt with some bugs back in my Pi days. I was wondering if it was similar to one I ran into. 
Sol begins to feed his fish. He points to one. 
SOL Have you met Archimedes. The one with the black spot. You see? MAX Yeah. SOL Remember Archimedes of Syracuse? The King asks Archimedes to determine if a present he's received was actually solid gold. Unsolved problem at the time. It tortures the great Greek mathematician for weeks. Insomnia haunts him and he twists and turns on his bed for nights on end. Finally, his equally exhausted wife, she's forced to share a bed with this genius, convinces him to take a bath, to relax. While stepping into the tub he observes the bathwater rise as he enters. Displacement. A way to determine volume. And thus, a way to determine density, weight over volume. And thus, Archimedes solves the problem. He screams "Eureka!"—Greek for "I found it!"—and is so overwhelmed he runs dripping naked through the streets to the King's castle to report his discovery. Now, what's the moral of the story. MAX That a breakthrough will come... 
SOL Wrong. The point of the story is the wife. Listen to your wife, she will give you perspective. Meaning, you need a break, Max, you have to take a bath, otherwise you'll get nowhere. There will be no order, only chaos. Go home and take a bath. PUBLIC BENCH - MOMENTS LATER Max waits for his train on an empty platform. 
Just then, he hears a DRIPPING sound. Max looks up and notices something across the tracks on the other platform. He can't quite make it out because his vision is blocked by columns. 
He gets up and spots a Young Hasidic Man standing at him. 
Blood drips from the Man's hand. Max doesn't know what to make of it 
A TRAIN SWISHES BY - 
MARCY DAWSON I can't tell you what a pleasure it is to finally meet you. I've studied your papers for years. MARCY DAWSON I have something you won't be able to say no to. Why don't we take a spin in the limo? 
MAX No, no, no, really, I can't. 
MARCY DAWSON We're excited by your work. We can't wait to discuss... 
Max attempts to pull away but Marcy is firm on leading him to the car. Meanwhile, the Shinny man is heading right at them. 
The CHAUFFEUR reaches out to him. Max yanks his arm free and runs away. He whips around a corner. 
INT. BODEGA - DAY Max barrels into the grocery store and buys a Journal. He heads to the back of the store and lays the paper across the juice section. He checks the listing. 
MAX On the nose. On the damn nose. Max turns the page on the Journal and sees the Lancet-Percy ad. Then he notices one of the bodega owners staring at him. 
EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Max scouts his front door. The coast is clear. INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Max examines the smashed Euclid mainframe. He uncovers some of the strange filo-like substance. He carefully touches it. Then he grabs a small pinch of it. 
He examines it near a light bulb. He can't guess what it is. He sniffs it. He carefully tastes it with the very tip of his tongue. He still doesn't have a clue. 
Max opens his closet. He pulls out his dusty brass microscope. He dusts it off. Next, he pulls out a slide Kit. 
Max places the instrument on the windowsill. He grabs an old glass slide and puts some of the flaky stuff on it. He slides it under the microscope. He looks into the lens, but doesn't see anything. 
He gets up quickly and heads for the HALLWAY 
where he looks at Devi's door, nervously. He gathers his courage and knocks on her door. Through the door hears. 
DEVI (O.S.) Farrouhk? MAX Um, no, it's Max from next door. Devi opens the door wearing a sexy nightshirt. 
Then an idea comes to him. He takes out his brain book. He looks through it until he finds a picture of neurons. He compares the image to the view through the turret. They look different but there are similarities. 
DEVI (O.S) Shh! Baby! Come here, baby! Max rushes out. 
EXT. PLAYGROUND - LATE AFTERNOON 
Max sifts through the trash can where he threw his picks from yesterday. Frustrated, he dumps the trash onto the sidewalk and starts looking through it Mrs. Ovadia watches him. 
Max sees her and is embarrassed for a moment. 
MAX I just threw out something. I didn't realize I needed it. 
MRS. OVADIA Humph. MAX Just a printout. I, uh, lost my data... 
Max looks back at the trash And forgets about Mrs. Ovadia. Soon, Max gets up and kicks the trashcan. He heads home. 
IN FRONT OF MAX'S APARTMENT BUILDING 
Max watches Marcy get out of the limo and call to Mrs. Ovadia. 
Max backs away when he smacks into someone. 
It's Lenny Meyer - the young Jewish man. 
Max jumps back in fear. 
LENNY MEYER Max! How you doing? Lenny Meyer. MAX Oh, hey... Max tries to quickly pass him. 
LENNY MEYER Hey, where you going? You got a few moments to do Tefillin? 
Max turns around and notices Marcy talking to Mrs. Ovadia. Mrs. Ovadia points up the street toward him. 
Max firmly rings SOL's bell. 
In a few moments, Sol answers the door in his pajamas. 
SOL Max? MAX What's going on, Sol!? SOL Relax, it's early. INT. SOL'S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER Max sits at the kitchen table while Sol heats up a pot of tea. Max is shaking. 
SOL Now, what's up? MAX What's the two hundred and sixteen number, Sol? 
SOL Excuse me? MAX You asked me if I had seen a two hundred and sixteen digit number, right? SOL Oh, you mean the bug. I found it working on Pi. 
MAX What do you mean by "found it"? SOL What's this all about, Max? 
MAX Well, there's these religious Jews who have... 
SOL Religious Jews? MAX Well, you know, Hassidim. I met one in the coffee shop. The guy's a number theorist. The Torah is their data set. The thing is, they're searching for a two hundred and sixteen digit number in the Torah. 
SOL Really? What's it mean to them? 
MAX They say they don't know, but that's crazy. I mean what are the odds... SOL It's just a coincidence. MAX But hold on, there's something else. You remember those strange picks I got. SOL Yesterday's stock picks? MAX Right. Well, it turns out that they were correct. I hit two picks on the nose. Smack on the nose. 
SOL (Surprised) Hmmm. MAX Something's going on, and it has to do with that number. The answer is there. SOL Max, it's a bug. MAX No. it's a pattern. A pattern is in that number 
SOL Come with me. INT. SOL'S STUDY - MOMENTS LATER Sol and Max sit on either side of a half-played Go board. 
SOL Listen to me. The Ancient Japanese considered the Go board to be a microcosm of the universe. Although when it is empty it appears to be simple and ordered, in fact, the possibilities of game play are endless. They say that no two Go games have ever been alike. Just like snowflakes. So, the Go board actually represents an extremely complex and chaotic universe. That is the truth of our world, Max. It can't be easily summed up with math. There is no simple pattern. MAX But as a Go game progresses, the possibilities become smaller and smaller. The board does take on order. Soon, all moves are predictable. 
SOL So? MAX So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order...a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen number. 
SOL That is insanity, Max. MAX Or maybe it's genius. I have to get that number. 
SOL Hold on, you have to slow down. You're losing it, you have to take a breath. Listen to yourself. You're connecting a computer bug I had, a computer bug you might have had, and some religious hogwash. If you want to find the number two sixteen in the world, you'll be able to pull it out of anywhere. Two hundred and sixteen steps from your street comer to your front door. Two hundred and sixteen seconds you spend riding on the elevator. When your mind becomes obsessed with anything, it will filter everything else out and find examples of that thing everywhere. Three hundred and twenty, four hundred and fifty, twenty-three. Whatever! You've chosen two sixteen and you'll find it everywhere in nature. But Max, as soon as you discard scientific rigor, you are no longer a mathematician. You become a numerologist. What you need to do is take a break from your research. You need it. You deserve it Here's a hundred dollars, I want you to take it. If ,you won't take it, borrow it. Either way, take a break. Spend it however you like as long as it falls in the category of vacation. Real world stuff, okay. No math. 
Max looks at the Man's face and sees for a split second his own face staring back. 
MAX Hey! Max charges up a flight of stairs. He crosses a passage over the tracks and flies down the stairs to the other side of the platform. 
The Man is gone. A pool of blood sits where the Man was. Max touches it with his toe. It's sticky. He notices a trail of blood leading off from the pool. He follows it around a corner where it leads into a corner. 
He notices something strange in the shadows. He carefully advances on it. Hiding in the shadows is what looks like a small piece of brain. It seems to be moving slightly. 
Max uses a pen in his jacket to carefully touch it. 
Suddenly, Max hears a train's HONK HONK behind him. Max spins around. Nothing is there but silence. 
He turns back to the gray matter. He touches it again. Once again, he hears the deafening HONK HONK. Max spins around, but nothing is there. 
Frustrated, he pushes his pen deep into the brain - fiber ripping apart. 
Suddenly, a TRAIN is barreling down on Max. Seconds from impact, Max SCREAMS!!! 
DISSOLVE TO 
BLINDING WHITE VOID We hear two deep, long sleep-filled breaths and then we CUT TO: 
INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY 
Max's eyes pop open. A TRANSIT COP is sticking him with a nightstick. 
TRANSIT COP Up, buddy Coney Island, last stop. Max sits up. His nose is bleeding. The cop hands him a tissue. 
TRANSIT COP Your nose. Max wipes his nose and looks around nervously. 
He sees the rides of Coney Island in the distance. 
Max flips to the stock quotes. He can't believe how far things have dovetailed. He shakes his head in disbelief when an envelope appears in front of him. It belongs to Lenny Meyer. 
LENNY MEYER The Torah. MAX What is it? LENNY MEYER In Hebrew characters and numbers. 
MAX No, what is it? The two hundred and sixteen digits. 
LENNY MEYER I don't know. (Beat) If you get it, maybe we can figure it out. (Changing subject) Can you really find it? MAX If the number's in there, I'll find it. 
EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DUSK 
Max marches into his foyer when he's suddenly ambushed by Devi's boyfriend, Farrouhk. Farrouhk is a little guy with a big sadistic smile. 
He grabs Max by the collar and slams him against the wall. His fist butts up against Max's chin. 
FARROUHK There you go, dork. Been thinking about my girlfriend. Haven't you? MAX Wha... FARROUHK You want to fuck her, don't you? MAX No, no.. FARROUHK You calling my girlfriend ugly!? Why don't you want to fuck her? You think she's ugly? MAX No, no, I just. It's that she's your girl... 
FARROUHK So you do want to fuck her. You think about fucking her in the mouth, don't you? 
MAX No, no, sir, please. I've never touched Devi...I never will. FARROUHK Give the fucking genius a Mars bar. Stay away, or I'll slice off your balls. Farrouhk tosses Max against the wall. Max whimpers off to his apartment. Farrouhk has enjoyed this and to end his game be gives Max a small slap on the butt. 
INSIDE HIS APARTMENT Max bolts the front door. 
At his desk he rips open the envelope Lenny Meyer gave him. He pulls out a BLACK DISK and eyes it expectantly. 
Next door, he hears Farrouhk and Devi talking. 
FARROUHK (O.S.) Damn dork. DEVI (O.S.) He's just a bit unique. FARROUHK(0.S.) Unique?! Unique?! He's a dork! Then, Max carefully slips the DISK into Euclid's drive. Hebrew characters pop onto Euclid's screen. Max pounds in several strings of code lightning fast. 
The Hebrew letters suddenly switch to their numerical counterparts. Max toggles between Hebrew and numbers a few times—impressed. 
Max nods. Then there's a knock at the door. 
MAX Too much...too soon. He grabs the gun and tries to roll up his sleeve. He can't get it to roll up. Suddenly he's overwhelmed by pain. He quickly rips his shirt and fires the gun into his arm. 
Nothing happens. He checks the barrel—its empty 
MAX Ohh... He grabs a bottle of medicine but knocks them an into the sink. 
He cuts his finger as be grabs one of the broken bottles. He loads the gun and fires the medicine into his arm. A wave of pain and nausea floods in. He grabs another bottle and fires it into his arm. Then he fires another and another. 
Frustrated he collapses into the mirror. 
MAX Stop, please, stop. Slightly sobbing he examines his scalp pulling his hair apart. He sees something. 
MAX What the? So he takes out a scissors and starts removing some hair. 
Meanwhile his neighbors' lovemaking gets more intense. Their screams carry into Max's head. 
Max finishes removing a patch of hair from the right side of his head. He has uncovered a light scar on his head. He examines it in the mirror. 
MAX What is it!? What is it!? Then his neighbors' lovemaking turns outright evil. It sounds like Sodom and Gomorrah next door and Max can barely stand it. A jolt of pain surges into his head. He grabs his scar as he vomits blood into the sink. He starts banging his head against the mirror. He bangs his head again and again until the mirror CRACKS! 
His neighbors are cumming and their cries of joy are twisted and agonizing. 
The mathematician looks at himself and begins to sob. He reloads the gun and fires it right into the scar on his head, where the pain is coming from. 
Max collapses to the ground in complete agony until the bare bulb in the bathroom starts blinking on and off. 
Suddenly the pain is gone. 
Then he hears something. It's Euclid, buzzing with life. He gets to his feet and head's into Euclid. 
The main monitor is screaming with numbers. The lights in the room flicker on and off like on a disco dance floor. A filo substance billows out of Euclid. 
DEVI Are you okay? MAX Out! Get out! Max slams the door in their faces. Max rubs his chin and looks around the room. He starts saying the number to himself He gets more and more excited as he reads each digit. 
INT. COFFEE SHOP - NIGHT 
Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he pulls out the Journal. 
A phone continues to RING. 
In the clouds of the Lancet-Percy ad - in The Journal Max writes down the two hundred and sixteen digit number. He studies it, examines it, draws on it, tries to figure out what it is. 
MAX (V.O.) Saturday? Dark outside. There was a moment there...when, I don't know...when I didn't exist. What? What? 
We hear a phone being picked up. The ringing stops. Silence, then: 
MARCY DAWSON (O.S.) Max, is that you? Max? (Pleading) Max, just talk to me. Things are a bit out of hand down here. People are getting desperate. (Suddenly firm) We had a deal, Max. A deal. Talk to us, Max. 
We hear the sound of a phone hanging up. 
At the coffee counter, Max pops a handful of pills and crumples the paper. 
INT. MAX'S BATHROOM - LATER 
Max stares at his BALD head in the mirror. All of his hair has been removed. A fleshy scar sits on his scalp above his right ear. 
Max ignores the incessantly RINGING phone. 
Max flips through an old neuroscience book. He examines a few illustrations and finds the part of his brain that's killing him. 
MAX (V.0.) Must be an explanation, must be a reason. Must. 
With a thick black marker, he carefully outlines the part of his head that is causing the pain. 
SOL I gave up before I pinpointed it. But my guess is that certain problems cause computers to get stuck in a particular loop. The loop leads to meltdown, but right before they crash they... they become "aware" of their own structure. The computer has a sense of its own silicon nature and it prints out its ingredients. MAX The computer becomes conscious? SOL In some ways...I guess... MAX (To himself) Studying the pattern made Euclid conscious of itself. Before it died it spit out the number That consciousness is the number. 
SOL No, Max, it's only a nasty bug. 
SOL A door in front of a cliff. You're driving yourself over the edge. You need to stop. MAX Stop? How can I stop? I'm this close. 
SOL The bug doesn't only destroy computers. MAX What are you saying? SOL Look what it did to your computer. Look what it's doing to you. Max doesn't respond. SOL It's killing you. Leave it unknown. 
MAX (Clarity) You were afraid of it. That's why you quit. 
SOL Max, I got burnt. MAX C'mon, Sol. SOL It caused my stroke. MAX That's bullshit. It's math, numbers, ideas. Mathematicians are suppose to be out on the edge. You taught me that! SOL Max, there's more than math! There's a whole world... 
MAX That's where discoveries happen. We have to go out there alone, all alone, no one can accompany us. We have to search the edge. We have to risk it all. But you ran from it. You're a coward. SOL Max, it's death! Max stands up and screams down at Sol. 
MAX You can't tell me what it is. You don't know You've retreated to your goldfish, to your books, to your Go, but you're not satisfied. Sol grabs his cane and whacks the Go board. 
SOL Get out! Max, get out! MAX I want to understand it. I want to know! 
Sol swings his cane as Max heads for the door. 
SOL Out! INT. SUBWAY - PORT AUTHORITY - NIGHT Max paces on a downtown train as it pulls into 42nd Street. 
Through the open doors, Max notices a YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER in jeans and a leather jacket photographing him from the uptown platform. 
Max is enraged and screams at him. The man ducks behind a column, but a few moments later he's back snapping pictures. 
The doors start to shut, but Max uses his body to get off the train. 
The Photographer sees him coming and flees. 
Max follows the man's movement on his platform. When the young man shoots up the exit stairs, Max does so as well. 
MAX Marcy? What's up? Max retreats. 
MARCY DAWSON Let's take a ride, Max. MAX I can't, I got work... Max looks back at the tough guys who are almost on top of him. 
MARCY DAWSON We had a deal! NOW get in the limo! Marcy releases a vicious slap that nearly knocks Max down. Max whimpers. 
MAX Don't ever hit... He pushes Marcy aside and darts. 
EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT Max flees. Jake and Brad charge after him. They're right on him - he has a meter or so on them. He scurries through a construction site and over a footbridge. 
Then, he runs into an all-night BODEGA 
The tough guys chase after him and he gets a bit of a lead in the narrow aisles. He pleads with the owners for help - nothing doing. 
Jake heads him off and uses his body to block the aisle. But Max grabs a can of beans and slams it down on the tough guy's nose. The guy goes down and Max shoots out the exit. 
EXT. UNDERNEATH CAR - NIGHT Max dives under a car and crawls for terror. He sees two sets of feet nun by. Max starts to relax when he notices a pair of heels on the other side of the car. Marcy bends down and looks at him. 
MARCY DAWSON Enough, Max, c'mon out. MAX Leave me alone. I don't know anything. 
Max retreats in the opposite direction. Suddenly Jake and Brad grab him and drag him out. 
MAX Hey! Hey! Hey! They search him, taking his wallet, keys, everything. 
Marcy looks at the guys, who shake their heads. She walks over to Max and shows Max the front page of the Wall Street Journal. It reads, "MARKET CRACHES" 
MARCY DAWSON You're responsible for this. MAX I didn't do anything. I didn't play the market. 
MARCY DAWSON But we did. Marcy pulls out a folded, worn piece of paper. She opens it. It's Max's stock pick that he threw out. Part of THE number is on the page 
MARCY DAWSON You have to be careful where you throw out your trash. 
MAX Farrouhk what about Farrouhk!? LENNY MEYER Stay down! Ephraim pushes Max's head down. Yisrael takes another corner sharp. 
MAX Go back! LENNY MEYER He's okay, he got in his cab. We've been looking for you. MAX What's going on? LENNY MEYER Do you have the number? MAX What's going on? LENNY MEYER Do you have the number? MAX Yeah, I have it! LENNY MEYER You have it. Where is it? You have it written down? 
MAX What is it? Lenny nods to Ephraim, who starts scanning through Max's pockets. Max resists. The other guys hold him down. 
MAX What are you doing!? What the hell are you doing!? 
LENNY MEYER We're not joking around, Max? Where's the number? MAX (Pushing Ephraim away) It's not on me. It's in my head. 
LENNY MEYER You memorized it? Did you give it to them? 
MAX Who? LENNY MEYER Who!? Those Wall Street bastards. 
MAX Why do you care? LENNY MEYER Just answer me! MAX Screw you! LENNY MEYER (In Hebrew) Hit him! Yisrael screeches the car to a halt. He spins around in his seat and looks Max in the face. 
LENNY MEYER You're dealing with something really big now, Max. I don't want to hurt you, so answer me. Did you give it to them? 
MAX They've got part of it Now get off me! 
LENNY MEYER Damn it! Damn it! They're using it. 
MAX Using what? LENNY MEYER Shut up! MAX Let go! Max chews into Ephraim's hand which is pinning him. Ephraim screams and lets loose a punch to Max's jaw. 
LENNY MEYER No, don't! But Lenny is late, and Max's world - as well as ours goes black. 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Max stares suspiciously at the bathroom. He slowly picks up his drill. Wielding it like a hammer, he carefully advances into the BATHROOM where he looks into the sink. He almost vomits when he sees a piece of human brain sitting above the drain. Ants swarm across its surface. 
Max becomes furious. He whacks it with the drill. Blood flies up into his face. In a wild rage, he smashes it and punches it. 
Then he drops the drill and uses his bare hands to shove it down the drain. Screaming like a madman, he jams it until it is gone. 
LENNY MEYER We're pure. Give us the number! 
MAX The number is nothing. You know that! 
RAV COHEN We can use it. We can wield it. 
MAX It's just a number. I'm sure you've written down every two hundred sixteen number. You've translated all of them. You've intoned them all. Haven't you? But what's it gotten you? It's not the number! It's the meaning. It's the syntax. It's what's between the numbers. If you could understand you would. But it's not for you! I've got it. I understand it. I'm going to see it! (Whispers to Rav Cohen) Rabbi...I was chosen. EXT. CITY STREETS - DAY 
Max races through the streets of New York. He is wide-eyed. 
MAX (V.0.) Suddenly, it's all there. It all makes sense. I can crack it. I can know it. I know what it is. Sol knows, too. I need to tell him. I need to show him. I need to bring him with me. People fly by. Max in a spiraling whirlwind. 
EXT. SOL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A pumped and excited Max paces the hall as he rings the bell. 
The door opens. But it isn't Sol. It's a young, beautiful woman wearing a simple black dress. Her name is JENNY ROBESON and she is Sol's niece. 
JENNY ROBESON Can I help you? MAX (Confused) Sol? JENNY ROBESON Were you a friend? MAX What do you mean? JENNY ROBESON He had a second stroke. MAX Where is he? Jenny's eyes drop. 
MAX No. Max rushes into Sol s study. The room is covered with Sol's P, research books. It seems Sol had recently come out of retirement. Max looks at a few of Sol's books. Then he finds a piece of paper with Sol's handwriting on it. On the paper is THE number. Max slides it into his pocket. 
Max looks at the Go board. The pieces are arranged in a giant spiral across the board. 
DISSOLVE TO 
INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Max sits on his bed staring at Sol's handwritten number. Then he notices that his thumb is twitching. He drops Sol's note. 
MAX Stop it, please! 
