THE PIANIST 
by Ronald Harwood 
based on the published memoir by Wladyslaw Szpilman 
Final Draft, 1998 
Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all dialogue spoken by Germans will be in the German language and subtitled. 
FADE IN: 
INT. WARSAW (ARCHIVE) - DAY 
Black and white. Street scene. People toing and froing.  A man rattles by. 
SUPERIMPOSE CAPTION: 
WARSAW 1939 
INT. STUDIO, RADIO STATION, WARSAW - DAY 
WLADYSLAV SZPILMAN plays Chopin's Nocturne in C sharp minor, Posthumous. He's twenty-eight years old, elegant and handsome. 
In the booth, separated from the studio by a glass screen, an engineer, wearing collar and tie, monitors the broadcast. Behind him, a window to the street with strips of paper taped on it as protection against blast. 
Without warning, a bomb drops nearby, then another and another. The whole building shudders alarmingly and the window in the booth shatters. 
The engineer and Szpilman exchange a look as a man enters the booth and talks urgently to the Engineer, then goes. 
The engineer makes a 'cut-throat' gesture, but Szpilman shakes his head, determined to play on. 
He plays, then glances at the booth. The engineer has gone, but through the shattered window he sees fires raging. 
Very near, a loud, terrifying explosion. The reverberations cause plaster to flake and dust to trickle down over his face. 
And then a bomb explodes even closer. The glass screen separating booth from studio implodes, showering Szpilman with glass. He stops, frozen. 
INT. STAIRS AND LOBBY, RADIO STATION - DAY 
Pandemonium. Chaos. People rushing in all directions, many carrying files, boxes, papers, shouting, calling. Some of the men in military uniform. The bombing continuous. Szpilman fights his way down the stairs. He has a small cut on his forehead and is dabbing it with his handkerchief. He has a dazed look. Halfway down the stairs, A young woman, DOROTA, tugs at his sleeve: 
DOROTA Mr. Szpilman. 
He turns, to see an extremely pretty young woman gazing adoringly at him while they're jostled and shoved. His eyes light up. 
SZPILMAN Hello. 
DOROTA I came specially to meet you today. I love your playing, but what a day to choose. 
SZPILMAN Who are you? 
DOROTA My name's Dorota, I'm Jurek's sister. oh! You're bleeding. 
SZPILMAN It's nothing. 
JUREK pushes in beside them and takes her arm. 
JUREK C'mon, Dorota, you can write him a fan letter later, this isn't the best time, c'mon. 
Jurek, pulling Dorota, fights his way down the stairs. 
SZPILMAN (calling) Jurek, why have you been hiding her? 
And he, too, is carried with the flow into the lobby. Debris everywhere. Szpilman fights to get to the main door, when another bomb explodes, filling the air with dust and debris, obscuring him and everyone else. 
INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - DUSK 
The Szpilman family in panic: coming and going out of rooms, packing clothes and belongings into open suitcases and a trunk in a comfortable, tastefully furnished bourgeois apartment, the living room lined with books, paintings and boasting a boudoir grand, silver platters and candlesticks. The family consist of MOTHER, in a state of great anxiety, FATHER, REGINA, twenty-six, HALINA, twenty-two, and HENRYK, twenty-four, the only one not in movement. He sits by the radio set, ear to the speaker, trying to tune to a station. No bombs now, just the distant sound of artillery fire. Father, holding a silver-framed photograph, crosses to Mother. 
FATHER What you think, should I take Uncle Szymon's photograph? 
MOTHER Take it, don't take it, take what you like. Can't you see I'm worried sick? 
FATHER He'll come home, he'll be all right. 
He goes into his room. She can barely control her tears and hurries into the kitchen just as the front door opens and Szpilman enters, looks round bemused by the activity. 
They gather round. 
RADIO ANNOUNCER ... an important announcement. News has just been received through the BBC that Great Britain, having had no reply... (static) ...and therefore has declared war on Nazi Germany... (a collective gasp) ... next few hours... awaiting latest news... 
Henryk hits the set. 
RADIO ANNOUNCER ... but France is expected to make a similar announcement... (static) ... Poland is no longer alone. 
The Polish national anthem plays. All are still. 
INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Father pours liqueur into glasses. 
The family are seated around the dining table, having just finished a meal. The table groans with the remains of the dinner. Szpilman has a plaster over his cut. 
HENRYK (lighting up a cigarette) Mama, that was a great dinner. 
SZPILMAN It certainly was. 
MOTHER When there's something to celebrate, you've got to make an effort. 
The glasses are handed round. 
FATHER Here's to Great Britain and France. 
They all clink glasses and drink. 
FATHER I told you. Didn't I tell you? All will be well. 
EXT. RUINED WARSAW STREET - DAY 
A column of German Soldiers, led by an officer on horseback, march into view. 
On the sidewalk of the street, with its buildings in ruins, smoke still rising, stand onlookers, including Szpilman and Henryk, and a little behind them, Father, craning to see. They watch, expressionless, as the Germans march past. 
INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - DAY 
Regina is opening and closing the window, examining the frame with her fingers. Halina is on a box, removing and replacing books. Mother sits at one end of the table, polishing a man's watch and chain. At the other end, Father sits counting a small stack of notes and coins. Henryk is deep in thought and Szpilman is fiddling with his father's violin. The apartment has less furniture now and the silver has gone. 
FATHER (finishing the counting) Five thousand and three. 
MOTHER Is that all? 
FATHER Yes, five thousand and three zlotys, that's all we've got left. 
REGINA It's three thousand and three zlotys too much, (reading from newspaper) 'Re: Further restrictions regarding liquid assets: Jews will be allowed to keep a maximum of two thousand zlotys in their homes.' 
MOTHER What are we supposed to do with the rest? 
HALINA Deposit it in a bank. Blocked account. 
HENRYK Banks? Who'd be stupid enough to deposit money in a German bank? 
REGINA We could hide the money here in the window frame. 
FATHER No, no, no. I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll use tried and tested methods. You know what we did in the last war? We made a hole in the table leg and we hid the money in there. 
HENRYK And suppose they take the table away? 
MOTHER What d'you mean, take the table away? 
HENRYK The Germans go into Jewish homes and they just take what they want, furniture, valuables, anything. 
MOTHER Do they? 
FATHER Idiot! What would they want with a table? 
All look at the table: it's covered in stains and the veneer is coming away at one end. A table like this? 
He pokes his finger under the veneer. It snaps, revealing bare wood beneath. 
MOTHER What on earth are you doing? 
HALINA There's a good place under the cupboard. 
HENRYK No, no. Listen, I've been thinking -- 
SZPILMAN Wladek, please. 
Amidst their laughter, he takes her hand and kisses it. 
INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The family are gathered around the table, listening to Father reading from the newspaper. 
The apartment has even less furniture now. The paintings are gone. 
FATHER (reading) 'Re: emblems for Jews in the Warsaw District. I hereby order that all Jews in the Warsaw District will wear visible emblems when out of doors. This decree will come into force on the 1st December 1939 and applies to all Jews over twelve years of age. The emblem will be worn on the right sleeve and will represent a blue Star of David on a white background. The background must be sufficiently large for the Star to measure eight centimetres from point to point. The width of the arms of the Star (reading) must be one centimetre. Jews who do not respect this decree will be severely punished. Governor of Warsaw District, Dr. Fischer.' 
Silence. Then: 
HENRYK I won't wear it. 
REGINA won't wear it. I'm not going to be branded. 
SZPILMAN (grabbing the newspaper) Let me see this. 
FATHER Doesn't it say we have to provide these armbands ourselves? Where will we get them? 
HENRYK We're not going to get them. We're not going to wear them! 
Silence, each locked in their own thoughts. 
EXT. WARSAW STREET - DAY 
Father, wearing the Star of David armband, walks slowly along, carrying a string bag containing potatoes and carrots, his eyes fixed on the pavement as if his thoughts are a million miles away. 
He passes two GERMAN OFFICERS. They stop. 
GERMAN OFFICER (a harsh shout) You! 
Father stops, turns fearfully and approaches the Germans. 
GERMAN OFFICER Why didn't you bow? 
FATHER (removing his hat) I'm sorry I... 
I German Officer cracks him hard across the face, catching his ear. Father reels, collects himself as best he can and starts to shuffle on - 
GERMAN OFFICER (calling after him) You are forbidden to walk on the pavement. Walk in the gutter! 
Father steps off the pavement and walks in the gutter. The German turn and go. Father walks on. 
INT. WARSAW APARTMENT - EVENING 
Szpilman composing at the piano. He plays, makes adjustments with a pencil to the manuscript, plays again. The flat is almost bare. Halina, enters with a newspaper. 
HALINA Have you seen this? 
SZPILMAN (irritated) What, I'm working, what? 
She hands him the paper. He looks at it. His expression darkens. 
INSERT: 
the newspaper. A map of the proposed Jewish area: two distinct districts, one large, one smaller. 
SZPILMAN'S VOICE What is it? 
HALINA'S VOICE That's where they're going to put us. 
SZPILMAN'S VOICE What d'you mean, put us? 
THE APARTMENT: 
She looks over his shoulder and reads. As she does so, the door of Henryk's room opens and he stands leaning in the doorway, watching, as if amused. 
HALINA 'By order of the Governor of the Warsaw District, Dr. Fischer, concerning the establishment of the Jewish District in Warsaw. There will be created a Jewish District in which all Jews living in Warsaw or moving to Warsaw will have to reside."  And look here: 'Jews living outside of the prescribed area will have to move to the Jewish district by 31st of October 1940.' 
Szpilman gazes at the map, horrified. 
SZPILMAN But...they won't get all of us... we'll...it's too small...there's four hundred thousand of us in Warsaw! 
HENRYK No. Three hundred and sixty thousand, so it'll be easy. 
Two rooms on the third floor: a living room and a kitchen. The Szpilmans are unpacking their belongings in silence. Father pauses for a moment to take stock. 
FATHER To tell you the truth, I thought it would be worse. 
SZPILMAN How will we sleep? 
MOTHER I'll sleep with the girls in the kitchen. You, Henrykc and Papa in here. 
HALINA (at a window) Look! Come and look! 
They all go to the window and look out. 
Their POV - the street. 
Further along, men are building a wall across the street. 
EXT. GHETTO WALL - DAY 
A SERIES OF SHOTS: 
THE WALL. THE WALL. THE WALL. 
EXT. MARKET AREA, GHETTO - DAY 
Winter. Cold, freezing day. Slush underfoot. Great activity. People selling shoes, clothes, carpets, curtains, food. A woman offers cakes under a barbed-wire cover. Noise, bustle, restless wing and froing. 
Among the traders, Henryk, slightly shabbier now, and at his feet a basket with books. He holds a couple of volumes in his hands, trying to interest passers-by. 
Szpilman, also a little shabbier, wends his way through the setters and buyers, the beggars, the passers-by, and reaches Henryk. 
Henryk drops the two volumes into the basket, takes a handle one side of the basket, Szpilman the other. They set off. 
As they walk, carrying the basket between them, passing beggars and children asking for food: 
SZPILMAN You sell anything? 
HENRYK Just one. Dostoevsky. The Idiot. Three zlotys. 
SZPILMAN That's better than yesterday. 
HENRYK Three lousy zlotys. And there are people here making millions. 
SZPILMAN I know. 
HENRYK You don't know, believe me. They bribe the guards. The guards turn a blind eye. They're bringing in cartloads, food, tobacco, liquor, French cosmetics, and the poor are dying all around them and they don't give a damn. 
Suddenly, a WOMAN appears in front of them, barring their way. She's brightly rouged with thickly painted eyebrows, dressed in an old green velvet curtain with an unsteady mauve ostrich feather rising from her straw hat. 
THE FEATHER WOMAN Excuse me, but have you by any chance seen my husband Izaak Szerman? 
SZPILMAN I'm afraid not. 
THE FEATHER WOMAN A tall handsome man with a little grey beard? 
They shake their heads. 
THE FEATHER WOMAN No? (she is near to tears, then smiles artificially.) Oh, do forgive me. (as she goes) Goodbye, sleep well, if you see him, please do write, Izaak Szerman's his name... 
She wanders on. Szpilman and Henryk, too, continue on their way. And as they go: 
HENRYK Sometimes I wish I could go mad. 
EXT. CHLODNA STREET - DAY 
A stream of cars and trams. Jewish policemen and German soldiers much in evidence. 
Szpilman and Henryk join a large crowd of Jews waiting at a barrier to cross the intersection. The crowd is agitated, impatient for a policeman to stop the traffic and let them through. 
A MAN next to Szpilman and Henryk is becoming more and more distraught, shifting his weight from foot to foot, taking off and putting on his hat. 
THE NERVOUS MAN This is totally insane; why do we have to have a gentile street running through our area? Can't they go around? 
HENRYK Don't worry about it, they're about to build a bridge, haven't you heard? 
THE NERVOUS MAN A bridge, a schmidge, and the Germans claim to be intelligent. You know what I think?  I think they're totally stupid. I've got a family to feed and I spend half my time here waiting for them to let us through. 
Meanwhile, a street band begins to play a waltz. Jewish policemen and German soldiers are clearing a space, shoving Jews out of the way, including Szpilman, Henryk and the nervous man. Other soldiers are clearing a space. 
Benek points to the customer, who makes an imploring gesture to Szpilman. Szpilman stops playing. 
The friend watches the customer intently as he drops the coins one by one onto the marble. He drops them, puts his ear close and listens.  Two or three he discards, but he smiles when coins make a pure tone, and he keeps them. 
Szpilman exchanges looks with a pretty whore, who makes eyes at him. 
Satisfied, the customer beams, nods his thanks to Szpilman, who resumes his piano playing. 
EXT. GHETTO STREET - DUSK 
Szpilman walking. He passes emaciated children and beggars. He steps over the corpses lying on the sidewalk. 
EXT. STREET NEAR WALL - DUSK 
The wall runs the length of the street, dividing it in half and narrowing it. Buildings on one side, the wall on the other. 
Szpilman walks along. A piercing whistle from the Aryan side.  Szpilman stops. 
Two women appear from a doorway, approach the wall and look up.  Two or three packages come flying over from the Aryan side. The women grab them and disappear. 
Szpilman walks on and sees a child appear through a hole at ground level. The child wriggles through then turns, pulls a package after him and runs. 
Szpilman walks on, hears a noise, looks back to see a SECOND CHILD trying to wriggle through the same hole. But he's stuck. Angry German voices from the Aryan side. 
2ND CHILD Help me! help me! 
Szpilman goes to him, pulls him with all his might but the boy is jammed in the hole. 
From the other side of the wall, the sound of an angry German voice and of a boot stamping violently on the boy. The boy screams in agony. 
Szpilman continues to try to pull the boy through. 
The sound of the German voice swearing and the dull, crunching noise made by the boot smashing into the boy continues, and with every thud the boy screams in terrible pain. 
Szpilman struggles to help the boy whose screams are becoming weaker yet increasingly desperate. 
Szpilman pulls his arms and finally manages to get him through. The boy lies moaning. 
Szpilman takes the boy's face in his hands, tries to comfort him, revive him, but the boy has stopped moaning. His head lolls and his jaw sags. He is dead. Szpilman stands quickly and hurries away. 
EXT. COURTYARD AND HOUSE - EVENING 
Szpilman approaches the house through a shabby yard. 
INT. JEHUDA ZYSKIND'S ROOM - EVENING 
The noise of a mimeograph machine. A huge, CHEERFUL MAN with a perpetual cigarette in his mouth. 
JEHUDA I always say look on the bright side. You're in the small ghetto, intellectuals, professional people, you're better off than us. Here, in the large ghetto, it's a cesspool. But you, you're living in Monte Carlo. You could say you're privileged and that, of course, goes against my principles. Nevertheless... 
He laughs and coughs, starts looking through papers. His room is piled from floor to ceiling with old papers and stuff. Dark, shabby, run-down. 
One of his sons, SYMCHE, is operating the mimeograph machine. The other, DOLEK, is sorting the sheets as they come off the roller.  MRS. ZYSKIND, holding a toddler, is cooking at a small stove. 
JEHUDA finds what he's been looking for, a newspaper made up of a few sheets. 
JEHUDA Ah, here. Today's news from the other side. 
SZPILMAN You're amazing, Jehuda. 
JEHUDA No, I'm a socialist. I have brothers everywhere. They bring me news and food. We care about our fellow human beings. Workers of the world unite. 
SZPILMAN So, what's the news? 
JEHUDA (scanning the paper) The Germans are advancing on Kharkhov. 
SZPILMAN I don't know why I come here every evening, it's always such bad news. 
JEHUDA Bad news, you crazy? You have no world view, Wladek, that's your trouble. The news couldn't be better. The moment Hitler invaded Russia, I knew we'd be all right. Remember Napoleon. Same business. The Germans will freeze to death, please God. 
He beams. Szpilman leans over, takes a sheet from the mimeograph. 
SZPILMAN Jehuda, give me something to do. 
JEHUDA You're an artist, Wladek, you keep people's spirits up. You do enough. 
SZPILMAN But I want to help, I want to. 
The Szpilmans gather at their open window to watch. Regina turns off the lights before joining them. They are all terrified. Their half-eaten meal still on the table behind them. 
POV - from Szpilman apartment: the building opposite. 
The SS men pouring into the building opposite. Sound of the jackboots on stairs. Lights go on floor by floor. 
In an apartment directly opposite, a businessman, his wife, three young people and an old man in a wheelchair sit at their dining table. The SS men burst in, machine pistols at the ready. The family is frozen with horror, remain seated. 
The NCO scans their faces. 
NCO (in a towering rage) Stand up! 
The family rise to their feet fast, except for the old man in the wheelchair. The NCO bears down on him. 
NCO Stand up! 
The old man in the wheelchair grips the arms of the chair and tries desperately to stand. But he can't. Without warning, the SS men seize the chair with the old man in it, carry him out on to the balcony. 
THE SZPILMANS: 
Mother SCREAMS, Father shrinks back, Halina comforts him and Regina comforts Mother. 
Szpilman's and Henryk 's POV - the apartment opposite: 
The SS men throw the old man in his wheelchair over the balcony. He seems to hang in the air for a second then drops out of the chair and out of sight. But there's a terrible thud as his body hits the pavement and a clatter as the wheelchair follows him. 
THE SZPILMANS: 
Mother sobbing. The others, still horrified. 
REGINA (softly, to Mother) Be quiet, Mama, for God's sake, be quiet! 
Then sound of shots, slamming doors, screams, shouts. 
Szpilman and Henryk hurry to another window so that they can see what's going on. 
Their POV from second window building opposite and street: 
SS Men herding a couple of dozen prisoners from the building opposite. 
People watching from the windows but trying not to be seen. 
The headlights of the SS vehicle are switched on and the SS Men are forcing their prisoners to stand in the beam. 
A GERMAN VOICE Run!  Run! 
The prisoners start to run. 
The SS men open fire with a machine gun mounted on the vehicle. People in the building opposite begin to SCREAM. 
The prisoners are being shot down. They are lifted into the air by the bullets, turn somersaults, fall dead. 
One man escapes by running back in the opposite direction, out of the beam of light and is lost to sight for a moment. 
The escaping man, a silhouette, out of the light, runs with all his strength, putting distance between himself and the SS. He starts to scale a wall. He looks as though he's getting away. 
But there's a floodlight on the SS vehicle. It flares into light, swivels and finds the man. A volley of shots. 
The man drops from the wall, dead. The SS men get into the vehicle and speed off, driving over the dead bodies. 
THE SZPILMANS: 
Szpilman and Henryk stare at the scene, silent, shocked. The only sounds, the weeping of the people opposite and, nearer, Mother crying softly. 
INT. CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY 
Szpilman, as if in another world, playing the piano. The cafe is full of customers but the atmosphere is much more subdued than previously, the mood is sombre. 
EXT.  CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY 
A doorman with a cudgel beats away the beggars from the door as Halina, distraught and out of breath, runs to the cafe entrance. The doorman lets her in. 
INT. CAFE NOWACZESNA - DAY 
Szpilman snaps out of his reverie, seeing, across the heads of the customers, Halina, in a state of great anxiety, beckoning urgently. 
Szpilman quickly brings the piece to a close, stands, steps off the platform, threads his way through to Halina. She's shivering, almost unable to speak. 
Szpilman waits and watches, and then a POOR WOMAN passes, carrying a can wrapped in newspaper followed by a RAGGED OLD MAN, dragging himself along. He's shivering with cold, his shoes with holes show his purple feet. 
The ragged old man suddenly lunges forward and tries to grab the can from the poor woman. They struggle desperately. 
POOR WOMAN (screaming) A snatcher! Help me, a snatcher! 
The can falls to the pavement and thick, steaming soup pours into the dirty street. 
Szpilman watches, rooted to the spot. The ragged old man stares at the can, lets out a groan, more like a whimper, and throws himself full length in the slush, licking the soup up from the pavement. The poor woman starts to howl, kicking the old man and tearing at her hair in despair. 
Then: 
RUBINSTEIN'S VOICE Boys, keep your peckers up! And girls, keep your legs crossed! 
RUBINSTEIN, a ragged, dishevelled little man, Chaplinesque, waving a stick, hopping and jumping, approaches the Germans outside the bureau. 
RUBINSTEIN Don't let 'em get you down - 
He approaches a couple of Shupos. 
RUBINSTEIN Bandits! Crooks!  Thieves! 
He waves his stick at them. They laugh. One of them bows low. 
1ST SHUPO Good day, Herr Rubinstein. 
RUBINSTEIN If that means good day, I'm your man, you gangsters, robbers, pirates! 
2ND SHUPO (tapping his head) Mad! 
RUBINSTEIN Ich bin meshuge, you bandit! 
Almost in tears with laughter, they give him a cigarette and he goes on his way. 
Szpilman almost smiles, then looks again at the building. He waits. 
EXT. ALLEY AND LABOUR BUREAU, LATER - DUSK 
Sun just setting. 
From the shelter of the alleyway, Szpilman continues to watch the entrance of the bureau. No mob any more, but people come and go - jewish policemen, shupos, a few jews. 
Almost continuous sounds of distant shots and screams. 
Then, Heller appears at the entrance, looks this way and that and goes back inside the building. Szpilman alert. Again Heller appears in the entrance. He beckons someone inside. Henryk shuffles out. Heller shoves him into the street. Henryk stumbles, falls. 
Szpilman runs to him, helps him to his feet. 
HENRYK (immediately on the attack, furious) You go to Heller, did I ask you to talk to him? 
SZPILMAN You're out, aren't you? 
They start to walk. 
HENRYK Did you beg, did you grovel to that piece of shit, that cockroach? 
SZPILMAN I didn't grovel, I asked him to help. 
HENRYK What did you pay him? 
SZPILMAN Pay him? With what? With what could I pay him? Every zloty I earn we spend on food! 
HENRYK I can look after myself! 
SZPILMAN They were taking you away. 
HENRYK It's nothing to do with you. It's me they wanted, not you. Why do you interfere in other people's business? 
SZPILMAN You're mad, that's your trouble, you're mad. 
HENRYK That's also my business. 
They walk on. 
EXT. CHLODNA STREET BRIDGE - DUSK 
A wooden bridge has been constructed, linking the small ghetto to the large ghetto. Few people about, mostly beggars and children. 
FATHER (doffing his hat) Thank you. 
SCHULTZ (beaming, German accent) My pleasure. It won't help you anyway. 
EXT. CHLODNA STREET BRIDGE - DAY 
A great mass of agitated people crossing only one way: from the small ghetto to the large ghetto, carrying their belongings. A German film crew records the scene. The Szpilmans among the crowd, lugging suitcases and bundles, Henryk with a few books, Father carrying his violin case. They struggle across the bridge. 
EXT./INT. YARD AND WAREHOUSE - DAY 
A truck backing up. The tail-gate is opened to reveal a huge load of furniture, linen, clothing, mirrors, carpets, bedclothes. Three Jews inside the van start to unload the stuff, dumping it in the yard. 
Other Jews stand ready to start sorting the load, among them the Szpilman family. Shupos and Jewish policemen supervise. 
Each has their allotted task: Szpilman and Henryk sort out carpets, Father mirrors, Regina linen, Halina and Mother, clothing. 
The sounds of trains not far off. 
They carry the stuff into the warehouse. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
Szpilman and the others bring their piles of things into the warehouse, which is crammed with similar objects, an Aladdin's cave. 
The activity continuous. 
INT. SLEEPING QUARTERS, ABOVE WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
semi-darkness. A large room with an improvised partition of blankets to separate the men from the women. Three-tiered bunks. 
On the men's side, Father is on the upper bunk, Henryk on the lower. Szpilman, stripping down to his underwear, is preparing to climb into the middle bunk. 
FATHER At least we've got work in the ghetto. At least we're still together. 
Szpilman nods, climbs into his bunk, settles down. Somewhere near, the sound of a train. 
Then a volley of shots, German voices shouting. 
Szpilman slips off his bunk, hurries to the door, opens it and comes face to face with a German NCO and soldiers. 
NCO Out! Assemble in the yard! 
SZPILMAN We're employed here, we've got certificates - 
The NCO cracks Szpilman across the face, turns and goes. 
Szpilman retreats into the room, his nose bleeding. The women are watching from behind the blankets, but Mother hurries towards Szpilman. She wipes his nose. 
Shots, shouts, a scream. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE YARD - DAWN 
Still quite dark. The Szpilmans and about twenty others lined up under lights shining on them from a couple of German vehicles. 
The NCO goes along the line, making a selection, using his pistol to prod people into moving. When he gets to the Szpilmans he selects Henryk and Halina. Then, he turns to those who are left: 
NCO The rest of you get dressed then report back here. Bring your belongings. Fifteen kilos only. 
A YOUNG WOMAN Where are you taking us? 
The NCO turns his pistol on the young woman and shoots her through the head. He marches off while she lies on the ground with blood spurting out of her. 
INT. SZPILMAN ROOMS, WAREHOUSE - DAWN 
The partition has been pulled aside. People, including the Szpilmans, are dressing or dressed, packing up their belongings. 
SZPILMAN I'm sorry, I did my best, I thought the certificates would save us all. 
MOTHER Stop it, Wladek. 
REGINA Let's just hope that Henryk and Halina will be better off - 
Sounds of shots, screams, shouts, a piercing whistle. 
EXT. STREET LEADING TO UMSCHLAGPLATZ - MORNING 
Hot, fine summer's day. Jews, among them Szpilman, Mother, Regina and father, clutching their meagre belongings, walk towards wooden gates and come to a halt. Jewish policemen approach and order the people about, pushing and shoving them into line. 
FATHER Dr. Ehrlich, what do you want me to do? You want me to fight? 
GRUN To fight you need organisation, plans, guns! 
FATHER He's right. What d'you think I can do? Fight them with my violin bow? 
GRUN The Germans would never squander a huge labour force like this. They're sending us to a labour camp. 
DR. EHRLICH Oh, sure. Look at that cripple, look at those old people, the children, they're going to work? Look at Mr Szpilman here, he's going to carry iron girders on his back? 
A loud cry from Mother. Szpilman and Father spin round. 
MOTHER Henryk! 
REGINA (glancing up, shocked) Oh my God! 
Near the gates, among a large bunch of new arrivals, Henryk and Halina. 
MOTHER Halina! Henryk! 
Regina and Szpilman also call and wave. Henryk and Halina struggle through to them. Halina falls into Mother's arms and they hug. 
HALINA We heard you were here...we...didn't want...we...we wanted to be with you. 
Mother comforts her. And so does Regina. Father smiles sadly. 
SZPILMAN (shakes his head, almost to himself, a forlorn smile) Stupid, stupid! 
THE YOUNG WOMAN Why did I do it? Why did I do it? 
Szpilman stands and stares at her. 
Later: 
The sun lower but the heat still intense. 
The place is now packed to suffocation. People calling out names, trying to find each other. The wailing of women and the cries of children. 
A cordon of Jewish policemen and SS guards are, almost surreptitiously, ringing the compound. 
The Szpilmans sit in the same place, with Henryk sitting a little apart and now reading a small book. 
THE YOUNG WOMAN Why did I do it? Why did I do it? 
HALINA She's getting on my nerves. What did she do, for God's sake? 
Grun leans across to her. 
GRUN (quietly, to Halina) She smothered her baby. 
Halina looks at him in disbelief. 
GRUN They'd prepared a hiding place and so, of course, they went there. But the baby cried just as the police came. She smothered the cries with her hands. The baby died. A policeman heard the death rattle. He found where they were hiding. 
Later: 
Szpilman and Henryk. 
SZPILMAN What are you reading? 
HENRYK (a crooked, ironic smile) 'If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?' 
Szpilman takes the book and reads the title page: THE MERCHANT OF VENICE BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. 
SZPILMAN Very appropriate. 
HENRYK (taking the book back and resuming his reading) Yes, that's why I brought it. 
Later: 
The Szpilmans seated on the kerb. Their attention is caught by a BOY who has a box of sweets on a string round his neck. And he's setting the sweets, pocketing money. 
HENRYK Idiot. What's he think he's going to do with the money? 
Father calls to the Sweet Boy and beckons him over. 
FATHER How much for a caramel? 
EXT. TRAIN - DAY 
The doors of the trucks are closed. The train begins to move. Slow, laborious. From the trucks, the faint cries of the occupants. 
EXT.  STREET BY THE SIDING - DAY 
Szpilman catches his breath by a building. An SS man and Jewish policeman emerge. The Jewish policeman is servile, crawling to the German. He points to the train - 
JEWISH POLICEMAN Well, off they go for meltdown! 
They laugh as they walk away. Szpilman turns and stumbles down the empty street. The cries from the trucks fading. He begins to weep, loud, agonised sobs, and staggers on. 
EXT.  GHETTO STREET - EVENING 
Szpilman, lost, empty, aimless, tries to catch his breath in the aftermath of his tears. 
He wanders forlornly down the street, passing empty buildings with their doors open, windows smashed. Furniture, torn mattresses and pillows lie scattered. Feathers fly. Desolation. 
He turns a corner. 
EXT. COURTYARD, JEHUDA'S STREET - EVENING 
Szpilman comes into the courtyard. He stops, his face blank. 
Lying outside the door, the bodies of Jehuda, Mrs. Zyskind, their two sons and the toddler.  Szpilman steps across the bodies. 
INT. JEHUDA ZYSKIND'S ROOM - EVENING 
Chaos. Papers, pamphlets strewn all over the place. The mimeograph smashed. 
Szpilman enters, stands, surveying the devastation. 
Distant sounds of shooting, shouts, cries. 
He gathers up some papers in a pile, takes off his jacket and covers the pile of papers, making a pillow. He lies down on the floor. 
He stares into the darkness, expressionless, empty. 
EXT. STREET NEAR CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY 
Szpilman shuffles along, comes to the cafe. No sign of life, but the door is wide open. He goes inside. 
INT. CAFE NOWOCZESNA - DAY 
A shambles. Szpilman wanders through the upturned tables, broken chairs. Stops, looks about. Nothing. 
Distant shots, automatic fire. 
He turns and makes for the door. Then he hears an urgent hiss. He turns sharply and tries to find the source of it. He hears the hiss again. 
Now he sees, hiding under the platform, Benek, beckoning to him. Szpilman hurries over and crawls on his back until he's beside him. Benek replaces a plank and they are hidden from view. 
INT. UNDER THE PLATFORM, GHETTO CAFE - DAY 
Thin slivers of light illuminate the two men on their backs in the cramped space. 
BENEK (looking at him, mystified) Why are you here, Mr. Wladek? 
SZPILMAN It's like this... I...we...all of them. 
He can't continue. Benek nods. 
BENEK Perhaps they're lucky. The quicker the better. (Brief pause.) It isn't over yet. We'll stay here for a couple of days. Until things die down. (Another pause) I've bribed a policeman. He'll come when it's over. 
EXT.  GHETTO STREET - DAY 
In bright sun, Szpilman and Benek march in a column, four abreast, under the command of two Jewish foremen, guarded by two German policemen. They are being marched out of the ghetto gates. 
SZPILMAN (to Benek) My God. I haven't been outside for - it must be two years. 
FELLOW WORKER (on the other side of him) Don't get over-excited. 
EXT. ZELAZNA BRAMA SQUARE - DAY 
Street traders with baskets full of wares, fruit, vegetables, fish, tins of preserves. Women bargain with them, making purchases. Lively, colourful. Dealers in gold and currency calling monotonously. 
DEALERS Gold, buy gold! Dollars! Roubles! 
SS LIEUTENANT You lie to me again and I'll shoot you personally. 
He kicks Szpilman viciously and marches away. Szpilman catches his breath, then quickly reaches into the bottom of the sack and finds a pistol and ammunition. He hides them under his clothes. 
EXT. STREET LEADING TO GHETTO - NIGHT 
Freezing cold. The Jewish workers, with their bundles of potatoes and bread, march back towards the ghetto gates escorted by the two Polish policemen. In the column, Szpilman, near the policeman with the moustache, and a little behind them, Majorek. Distant sounds of gunfire. 
Majorek falls in beside Szpilman. 
MAJOREK I tried your friends. They're not at that address any more.  But. 
SZPILMAN You made contact? 
MAJOREK Be ready to leave in two days' time. Same place as last night. 
Sudden, frantic cries from the head of the column, which comes to a stop. 
Two SS men, blind drunk, drinking vodka from bottles, are lashing the column with whips. One of them is Zikk-Zack, . 
SZPILMAN Oh, shit! 
As the SS men advance on Szpilman and Majorek's section, Majorek slips back to his place in the column. Szpilman hides his package inside his coat. 
Zick-Zack lashes out at the workers blindly. 
ZICK-ZACK Und-zick! Und-zack! 
He takes a swig of vodka and comes face to face with Szpilman. 
ZICK-ZACK (shouting") I'll soon teach you discipline! Jew pigs! 
He is staring directly at Szpilman with glassy eyes. Szpilman is terrified, trying as surreptitiously as possible to cover his hidden package with his hands. A moment of danger. Zick-Zack grabs Szpilman by the cottar. 
ZICK-ZACK Know why we beat you? 
No response; shaking him. 
ZICK-ZACK Know why we beat you? 
SZPILMAN (tentatively, in German) No. Why? 
ZICK-ZACK To celebrate New Year's Eve! 
He and his comrade find this hilarious; recovering from his laughter. 
ZICK-ZACK Now, march! Go on, march! 
The column starts to march. .... 
ZICK-ZACK And sing! (he belches.) Sing something cheerful! (laughs.) And sing it good and loud! 
A brief silence, then from the back, a solo voice starts to sing, 'Children of Warsaw will go to fight!' 
Szpilman glances back, sees that it's Majorek singing. Szpilman smiles, Majorek nods. Szpilman joins in. Now, so do the others. 
They march on, singing lustily. 
ALL WORKERS (singing) Hey, ranks unite And follow the White Eagle! Stand up and fight Our mortal enemy. Riflemen, hey! Let's give them fire and brimstone. We'll blow away The yoke of slavery. Punish and rout The rapists of our nation. We'll smash the knout To save our dignity. Soon we'll be proud Of our liberation - 
Hey, take your sights! Aim sharply at the heart. Hey, load! Hey, shoot! Hey, load! Hey, shoot! Give 'em a bloody start! Hey, load! Hey, shoot! Aim sharply at the heart. 
The column reaches the lamp posts near the ghetto gates. Szpilman his package over the wall. So does Majorek. 
INT./EXT. STORES AND BUILDING SITE - EVENING 
The Jewish workers lined up to get their potatoes and bread. Szpilman and two others weigh the potatoes. 
GERMAN VOICES Get on with it and fall in! Fall in! 
Calmly, Szpilman leaves the table with the scales, walks past Majorek and the others, who, having got their potatoes, are assembling in a column, preparing to march back into the ghetto. The Polish workers have packed up their tools and are talking among themselves, also about to leave the site but in a casual way. 
The SS guards shout orders for the Jewish column to move off. Szpilman seems as if he's going to join them, but at the last moment turns and falls in with the Polish workers, beside Barczak, who just glances at him then moves so that Szpilman is in the middle of the group. 
Szpilman slips off his armband, stuffs it into his pocket. 
The group walk into the darkness. 
The building begins to burn. Flames and smoke. 
German soldiers with flame-throwers advance carefully then unleash their fire into doorways and windows, and quickly retreat. 
At ground level, Jewish fighters try to fight their way out and are mowed down. 
The fire spreads quickly through the building. Smoke begins to pour from the upper floors. 
The Germans, less cautious now, stand and watch. 
A woman struggles out on to her narrow third-floor balcony. She climbs over, holds on to the wrought-iron railings and hangs on for dear life. Shots ring out and she drops like a stone. 
From inside the building, screams and shouts. 
From another upper window, a man in flames jumps and falls to his death on the pavement below. 
The Germans have stopped firing. They stand, spectators, watching the building burn. 
INT./EXT.  1ST APARTMENT - LATER - DAY 
Szpilman at the window, watching, his mood downcast. 
The noise of a key in the door. 
He turns to see the door of the flat open. Janina enters with a parcel of food. She kisses Szpilman on the cheek. 
JANINA wanted to come earlier but... 
She hands him the parcel. 
SZPILMAN Thank you. 
He goes into the small kitchen and unpacks the contents while Janina gazes out of the window. 
JANINA No one thought they'd hold out so long. 
SZPILMAN should never have come out. I should've stayed there, fought with them. 
JANINA (turning to him) Wladek, stop that. It's over now. Just be proud it happened. My God, did they put up a fight. 
SZPILMAN Yes, so did the Germans. 
JANINA They're in shock. They didn't expect it. Nobody expected it. Jews fighting back? Who'd have thought? 
SZPILMAN Yes, but what good did it do? 
JANINA (passionate) What good? Wladek, I'm surprised at you. They died with  dignity, that's what good it did. And you know something else?  Now the Poles will rise. We're ready. We'll fight, too. You'll see. 
she turns to look again out of the window. 
EXT. INSIDE THE GHETTO - EVENING 
The building burning. Corpses lie scattered on the pavement. The Germans stand about chatting and laughing. 
A handful of Jewish fighters are lined up and shot. 
Satisfied, the Commander returns to his car. Another officer confers with him before the engine starts up and he is driven away. The building burns. 
EXT. 1ST APARTMENT, SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Blazing sun. The ghetto buildings now burned-out shells, the street empty. 
EXT. 1ST APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Autumn leaves falling and gusting in the wind. Szpilman gazes out. 
EXT./INT.  1ST APARTMENT - DAY 
Snow. Ice on the windows. 
The sound of the key in the door. 
Szpilman turns as the door opens and Gebczynski enters, distraught. Whispered, at speed: 
GEBCZYNSKI Get your things together, you have to leave! 
SZPILMAN What's happened? 
On various floors, doors open, tenants put their heads out to see what's going on. 
Summoning all his strength, Szpilman makes a dash for it, pushing past Kitty. 
KITTY (screeching) He's a Jew! He's a Jew! Stop the Jew! Don't let him out! 
Szpilman clatters down the stairs, reaches the ground-floor landing. Another woman tries to bar his way but he pushes past her and out of the house. 
EXT. STREET - EVENING 
Heavy snow. Szpilman stumbles into the street and runs. He darts down a side street. 
EXT. SIDE STREET - EVENING 
Szpilman lurches into the narrow street. No one about. He stops, almost collapses, but manages to keep hold of himself. He puts on his coat and wraps the scarf round his neck. He leans up against a wall. 
He removes a shoe and takes out the scrap of paper Gebczynski gave him. He reads it. 
EXT. NARBUTT STREET - NIGHT 
Szpilman drags himself along, trudging through snow and slush. Passers-by give him a wide berth. He tries to walk normally, with dignity, but he's weak and slips, and finds the going hard. 
He comes to a villa. 
INT. VILLA, NARBUTT STREET - NIGHT 
He goes to the front door, rings the bell and waits. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (from behind the door) Yes? 
SZPILMAN Mr Gebczynski sent me. 
The door opens and Dorota stands there. She is pregnant. 
They stand for a moment staring at each other. 
DOROTA (a whisper) Wladyslaw Szpilman. 
SZPILMAN Dorota. 
DOROTA Come in! come in! 
INT. DOROTA'S VILLA - NIGHT 
Szpilman follows Dorota into the living room. 
DOROTA Sit. 
SZPILMAN I'm sorry - I was given this address. I'm looking for a Mr-- (He checks the scrap of paper.') -- a Mr Dzikiewicz. 
DOROTA (nodding) Michal Dzikiewicz. He's my husband. 
Szpilman sits down slowly. 
SZPILMAN I need help. 
DOROTA He'll be back before curfew. 
SZPILMAN I've been in hiding. I need somewhere to stay. 
DOROTA He'll be here soon. 
Awkward silence. He gazes at her. She looks away. 
SZPILMAN How long have you been married? 
DOROTA Just over a year. 
He nods. Brief silence. 
SZPILMAN And how's Yurek? 
DOROTA Dead. 
Again, the awkward silence. 
SZPILMAN When's your baby due? 
The sentry is hit and falls in front of his box. 
As if these young men have given a signal, now from all over the city comes the sound of gunfire. 
The pedestrians have scattered except for the old man, gasping for breath, hobbling on his walking stick, who eventually manages to disappear inside a building. 
Rifle and machine-gun fire from the Schutzpolizei building. 
The firing intense. The three young Poles manoeuvre to the corner opposite the Schutzpolizei and toss grenades into the building. 
EXT. DOWN IN THE STREET - DAY 
A battle raging. 
The Germans firing from the hospital. 
The three young Poles have been joined by other fighters and they the Schutzpolizei building. 
Grenades thrown, machine-gun fire exchanged. 
The sentry box blows up, splinters of wood cascading. A couple of Poles make a dash for it and enter a building opposite to the Schutzpolizei. 
EXT./INT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Szpilman watching from his window, looks in the opposite direction and sees smoke rising. 
When he turns back to look towards the T-junction, he sees a Panzerfaust anti-tank rocket firer poking out from a window in the next-door building but on the floor below. 
The Panzerfaust fires. The shell hits the hospital. 
EXT. CITY SKYLINE - NIGHT 
The city in flames. 
Sound of firing becoming sporadic, less intense. Isolated explosions. 
INT. 2ND APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Szpilman, lying on the bed, staring at the ceiling. 
EXT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
The interior of the Schutzpolizei building burnt to cinders. 
An ambulance is being loaded with patients from the hospital. 
A horse-drawn cab rounds a corner and clatters down the street. 
INT./EXT. 2ND APARTMENT - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Szpilman at the window, watching. 
The horse-drawn cab clatters out of his sight. He is about to draw back when he sees, directly beneath him, a man and woman walking with their hands in the air. Then, a German soldier, pointing his rifle at their backs, appears. 
Suddenly, the man and woman begin to run. 
The man turns and disappears. The woman also turns, but the German soldier drops to one knee and fires. 
The woman clutches her stomach, drops slowly to her knees and collapses on the street in an awkward kneeling position, and that's how she remains. 
Szpilman watches, aghast. Then, he hears voices outside his door, shouts, footsteps, panic. 
THE APARTMENT: 
He runs to his front door and listens. 
VOICES (confused) Where? Where? Just get out! Everywhere! Get out into the street! 
More clatter of footsteps. Then: 
A MAN'S VOICE Get out now! The Germans have surrounded the building! They're going to blow us to pieces. 
Footsteps descending stairs, more shouts, and: 
THE MAN'S VOICE (further off) Everyone out, please! Leave your flats at once, please! 
Szpilman runs to the door, tries it but it's padlocked and he can't open the door. 
EXT. FRONT DOOR AND STREET - NIGHT 
Szpilman watches from the doorway. Then, dropping down, he crawls across the road on his stomach, threading his way through the dead bodies, now besieged by flies, and makes for the hospital opposite. 
German soldiers appear from around a corner. Szpilman immediately lies still, pretending to be just another corpse. Flies alight on him. When the Germans pass, he sets off again. 
INT. RUINED HOSPITAL, OPERATING THEATRE - NIGHT 
Dark.  Szpilman crawls into a corner, rests. He's exhausted. 
He tries to take stock of his surroundings. He can make out the operating table. He manages to drag himself on to it. 
He lies there, his eyes grow heavy. He sleeps. 
EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY 
German soldiers dragging the corpses into a pile. 
A sergeant douses the bodies in petrol, then sets them alight. 
The bodies burn. 
INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
From a shattered window on the first floor, he looks at the burning bodies. 
Two German soldiers wander into his eyeline. He draws back a little but watches them warily. 
They sit just beneath him, chatting, and take out their food-tins, drink coffee and eat bread. 
INT. PASSAGE AND WARDS, RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY 
Szpilman wanders down the passage, sees into the wards, the empty beds, the broken furniture and medical equipment. 
INT. KITCHEN, RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY 
Szpilman opens cupboards, drawers, searching, but trying to be as quiet as possible. 
He sees the refrigerator, quickly gets to it, pulls open the door. Empty. 
He looks around and notices a red fire bucket with a spade and a box of sand next to it. The bucket is full of water, covered with an iridescent film and full of dead flies. 
He drinks as much water as he can without swallowing the flies and, while he's doing so, he spots a couple of sacks. 
He opens the first: potatoes. The second contains barley. 
He tries to eat the uncooked barley but can't. 
Later: 
A fire on the floor. Szpilman holds a saucepan over it and is cooking the barley and some potatoes. He manages to scoop out a spoonful, blows to cool it, then eats. 
INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL - SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Szpilman at a window sees autumn leaves thick on the ground. And at the end of the street, a line of Poles, some with their hands in the air, others with hands on heads, being marched away by German soldiers. 
INT. WARD. RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY. 
Szpilman lies in bed under several layers of blankets. Ice on the windows. He hears German voices shouting commands. He sits up. 
INT./EXT. RUINED HOSPITAL, SZPILMAN'S POV - DAY 
Szpilman gets to a window and looks out. 
German soldiers with flame-throwers are burning the buildings opposite. 
One soldier, with a bucket of white paint and a brush, numbers the building. 
Szpilman cranes to see them reach the end of the street, then cross over and start on the buildings on his side, working their way towards the hospital. 
He pulls away and makes for the back of the hospital. 
INT. BACK OF RUINED HOSPITAL - DAY 
Szpilman goes to a window, jumps out. He twists his ankle. He's in pain. He crawls across the back garden and climbs over the wall. 
EXT. RUINED STREETS - DAY 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN (stern) Who the hell are you? 
Szpilman just stares at him. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Who are you? 
No response. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN What the hell are you doing? 
SZPILMAN (barely audible, in German) I was... I was trying to open this tin. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Where do you live? 
No response. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN What's your work? 
SZPILMAN I am... I was a pianist. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN A pianist. 
He studies Szpilman for a moment, then with a nod orders him to follow. Szpilman picks up the tin and follows. 
INT. ROOMS, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT 
Szpilman follows the German Captain through a double door, hanging off its hinges, into a room with a broken table in the centre, what once was the dining room. And then through another set of doors. The German Captain's boots echo. 
They come into a spacious room. Faint moonlight filters through the large windows. Fallen masonry and broken glass. A couple of chairs. And a grand piano in the corner. 
The German Captain points at the piano. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Play. 
Szpilman hesitates, then limps to the piano, puts down the tin, and opens the lid. He turns and drags one of the chairs over and sits. 
The German Captain stands and watches. 
Szpilman glances surreptitiously at his hands, and then he plays Chopin. 
The German Captain listens, expressionless. The pale moonlight shows him to be a handsome, elegant man. 
Szpilman finishes playing. 
Silence. 
Somewhere, a cat mews. Distant burst of rifle fire. 
The German Captain stares at Szpilman. After a moment: 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Are you hiding here? 
Szpilman nods. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Jew? 
Long pause. Szpilman just stares at him. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Where are you hiding? 
SZPILMAN (in German) In the attic. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Show me. 
Szpilman hesitates, takes the tin and then shuffles past the German Captain towards the door. 
INT. ATTIC AND LOFT AREA, RUINED VILLA - NIGHT 
Szpilman and the German Captain enter. 
The German Captain takes out a flashlight, sees the ladder in place, leading up to the loft. 
Szpilman climbs the ladder, squeezes into the loft and looks down at the German Captain, who shines his light on him. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Have you anything to eat? 
Szpilman shows him the tin. 
SZPILMAN What about you? 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN I've got another one.  Warmer. (brief pause) What will you do when it's all over? 
SZPILMAN I'll play the piano again. On Polish radio. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Tell me your name. I'll listen out for you. 
SZPILMAN Szpilman. 
THE GERMAN CAPTAIN Szpilman. (a crooked smile) Good name for a pianist. 
EXT. STREETS NEAR RUINED VILLA - DAY 
Freezing weather. 
Empty streets. 
Then the sound of recorded music, as a car, with a loudspeaker and a Polish national flag, comes into view, the Polish national anthem blaring out from the speaker. 
INT. LOFT - DAY 
Szpilman, wearing the German Captain's coat and under the eiderdown, hears the strange sound of the music, which he recognises. 
He's astonished, puzzled. He comes to a decision and starts to leave. 
INT./EXT. HALL AND STREET, RUINED VILLA - DAY 
Cautiously, in his German military overcoat, Szpilman trots down the staircase into the empty hall. 
He goes to the front door, opens it a crack and cautiously goes out. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Szpilman looks around, hearing the car loudspeaker indistinctly. 
LOUDSPEAKER VOICE ...German army! Polish soil liberated!  Official! 
His excitement grows and he walks out into the street. 
He sees at one end soldiers serving soup from afield kitchen to a group of people. 
On the opposite side of the street, he sees a man and a woman who have left the field kitchen. The man carries a two-tiered canister. 
Szpilman rushes towards them, grabs hold of the man and tries to kiss him. The man, totally bewildered, tries to fight him off. The woman is terrified. 
THE WOMAN German! German! 
She runs, yelling, towards the field kitchen. So does the man. 
Szpilman stands and stares, then sees one of the soldiers cock his rifle and fire at him. 
Szpilman runs, the firing continuing. 
EXT. RUINS - DAY 
Szpilman bolts into the doorway of a ruined building. He peers out to see Polish soldiers beginning to surround the ruined building, firing shots, lobbing in a grenade or two. 
SZPILMAN (shouting) Stop, for God's sake, I beg you, I'm Polish! 
More shots and another grenade explosion. 
SZPILMAN Don't shoot! I'm Polish! 
The Polish soldiers: Two of the officers stand near the entrance, hearing Szpilman's shouts. 
1ST POLISH OFFICER He's Polish! 
2ND POLISH OFFICER (yelling) Come out with your hands up. 
SZPILMAN (obeying) Don't shoot! I'm Polish! Please, please! I'm Polish! 
1ST POLISH OFFICER Yes, he's Polish! 
2ND POLISH OFFICER (as Szpilman approaches') Why the fucking coat? 
SZPILMAN I'm cold. 
