FADE IN: 
EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY 
A gray, impenetrable wall of fog. From somewhere comes the FAINT SOUND of a LITTLE GIRL'S VOICE, singing, slow tempo, almost under her breath. 
YOUNG ELIZABETH (O.S.) Yo, ho, yo, ho, a pirate's life for me Yo, ho, yo, ho, it's a pirate's life for me... 
Suddenly a massive SHIP emerges from the grey, the Winged Victory maidenhead looming. It's a British dreadnought, the H.M.S. Dauntless. Formidable, frightening, twenty-five gun ports on a side, and rail guns to boot. 
EXT. H.M.S. DAUNTLESS - FORECASTLE - DAY 
ELIZABETH SWANN, strawberry blond hair, stands at the bow railing, gazing at the seas, still singing -- 
ELIZABETH ...drink up me hearties, yo, ho... 
JOSHAMEE GIBBS, who was born old, skin a dark leather, clutches her shoulder, startling her. 
GIBBS (sotto) Quiet, missy! Cursed pirates sail these waters. You want to call 'em down on us? 
Elizabeth stares wide-eyed at him. 
NORRINGTON Mr. Gibbs. 
NORRINGTON, a dashing young man, Royal Navy to the core, glares sternly at Gibbs. Standing besides him is GOVERNOR WEATHERBY SWAN, a man of obvious high station, brass buttons on his thick blue jacket. He is Elizabeth's father. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) That will do. 
GIBBS She was singing about pirates. Bad luck to sing about pirates, with us mired in this unnatural fog-- mark my words. 
NORRINGTON Consider them marked.   On your way. 
GIBBS 'Aye, Captain. (as he moves off) Bad luck to have a woman on board, too. Even a mini'ture one. 
He returns to his deck-swabbing duties, surreptitiously takes a quick swig from flask. 
ELIZABETH I think it would be rather exciting to meet a pirate. 
NORRINGTON Think again, Miss Swan.   Vile and dissolute creatures, the  lot of them. I intend to see to   it that any man who sails under a  pirate flag, or wears a pirates  brand, gets what he deserves: a  short drop and a sudden stop. 
Elizabeth doesn't know what 'a short drop and a sudden stop' means. Gibbs helpfully mimes: a man being hung. 
SWAN Captain Norrington... I appreciate your fervor, but I am concerned about the effect this subject will have on my daughter. 
NORRINGTON My apologies, Governor. 
ELIZABETH Actually, I find it all fascinating. 
SWAN 
And that's what concerns me. Elizabeth, dear... we will be landing in Port Royal very soon, and beginning our new lives. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we comport ourselves as befits our class and station? 
ELIZABETH Yes, father. 
Chastised, she turns away, to look out over the bow rail. 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (to herself) I still think it would be exciting to meet a pirate... 
The fog still hems in the ship; very little of the sea is visible -- 
-- but suddenly, a FIGURE comes into view. A young boy, WILL TURNER, floating on his back in the otherwise empty water. There is nothing to show where he came from, or how he came to be there. 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Look!   A boy! In the water! 
Norrington and Swann spot him -- 
NORRINGTON Man overboard! 
ELIZABETH Boy overboard! 
NORRINGTON Fetch a hook! Haul him out of there! 
Quick movement and activity on the deck. Sailors use a boathook to snag the boy he the passes. Norrington and Swann haul him aboard, and lay him on the deck. Elizabeth sidles in for a closer look. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) He's still breathing. 
SWAN 
Where did he come from? 
GIBBS Mary mother of God ... 
Attention is turned away from the boy -- 
The sea is no longer empty. WRECKAGE from a ship litters the water... along with the bodies of its crew. What is left of the ship's hull BURNS, a ragged British flag hanging limply from the stern. 
The H.M.S. Dauntless slips silently through it all.   The scene calls for hushed voices. 
SWAN What happened here? 
NORRINGTON An explosion in the powder magazine. Merchant vessels run heavily armed. 
GIBBS Lot of good it did them... (off Swan's look) Everyone's thinking it! I'm just saying it! Pirates! 
He opens the boxes, and displays for her a gorgeous velvet dress. She lets out an admiring gasp. 
ELIZABETH 
It's -- beautiful. May I inquire as to the occasion? 
SWANN Is an occasion necessary for a father to dote upon his daughter with gifts? 
Elizabeth happily takes it, disappears behind a screened- off dressing area. Estrella follows, carrying the box. 
SWANN (CONT'D) Although...I did think you could wear it to the ceremony today. 
ELIZABETH (O.S.) Ceremony? 
SWANN Captain Norrington's promotion ceremony. 
Elizabeth peeks around the screen. 
ELIZABETH I knew it. 
SWANN Or, rather, Commodore Norrington...a fine gentleman, don't you think? (no answer) He fancies you, you know. 
Behind the screen, Elizabeth GASPS. 
SWANN (CONT'D) Elizabeth?     How's it coming? 
ON ELIZABETH -- She holds her hair and      the medallion (still around her neck) out of the way as the      maid cinches her into a corset over her slip. Estrella       has her foot in Elizabeth's back as she pulls the laces      tight. 
ELIZABETH Difficult ... to say. 
SWANN (O.S.) I'm told that dress is the very latest fashion in London. 
ELIZABETH (holding her breath) Women in London must have learned to not breath. 
Estrella is finished.   Elizabeth takes a breath -- and winces. 
A butler appears in the doorway of the room. 
BUTLER Governor? A caller is here for you. 
INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - FOYER - DAY 
The caller, dressed in rough clothing, stands in the foyer, looking very out of place, and knowing it. He holds a long presentation case. He polishes the toes of his boots on the back of his calves, but it doesn't help. 
SWANN Ah, Mr. Turner! It's good to see you again! 
The caller turns -- it is WILL TURNER. Handsome, with a watchful demeanor that gives him weight beyond his years. 
WILL Good day, sir. (holds out the case) I have your order. 
Swann hurries to him, opens the case. Inside is a beautiful dress sword and scabbard. Swann takes it out reverently. 
WILL (CONT'D) 
WILL (CONT'D) The blade is folded steel. That's gold filigree laid into the handle. If I may - 
He takes the sword from Swann, and balances it on one finger at the point where the blade meets the guard. 
WILL (CONT'D) 
Perfectly balanced. The tang is nearly the full width of the blade.. 
SWANN Impressive. .. very impressive. Commodore Norrington will be pleased, I'm sure. Do pass my compliments on to your master. 
Will's face falls. Clearly, the work is his, and he is proud of it. With practiced ease, he flips the sword around, catches it by the hilt and returns it to the case. 
WILL (bows slightly) I shall. A craftsman is always pleased to hear his work is appreciated -- 
He stops speaking abruptly, staring past Swann - 
Elizabeth stands on the stairs. Granted, the dress may be painful to wear, but holy smokes! 
SWANN Elizabeth! You look stunning! 
Will tries to speak, but can't. He gives up, smiles to himself, and simply nods emphatically. 
ELIZABETH Will! It's so good to see you! 
Her hand goes to the chain around her throat (the medallion is hidden in the bodice of her dress). 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I dreamt about you last night. Will reacts with surprise: "Really? 
SWANN Elizabeth, this is hardly appropriate - 
ELIZABETH (ignores her father) About the day we met. Do you remember? 
WILL I could never forget it, Miss Swann. 
ELIZABETH Will, how many times must I ask you to call me 'Elizabeth'? 
WILL At least once more, Miss Swann. As always. 
Elizabeth is disappointed and a little hurt by his response. 
MURTOGG Captain Norrington's made it his flagship. He'll use it to hunt down the last dregs of piracy on the Spanish Lake. 
MULLROY Commodore. 
MURTOGG Right. Commodore Norrington. 
JACK That's a fine goal, I'm sure ... But it seems to me a ship like that -- (indicates the Dauntless) -- makes this one here just a wee superfluous. 
MURTOGG Oh, the Dauntless is the power in these waters, true enough -- but there's no ship that can match the Interceptor for speed. 
JACK That so? I've heard of one, supposed to be fast, nigh uncatchable ... the Black Pearl? 
Mullroy scoffs at the name. 
MULLR0Y There's no real ship as can match the Interceptor. 
MURTOGG The Black Pearl is a real ship. 
MULLROY No, it's not. 
MURTOGG Yes it is. I've seen it. 
MULLR0Y You've seen it? 
MURTOGG Yes. 
MULLROY You've seen the Black Pearl? 
MURTOGG Yes. 
MULLR0Y 
You haven't seen it. 
MURTOGG Yes, I have. 
MULLR0Y You've seen a ship with black sails that's crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out? 
MURTOGG ... No . 
MULLROY No. 
MURTOGG But I've seen a ship with black sails. 
MULLR0Y Oh, and no ship that's not crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil hell itself spat him back out could possibly have black sails and therefore couldn't possibly be any ship other than the Black Pearl. Is that what you're saying? 
MURTOGG ... no. 
MULLR0Y (turns back to Jack) Like I said, there's no real ship as can match -- Hey! 
But Jack's not there. Murtogg and Mullroy look around, spot 
Jack standing at the wheel of the Interceptor, casually examining the mechanism. 
MULLROY (CONT'D) You! 
Jack looks over in exaggeratedly innocent surprise. The sailors hurry toward the gangplank. 
MULLROY (CONT'D) Get away from there! You don't have permission to be aboard there! 
Jack spreads his hands in apology. 
JACK I'm sorry. It's just such a pretty boat. Ship. 
The sailors study him suspiciously. 
MURTOGG What's your name? 
JACK Smith. 
MULLR0Y What's your business in Port Royal, 'Mr. Smith' ? 
MURTOGG And no lies! 
JACK None? Very well. You've rumbled me. I confess: I intend to commandeer one of these ships, pick up a crew in Tortuga, and go out on the account, do a little honest pirating. 
MURTOGG I said, no lies. 
MULLR0Y I think he's telling the truth. 
MURTOGG He's not telling the truth. 
MULLROY He may be. 
MURTOGG If he were telling the truth he wouldn't have told us. 
JACK Unless, of course, he knew you wouldn't believe the truth if he told it to you. 
Murtogg and Mullroy consider that point -- 
EXT. FORT CHARLES - DAY 
Elizabeth, pale and perspiring, fans herself weakly, oblivious to the music and chatter. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - OCEAN - DAY 
UNDERWATER: the medallion hangs below Elizabeth's unmoving form - - and then Jack is there. He wraps an arm around her and makes for the surface. 
ON THE SURFACE, Jack swims toward the dock, struggling. It is .: far more difficult than it should be. He stops stroking, and they submerge. 
UNDERWATER: Jack realizes that   it is Elizabeth's heavy velvet dress that is weighing   them down. He pulls at the buttons on the back, and they   give way. He skins her out of the dress, and kicks away from   it. 
The dress falls like a cloud into darkness - 
ON THE SURFACE: Jack swims with Elizabeth, much more quickly. 
AT THE DOCK, Murtogg and Mullroy are there to help haul Elizabeth out of the water. 
Jack climbs up, exhausted. Elizabeth is on her back; Murtogg holds her arms above her head, pumping them. Mullroy puts his cheek to her nose and mouth. 
MULLROY Not breathing. 
Murtogg looks down; it seems hopeless. Jack steps up, drawing Murtogg's knife from its sheath. 
JACK 
Move. 
He pushes past Mullroy, kneels over Elizabeth, raises the knife -- Murtogg is shocked - 
Jack slits the corset down the middle, yanks it away. 
Elizabeth remains still. And then -- she coughs up water and gasps, choking on her first full breath. Jack is relieved. 
MULLROY I never would have thought of that. 
JACK Clearly, you've never been to Singapore. 
Jack flips the knife and hands it hilt-first to Murtogg - and that's when he spots - 
The MEDALLION. Jack catches it up in his "hand. 
JACK (CONT'D) Where did you get this? 
Before Elizabeth can answer, the BLADE of a SWORD is at Jack's THROAT -- Norrington's new ceremonial sword, in fact, looking bright and sharp. 
NORRINGTON On your feet. 
It looks bad -- Jack standing over Elizabeth, most of her clothes gone. He gets to his feet. The rest of Elizabeth's erstwhile rescuers reach the scene, including Swann. 
SWANN Elizabeth! Are you all right? 
He strips off his jacket, drapes it around her. 
ELIZABETH Yes -- yes, I'm fine -- Commodore Norrington, do you intend to kill my rescuer? 
Norrington looks at Jack. Jack nods as best he can with a blade beneath his chin. Norrington sheathes his sword, and extends his hand. 
NORRINGTON I believe thanks are in order. 
Jack takes Norrington's hand gingerly. They shake - 
-- and Norrington tightens his grip, yanks Jack's arm toward him, then tears back the sleeve of Jack's shirt - 
-- exposing a BRAND on Jack's inner wrist: a large 'P.' 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) Had a brush-up with the East India Trading Company, did you ... pirate? 
The others react in shock, but the sailors are well-trained --in an instant, half a dozen pistols are aimed at Jack. He stands there, still holding the corset. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) Keep your guns on him, men. Gillette, fetch some irons. 
Norrington notices something else -- below the 'P' brand is a tattoo: a small bird in flight across water. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) Well, well... Jack Sparrow, isn't it? 
JACK Captain Jack Sparrow. If you please. 
Norrington looks out at the bay. 
NORRINGTON I don't see your ship -- Captain. 
MURTOGG He said he'd come to commandeer one. 
MULLROY (to Murtogg) I told you he was telling the truth. (currying favor) These are his, sir. 
He holds out Jack's pistol and belt. Norrington takes the pistol, examines it, notes the powder horn on Jack's belt. 
NORRINGTON (to Jack) Extra powder, but no additional shot. 
Jack shrugs. Norrington unhooks the compass from the belt, opens it. He frowns at the reading. Moves the compass this way and that, keeping it parallel to the ground. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) It doesn't bear true. 
Jack looks away, a bit embarrassed. Norrington returns the compass to the belt. Draws the sword half from the scabbard. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) I half-expected it to be made of wood. 
Three seedy-looking prisoners try to coax the dog to their cell door. One holds a loop of rope; another waggles a bone. The dog just sits and cocks its head. 
PRISONER Come here, boy... Want a nice, juicy bone? 
In an adjoining cell, Jack lies on a pile of straw. 
JACK You can keep doing that forever, that dog's never going to move. 
PRISONER Excuse us if we ain't resigned ourselves to the gallows just yet. 
EXT. FORT CHARLES - PARAPETS - NIGHT 
A noose hangs from a gallows in the courtyard. Norrington and Swann walk along the far wall. 
SWANN Has my daughter given you an answer yet? 
NORRINGTON No. She hasn't. 
SWANN Well, she had a taxing day... Ghastly weather tonight. 
NORRINGTON Bleak. Very bleak. 
From the distance, there is a BOOM - 
SWANN What was that? 
-- and then the WHISTLE of an incoming ball -- 
NORRINGTON Cannon fire! 
He tackles Swann as the wall of the parapet EXPLODES -- 
INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT 
Jack sits up. There are more BOOMS - 
JACK I know those guns! 
He peers out through the bars of the window. The other prisoners crowd around their window as well. 
JACK (CONT'D) It's the Black Pearl. 
PRISONER (frightened) The Black Pearl? I've heard stories ... she's been preying on ships and settlements for near ten years ... and never leaves any survivors. 
JACK There are a lot of stories about the Black Pearl. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - HARBOR - NIGHT 
The Black Pearl still cannot be seen -- but the fog lights up around her with each boom of her guns. She's firing on both sides now, hammering both the fort and the town. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - TOWN - NIGHT 
Streets, buildings, docks and ships shatter and explode beneath the onslaught. Villagers panic, run for cover, dodge flying debris as best they can. If this is not hell on earth, then it's about to be -- 
-- long boats emerge out of the fog, carrying ARMED PIRATES. They swarm from the boats, striking down ,villagers indiscriminately and setting fires. 
INT. BLACKSMITH'S FORGE - NIGHT 
Will slips the boarding axe into his belt at the small of his back. He puts a dirk in his belt, then a second and a third. He picks up a second axe and a sword. 
Will slides back the doors of the forge -- 
A woman runs past, chased by a ONE-ARMED PIRATE wearing a yellow bandeau. Will backhands the axe square into his chest, a deadly blow. Will heads out, up the street -- 
EXT. FORT CHARLES - PARAPETS - NIGHT 
The moon is obscured by smoke rising from the burning gallows and wooden roofs. Cannon fire continues to rain down, but the fort's own cannons now return fire. 
NORRINGTON Governor! Barricade yourself in my office! (Swann hesitates) That's an order! 
Swann turns to go -- but finds himself face-to-face with a pirate -- KOEHLER, a handsome blond man with gold earrings. Beyond Koehler, more pirates come up over the far wall. Koehler grins and raises a cutlass - 
-- Norrington's sword blocks Koehler's slash. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) They've flanked us! Men! Swords and pistols! 
The battle is joined -- 
INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - ELIZABETH f S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Elizabeth looks out a window at the scene below: even through the fog, multiple fires are visible, and ships burn in the harbor. Shouts and cries of pain. Cannon fire ECHOES. 
She notices movement directly below her window: two SHADOWY FIGURES, approaching the house -- pirates. Elizabeth bolts from her room-- 
INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 
She reaches the railing overlooking the foyer, and cries out, just as the butler opens the door -- too late; there is the BOOM of a gun, and the butler crumples. 
Elizabeth ducks down in horror, peering through the balusters. The pirates scan the foyer, searching. The leader is PINTEL, a sallow-looking pirate with a bald head. 
Suddenly Pintel looks up, and locks eyes with Elizabeth. How could he know she was there? 
PINTEL Up there! 
Elizabeth works the ropes to lower  the box. Pintel pulls the other way; he's stronger, and  the box rises. Elizabeth tries to stop it -- wraps her left  forearm through the rope and lets it jam against the top of  the box. 
Elizabeth gasps at the pain, but the box stops. She saws at the rope with the bread knife. 
Smoldering pirate helps pull the rope, crushing Elizabeth's forearm. Tears of pain on her face, she keeps sawing - 
The rope parts, and the dumbwaiter box PLUMMETS - 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
From behind the door of the dumbwaiter comes a CRASH, and a cloud of dust. The door slides open, and Elizabeth clambers out. Her head is cut, she is streaked with dirt, and can barely stand. She leans over the table, trying to recover. 
The sound of running FOOTSTEPS gets louder ... 
ELIZABETH Please, no ... 
Elizabeth touches the chain of the medallion ... and a desperate idea occurs to her. 
The pirates burst through the door. Elizabeth backs away, holds the bread knife out to ward them off. They come around either side of the table, stalking her - 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (gasps it out) Par. .. Parlay! 
Pintel can't believe his ears. 
PINTEL What? 
ELIZABETH Parlay! I invoke the right of parlay! According to" the Code of the Brethren, set down by the pirates Morgan and Bartholomew, you must take me to your Captain! 
PINTEL I know the code. 
ELIZABETH If an adversary demands parley, you can do them no harm until the parlay is complete. 
PINTEL It would appear, so do you. 
SMOLDERING PIRATE To blazes with the code! 
He steps forward, dirk drawn -- Pintel stops him. 
PINTEL She wants to be taken to the Captain, and she'll go without a fuss. 
He looks to Elizabeth: 'right?' Elizabeth nods. 
PINTEL (CONT'D) We must honor the code. 
Smoldering Pirate concedes the point, sheaths his dirk. He grabs Elizabeth roughly by the arm - 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - STREET - NIGHT 
Will races along, momentarily free of the pirates. He spots the Governor's Mansion in the distance. There are FIGURES moving away from it -- Elizabeth, forced by the two pirates. 
Will hurries forward - 
Suddenly a PIRATE jumps out from the shadows, slashes; Will defends himself. The pirate has one arm and wears a yellow bandana. Will hesitates -- didn't he already kill this guy? 
The hesitation is just enough for another PIRATE, swinging a flaming torch, to SLAM Will in the head from behind. Will crumples. 
The pirate lights a second torch, hands it to One-arm; they hoot with delight and head off, setting fires as they go. 
On the ground, Will doesn't move. 
INT. FORT CHARLES - CELL BLOCK - NIGHT 
The wall of the cells EXPLODES inward. Jack pulls himself out from under rubble. Moonlight spills in through the gaping hole created by the cannon ball. Beyond it: freedom. 
But it is centered on the other cell. The part of Jack's cell that is gone is too small for a man to slip through. 
PRISIONER Praise be! 
He and the other two scramble through. 
PRISONER (CONT'D) (back to Jack) My sympathies, friend - - you've no manner of luck at all! 
The three descend the rocks beyond, disappearing from view. 
Jack is alone. Cannon fire continues, occasional hits shaking the fort. The dog cowers under a long bench, key ring still in his mouth. Jack sighs -- resigned, he picks up the bone from the other cell, and tries coax the dog forward. 
JACK It's all right, doggie ... come here, 
boy. Come here, Spot. Rover. Fido? 
To his surprise, the dog crawls out from under the bench. Jack continues to coax him closer. 
The key ring is nearly within Jack's reach -- suddenly, the dog's attention goes to the door into the cell block. He BRISTLES, GROWLS. He backs away from the door, whining. 
JACK (CONT'D) What's the matter, boy? 
The dog bolts, through the bars, into the cell, then out through the breached wall -- taking the keys with him. 
The door to the cell block bursts open. A pair of pirates step in: KOEHLER and TWIGG. 
TWIGG This isn't the armory. 
He turns to go, but Koehler has spotted Jack. 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I'll drop it! 
BARBOSSA My holds are bursting with swag. That bit of shine matters to me ... Why? 
ELIZABETH Because it's what you're searching for. You've been searching for it for years. I recognize this ship. 
I saw it eight years ago, when we made the crossing from England. 
BARBOSSA (interested) Did you, now? 
Elizabeth glares at him. She's getting nowhere. 
ELIZABETH Fine. I suppose if this is worthless, there's no reason to keep it. 
She flips the medallion up, off her finger - 
BARBOSSA NO! 
She catches it by the chain, smiles at him triumphantly. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) You have a name, missy? 
ELIZABETH Elizabeth - (stops herself from saying "Swann"; then:) Turner. (embroidering) I'm a maid in the governor's household. (curtsies) Barbossa reacts to the name Turner: it confirms what he has suspected. The other pirates surreptitiously exchange glances and nods. 
BARBOSSA You've got sand, for a maid. 
ELIZABETH (curtsies again) Thank you, sir. 
BARBOSSA 
And how does a maid come to own a trinket such as that? A family heirloom, perhaps? 
ELIZABETH Of course. (offended) I didn't steal it, if that's what you mean. 
BARBOSSA No, no, nothing like that. (comes to a decision) Very well. You hand that over, we'll put your town to our rudder and ne'er return. 
ELIZABETH Can I trust you? 
BARBOSSA It's you who invoked the parlay! Believe me, Miss, you'd best hand it over, now... or these be the last friendly words you'll hear! 
Elizabeth hesitates, but she has no choice. She holds out the medallion. He grabs it, clutches it in his fist like hope. 
ELIZABETH Our bargain. . ? 
Barbossa grins devilishly -- but then nods to the Bosun. 
BOSUN Still the guns, and stow 'em! Signal the men, set the flags, and make good to clear port! 
For the first time since the attack began, the BOOMING of the guns ceases. Elizabeth is surprised -- and relieved. The pirates hustle to follow orders. Barbossa turns away. 
ELIZABETH Wait! You must return me to shore! According to the rules of the Order of the Brethren - 
Barbossa wheels on her. 
BARBOSSA First. Your return to shore was not part of our negotiations nor our agreement, and so I 'must' do nothing. Secondly: you must be a pirate for the pirate's code to apply. And you're not. And thirdly... 
the code is more what you'd call guidelines than actual rules. 
(grins gold and silver) 
Welcome aboard the Black Pearl, Miss Turner. 
Elizabeth stares in speechless terror - 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - HARBOR - PRE-DAWN 
As the Black Pearl turns out to sea, Elizabeth is led back along the deck to the captain's cabin. 
The fog starts to dissipate, turning to a light mist; through it, the Black Pearl makes for the scarlet glow of dawn. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - STREET - PRE-DAWN 
Will comes to, still where he fell, gets to his feet. 
He takes in the devastation of Port Royal: the harbor is dotted with burning and sunken ships; buildings are razed and still smolder. The aftermath of hell on earth. 
Will turns, and runs for the Governor's Mansion. 
INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - MORNING 
Will races past the smashed doors, into the foyer. Calls out: 
WILL Miss Swann! Elizabeth! 
A terrible silence answers him. He spots an overturned chair, fallen bookshelf - 
INT. FORT CHARLES - NORRINGTON'S OFFICE - MORNING 
Will bursts in, still armed with sword and boarding axe. 
WILL They've taken her! They've taken Elizabeth! 
A group stares at him: Swann, Norrington, and Gillette among others, gathered around a map. The map is so large it drapes over the Governor's desk, the far end supported by a chair. 
Will heads for the door. Jack searches the desk, cupboards. 
JACK Not without my effects. 
WILL We need to go! 
Jack finds his pistol, sword belt, and compass. Straps on the belt, checks the shot in his pistol. 
WILL (CONT'D) Why are you bothering with that? 
JACK My business, Will. As for your business -one question, or there's no use going. (joins Will at the door) This girl -- what does she mean to you? How far are you willing to go to save her? 
WILL (no hesitation) I'd die for her. 
JACK Good. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - DOCKS - MORNING 
The Jolly Mon, four inches of water in the bottom, squats low in the water, heeled to one side, creaking on its lines. 
JACK (O.S.) Ah, now there's a lovely sight! 
Jack hops down into the boat. Prepares to make way. 
JACK (CONT'D) I knew the Harbormaster wouldn't report her. Honest men are slaves to their conscience, and there's no predicting 'em. But you can always trust a dishonest man to stay that way... 
Jack notices that Will is standing, frozen on the dock, staring at the boat in dismay. 
JACK (CONT'D) Come aboard. 
WILL I haven't set foot off dry land I was twelve, when the ship I was on exploded. (regards the boat) It's been a sound policy. 
JACK No worries there. She's far more likely to rot out from under us. 
Will steels himself, steps into the boat as if its going to capsize with the slightest movement. Jack hoists the sail. 
JACK (CONT'D) Besides, we are about to better our prospects considerably. 
He nods toward the H.M.S. Dauntless, looming in the harbor. Will whiteknuckles the gunwales. 
WILL We're going to steal a ship? That ship? 
JACK Commandeer. We're going to commandeer a ship. Nautical term. 
WILL It's still against the law. 
JACK 
So's breaking a man out of jail. Face it, Will: you may say you'll never be a pirate, but you're off to a rip-roaring start. (smiling) My advice -- smile and enjoy it. 
EXT. PORT ROYAL - MORNING 
The Jolly Mon bobs its way across the bay, dwarfed against the H.M.S. Dauntless. Will holds a stay line with iron fists. 
WILL This is either crazy, or brilliant. 
JACK Remarkable how often those two traits coincide. 
The Jolly Man nears the rudder of the much larger ship - 
EXT. H. M. S. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - MORNING 
There's been a breakdown in discipline; about a dozen Navy sailors are gathered together on the main deck, playing dice. Murtogg and Mullroy among them. 
Suddenly, Jack and Will jump out, into the open - 
brandishing pistols. 
JACK Everybody stay calm. We're taking over the ship! 
WILL (a beat) Aye! Avast! 
Jack gives him a look, shakes his head: don't do that. 
The sailors all look   at them -- and then burst out LAUGHING. They grin,   shake their heads. Jack stands there, grinning with them --   but his gun is still level. The Lieutenant, GILLETTE,   steps forward. 
GILLETTE 
You're serious about this. 
Jack moves his pistol across, points it at Gillette. 
JACK Dead serious. 
GILLETTE You understand this ship cannot be crewed by only two men. You'll never make it out of the bay. 
JACK We'll see about that. 
More guffaws from the crew. A couple sailors move forward, hands on swords -- Gillette holds up a hand. 
GILLETTE Sir, I'll not see any of my men killed or wounded in this foolish enterprise. 
JACK Fine by me. We brought you a nice little boat, so you can all get back to shore, safe and sound. 
But the distance is already too great. One brave sailor tries to swing across on a rope, Errol-Flynn style, but falls short with a splash. 
Jack waves, and shouts across the distance - 
JACK Thank you, Commodore, for getting our ship ready to make way! We'd've had a hard time of it by ourselves! 
Norrington seethes, but his order to Gillette is measured: 
NORRINGTON Raise the sails. 
GILLETTE The wind is quarter from astern ... by the time we're underway, we'll never catch them. 
NORRINGTON We need only to come about, to put them in range of the long nines. 
Gillette looks surprised at the order -- but relays it. 
GILLETTE Hands! Come about! Jackets off the cannons! (to Norrington) We are to fire on our own ship? 
NORRINGTON Better to see it at the bottom of the sea than in the hands of a pirate. 
The STEERSMAN turns the wheel. The Dauntless' course does not change one whit. 
STEERSMAN Captain, there's a problem. 
The Steersman spins the wheel. It goes round and round, with no signs of slowing. 
STEERSMAN (CONT'D) He's disabled the rudder chain, sir. 
NORRINGTON So it would seem. 
The Interceptor dwindles with distance. Gillette watches it go, with some degree of admiration. 
GILLETTE He's got to be the best pirate I've ever seen. 
Norrington reaches out, stops the spinning ship's wheel. 
NORRINGTON So it would seem. 
The Interceptor makes for the horizon line. A SLOW DISSOLVE and with the time passage, the ship is gone; the sky turns a deep twilight blue - 
EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - EVENING 
-- with the fat white moon riding just above the horizon. Suddenly, the edge of a black sail cuts into the foreground, accompanied by the ROAR of the wind and the SNAP of canvas - 
INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - EVENING 
Elizabeth stalks the cabin. Pintel enters, carrying a black silk dress. 
PINTEL You'll be dining with the Captain, and he requests you wear this. 
ELIZABETH Tell the captain that I am disinclined to acquiesce to his request. 
PINTEL (happy) He said you say that! He also said if that be the case, you'll be dining with the crew, and you'll be naked. 
Angry, Elizabeth holds out her hand. Pintel's grin fades. 
PINTEL (CONT'D) (hands it over) Fine. 
He exits, pouting. Elizabeth examines the dress - 
INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - NIGHT 
Barbossa enters, followed by PIRATES carrying trays of food, wine, table setting, etc. Elizabeth stands at the small table in the dress -- lovely. 
BARBOSSA Maid or not, it fits you. 
ELIZABETH 
Dare I ask the fate of its previous owner? 
BARBOSSA Now, none of that. Please dig in. 
The table is set. Elizabeth sits, cuts a tiny piece of meat, eats it daintily. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) No need to stand on ceremony, and no call to impress anyone. You must be hungry. 
Elizabeth drops the pretense: she's starving, and begins to eat like it. Barbossa watches her intently. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) Try the wine. 
Elizabeth does, a huge swig; she tears off a hunk of bread, devours it. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) And the apples -- one of those next. 
She starts to bite into the apple -- stops. She is suddenly aware of Barbossa's gaze -- and that he is not eating. 
ELIZABETH It's poisoned! 
She shoves her plate away -- and takes the opportunity to palm her knife. Barbossa LAUGHS. 
BARBOSSA Oh, there would be no sense in killing you, Miss Turner. 
ELIZABETH Then why aren't you eating? 
GIBBS Say again? 
JACK Ilm going after the Black Pearl. I know where its going to be, and I'm going to take it. 
GIBBS Jack, it's a fool's errand: You've heard the tales they tell about the Pearl. 
JACK Aye, and that's why I know where it's going to be, and that's why I know what Barbossa is up to. All I need is a crew. 
GIBBS (shakes his head) A fool's errand. 
JACK 
Not if the fool has something Barbossa wants. Something he needs. 
GIBBS And you've got that, have you? 
ANGLE ON: Jack, as he smiles enigmatically, and shifts his eyes' -- behind him, Will, still on guard, glares a sailor away from the table. 
JACK Back there, guarding the door is the son of old Bootstrap Bill Turner. 
Gibbs' eyes widen over the edge of the tankard. Peers at Will. Then smiles, with more missing teeth than good ones. 
GIBBS Well, lookee there. I'll allow you may be onto something, Jack. (considers, nods) There's bound to be sailors on this rock crazy as you. I'll find some men. 
Gibbs downs the drink, SLAMS the tankard on the table. 
Will reacts to the sound, draws both sword and dagger, kicks over a table for cover, and whirls on anyone who moves. 
GIBBS (CONT'D) Kid's a bit of a stick, isn't he? 
JACK That he is. 
EXT. TORTUGA - DOCK - LATER - DAY 
On the docks, a disheveled, motley and weatherbeaten group of about a dozen swabs stand in a ragged line-up. 
GIBBS Feast your eyes, Cap'n. All of 'em good sea-faring men, faithful hands before the mast, every one worth his salt -- 
(sotto, making his point) -- and crazy, to boot. 
Jack holds up a hand -- enough. He moves down the line, Gibbs at his side. Then he notices AnaMaria in line, dressed like a man, He raises an eyebrow. 
ANAMARIA You owe me a boat. 
Jack nods, continues. One sailor is quite fat, another thin and sickly. Jack is not happy with his choices. 
He stops in front of COTTON, a short sailor with a large, colorful PARROT on his shoulder. Jack raises an eyebrow. 
GIBBS Cotton here is mute, sir. Poor devil had his tongue cut out -- 
Cotton opens his mouth to show this -- Jack grimaces. 
GIBBS (CONT'D) -- so he went and trained the parrot to do the talking for him, nobody knows how. Nobody knows the parrot's name, neither, so we just call it 'Cotton's parrot.' 
Jack decides to test this. 
JACK Mr. Cotton. Do you have the courage and fortitude to follow orders and stay true, in the face danger, and almost certain death? 
Cotton lifts the parrot off his shoulder, raises it -- 
COTTON'S PARROT Wind in your SAILS! Wind in your SAILS! 
GIBBS Mostly, that seem to mean 'yes.' 
Cotton nods vigorously, lowers the parrot, and it goes silent. Jack shakes his head. Steps back. 
JACK 
That goes for the rest of you! Danger and near certain death. (turns away) For we are to sail for the Isla de Muerta, to rescue the daughter of Governor Swann. An equal share of the reward shall be - 
Jack hears movement, looks back -- several potential crew members back away in fright; first one, then another, turn and run, followed by more. 
Soon just a half dozen are left, including Cotton (with parrot) -- and AnaMaria. 
WILL Shut up, before you lose them all! 
JACK These are the only ones worth having. (glances at the sky) And we're going to need them- 
EXT. H. M. S. INTERCEPTOR - DAY 
A FLASH of lightening and the CRACK of thunder. The canvas of every sail is stretched taut. The ship rocks as it drops into the valley of huge swell, climbs up the other side. 
On board, the new crew members scurry about their tasks, pulling lines and trimming sails. Excellent sailors, it takes everything they have to keep the ship afloat. 
AnaMaria is at the helm. Gibbs staggers along the deck. 
GIBBS That fool will have us lose the canvas, and the masts besides! 
On Jack, a ROARING wind blowing back his hair, eyes intent on their course. Gibbs climbs the tilted deck toward him. 
GIBBS (CONT'D) Werd best drop canvas, sirl 
JACK She can hold a bit longer. 
He starts off. 
WILL Wait -- what about the pistol? 
JACK The pistol. When a pirate is marooned, Will, he's given a pistol with a single shot. No good for hunting, or surviving, really. But after three weeks of starvation and thirst -- the option of that pistol begins to look good. 
Jack lets this sink in. He pulls out the pistol, raises it. 
JACK (CONT'D) But I survived. And I still have that single shot. It's meant for one man. My mutinous first mate - 
WILL 
Barbossa. 
Jack shoots a glance at Will -- nods, and moves away. 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVE ENTRANCE - EVENING 
On Barbossa, face upturned. No expression in his eyes. 
Around him a group of pirates, Elizabeth among them, stand as still as stones, in front of a dark cave opening. Their faces look upward, their total lack of movement disconcerting. 
Above the cave, on a hillock, the pirate Koehler gazes out toward the horizon. Slowly he TRANSFORMS, head-to-toe, from pirate to SKELETON- 
The MOON has climbed free of the storm clouds, rising large. and full on the horizon. The skeleton turns - 
KOEHLER Moonrise, Captain! First night of full. 
BARBOSSA Hah! (to the pirates) Be mindful of pits and crevasses. Stay together. 
He takes a torch. Moves into the cave. The pirates follow. 
INT. ISLA DE MUERTE -     CAVES    - NIGHT 
The group keeps together under the firelight. The path leads between boulders on a slope downhill. From the echoes and shadows, it's clear the cave system must be huge. 
Elizabeth glances over -- the torches illumine caverns off to the side -- and just the edge of a mound of coins. Clearly there is more, but the rest is lost in darkness. 
Twigg, gazing upward in wonder, moves a few feet away from the group. Barbossa grabs him as he nears a chasm. 
BARBOSSA Careful, mate. Fall down there, you'd die and miss Judgement Day -- for not even the Lord himself'll come look for you here. 
Barbossa lets go, and moves on, descending down, twisting and turning, but always down - 
EXT. H.M.S. INTERCEPTOR - NIGHT 
Cotton pulls a sail line, looks out -- sees something. He lifts the parrot off his shoulder, strokes it along the back. 
COTTON'S PARROT Land HO! Land HO! LAND ho! LAND ho! 
Indeed, the faint outline of Isla de Muerta is in the distance on the port side. Will stands, excited, jumps onto the rigging for a better look. 
But AnaMaria, at the helm, stares at Cotton, and the parrot. 
ANAMARIA How does he do that? 
JACK They'll be anchored on the lee side. Haul your wind, and keep to the weather of the island - 
INT. ISLA DE MUERTE - CAVES - NIGHT 
Flickering torchlight. Pirates stoop low to enter a cavern 
-- and revealed is the spectacular treasure of Isla de 
Muerta: overflowing ,chests of coins, gold and silver ingots, jewelry, objects d' art, jade and ivory, brightly colored silks, furniture, jewels and pearls; mirrors and swords -anything and everything of value that might be carried by ship, is here. 
The pirates move through, Elizabeth can't help but gaze in wonder. 
ELIZABETH The curse drove you to gather this? 
BARBOSSA (O.S.) 
Aye. And not a bit of it any use to us, only hoarded. But it will drive us no longer. 
Elizabeth pauses, staring at herself in a jewel-encrusted mirror -- and then is pushed along by the pirates. 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - LAGOON - NIGHT 
The Interceptor lies at anchor in the distance. Closer, Jack and will row away from the larger vessel in a small longboat, toward the rocky shore. 
The RUSH of a waterfall grows louder. Will looks: ahead of them is a black CAVE MOUTH, right at water level. 
WILL What's that? 
JACK Depends. 
WILL On what? 
JACK On whether the stories are    all true. If they are, that's    a waterfall that spills over    at high tide, with a short drop to    an underground lagoon. If not    - 
By now, the moving water tugs on the longboat, and they are sucked in -- 
JACK (CONT'D) -- well, too late. 
BARBOSSA 
If you had sailed with Morgan for ten years like I have, you'd know not to question me! 
Elizabeth sits up, watching the pirates argue, for a moment unnoticed. Suddenly, a scabbard comes down, right above her. 
Startled, Elizabeth looks up -- 
-- Will is at the top of a mound of coins, reaching down with his scabbard for her to grab onto. 
Elizabeth quickly leans forward, takes the bloodied medallion from the pile. Reaches back, grabs the scabbard. Will pulls her up - 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) If any coward here dare challenge me, let him speak! Any more talk, I'll chain ye to a cannon and send ye to the watery depths! 
A sound catches his attention -- coins falling. He looks up, sees Will and Elizabeth at the top of the treasure stack. 
ATOP THE STACK, Will grabs a large shield, flings them forward -- the two ride down the mountain of coins on the far side, slide through a small opening - 
INT. ISLA DE MUERTE - SMALL CAVERN - NIGHT 
Behind them, loose coins from their slide come down in an avalanche, sealing the entrance. 
Elizabeth jumps up, silver platter in hand, ready to swing -Jack catches her before she can do any damage. They recognize each other. 
ELIZABETH You?! 
JACK Me! 
ELIZABETH You're in league with Barbossa! 
JACK No, I'm -- rescuing you. 
Elizabeth can't comprehend that one. 
ELIZABETH You?! 
Will gains his footing in the rubble. 
WILL Miss Swann! We're here to rescue you! (sounds of pursuit, approaching) It's going badly! 
JACK This way! 
They race off, toward a bit of moonlight - 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - NIGHT 
The three climb up a dark crevasse that leads out onto the island. Will takes Elizabeth's hand, helps her. 
WILL I'm glad we got here in time. 
ELIZABETH Truthfully -- you were a bit late. 
JACK The trick isn't getting here, it's getting away. 
As if on cue, they hear the yells of pirates, coming closer. They take off - 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - CLEARING - NIGHT 
The three race through the rocks, the sounds of pursuit close behind. Suddenly Jack stops. 
ELIZABETH Come on! 
JACK 
No. This won't work. (a quick decision) I'll stay behind, and fight them. You go on. 
Will and Elizabeth stare at him. 
WILL No. 
JACK I'll lead them away. 
The sounds are closer. 
JACK (CONT'D) Go to the opposite end of the island, and signal the ship. I'll keep 'em busy. 
WILL Are you sure? Jack -- this is not something you have to do. 
JACK I'm sure. When you've led the kind of life I have, there are debts that must be paid. Maybe I can balance the scales a little. 
Will nods, hesitates... gives Jack his sword - - now Jack has two, ..one for each hand. Elizabeth gives him a quick kiss. 
Will and Elizabeth race away, and are gone. 
Jack watches them for a moment, turns to face the pirates. He sticks the two swords in the ground, crossed. Leans casually against a rock. 
A group of pirates round a corner, cutlasses drawn, ready to fight -- but Jack raises his hand. 
JACK (CONT'D) I invoke the right of parlay, according to the Code of the Brethren, set down by the pirates Morgan and Bartholomew... 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - NIGHT 
Jack stands before Barbossa, surrounded by pirates. Jack has a wide smile on his face -- and Barbossa doesn't like it. 
At full sail, headed out to sea. Gibbs glances at Elizabeth and Will, talking alone on the forecastle -- shakes his head. 
GIBBS Two women on board? A man don't have to be superstitious to know that's trouble. 
Elizabeth holds the medallion, and finishes her tale: 
ELIZABETH ... you were in danger ... so I took the medallion. And I've kept it ever since. They thought I was you, that they needed my blood. And it didn't work. 
She hands him the medallion. 
WILL Why would my father send this to me? 
ELIZABETH To keep it away from them? No pirate would sail to London, for fear of Execution Dock. 
WILL If I had known- 
ELIZABETH (anticipating him) -- then we never would have met. 
Will nods. They hold each other's gaze a moment. Will turns away first, leans on the rail. Looks out to sea, back the direction they came. 
WILL I can't believe he would make such a sacrifice for us. 
ELIZABETH I guess you can never truly know someone else's heart. 
Will glances at her, and nods. 
AT THE HELM, Gibbs peers forward, scanning the horizon. There 
is a tiny island in front of them. 
GIBBS Shift your heading, steer clear of that island. Fifteen degrees starboard. 
On the aft deck, Cotton concentrates on his work, securing a halyard. Suddenly Cotton's parrot flaps its wings, takes off, lands on the starboard bulwark, squawking - 
COTTON'S PARROT Dead men tell NO tales! Dead men tell NO tales! Dead men tell NO tales! 
Cotton looks up - on the horizon, following: black sails. Gibbs and AnaMaria appear, and see the ship. 
ANAMARIA Can we outrun them? 
GIBBS Not a chance. Make for the reef. 
EXT. CARIBBEAN OCEAN - DAY 
Miles of blue water. The Interceptor tacks, leaving a long white wake. The Black Pearl matches it -- gaining. 
EXT. BLACK PEARL - DAY 
Barbossa and Pintel eye the Interceptor, two hounds chasing the fox. 
PINTEL What's he doing? Is he going to run her aground? 
EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY 
The Black Pearl is now close behind the Interceptor -- and the Interceptor is headed for the island. 
GIBBS Drop the forward anchor! 
A SAILOR at the stern of the ship pulls a release, and the 
ship's anchor races down into the water, the metal chain 
jumping and twisting on deck. 
The chain stops, and the Sailor locks it - 
EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY 
With its forward momentum and the anchor down, the Interceptor to turn quickly, pivoting around the anchor. 
EXT. BLACK PEARL - DAY 
Barbossa and Pintel watch as the huge ship brings its cannons to bear right in front of them. 
BARBOSSA All hands! Prepare to come about! 
But for now, the Interceptor has the advantage, and takes it: 
its cannons boom, and cannonballs rain down. 
INT. BLACK PEARL - BRIG - DAY 
Jack sees what he can out the porthole. In the cell with him is Twigg, acting as a guard. 
JACK Don't hit my ship! I mean, kill the lying scoundrel - (to Twigg) I'm a little conflicted, here. 
Twigg just stares. 
EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY 
Elizabeth watches  as the Black Pearl comes about -- and then there is the  low, loud RUMBLE of two dozen cannons firing as one. The  Interceptor is hit. A barrage of shots follow; most find  their mark. 
Sailors dive for cover, leaving their cannons; clearly they are overmatched. 
WILL And Jack. And the crew. Free and unharmed. I f you agree... then... I will remain with you. 
Barbossa considers; his crew waits. Finally - 
BARBOSSA 
Agreed. You have my word, as a gentleman of fortune - 
ELIZABETH Will -- you can't trust him. 
WILL You must swear by the Holy Bible. 
BARBOSSA Eh? You have my word, then -- on the Good Book, I do swear, and the Lord spare my worthless soul. 
Barbossa crosses himself, as do many of his men. 
Will lowers the gun ... steps down -- the pirates surround him. They snatch away the pistol. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) Boatswain! Take your captives belowdecks. Chain them in the galley, and teach 'em how to row. 
Gibbs, AnaMaria, Cotton and the rest are led away under guard. Barbossa looks out to sea, toward the islet. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) Hah. Look there. That's the very same island we made Jack governor of on our last trip. (nods") When you sail the open sea as long as I, you learn to trust the signs fate sends your way. 
GIBBS (dejected) Amen to that... 
BARBOSSA Jack, Elizabeth ... I'm a man of my word and you're to be set free, right quick. (loudly) Men, break out the plank! 
A CHEER goes up from the pirates. Will realizes what Barbossa intends to do, struggles with his captors. 
WILL No! You gave your word! 
BARBOSSA Quiet, boy, or you'll lose your tongue. Those as know me know I wouldn't cross my word, and bring down bad luck on the ship. (nods) I agreed to set them free. I didn't say when. .. nor where. 
EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY 
The Black Pearl lies at anchor, closer now to the islet. 
EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - DAY 
Jack, wrists still bound, stands in the classic 'walking the plank' pose. Elizabeth is next in line. Pirates crowd the ship's rail to watch. 
JACK It's pure evil to make a Captain walk the plank of his own ship, twice in one lifetime. No good can come of it. 
BARBOSSA Now, Jack. That reef is less than a league distant. It's a square deal all around, and you can't hope for better. 
JACK Someone needs to cut these bonds, then. 
Barbossa smiles, shows a pistol. Points it at Jack. 
BARBOSSA You'd best take a swim, Jack. 
JACK The last time you did this, you left me a pistol, with one shot. 
The pirates mutter agreement. 
PINTEL That's proper, sir, according to the code. 
BARBOSSA By the Powers, you're right! ( turns around) Where's Jack's pistol? Who's got it? Bring it forward! 
JACK A gentleman might give us two pistols, seeing as there are two of us, this time. 
A pirate hands Jack's pistol to Barbossa. 
BARBOSSA Tell you what. I'll   give you one pistol, and let you   be the gentleman, an' shoot the lady,   and starve to death yourself! (grins) That is, presuming   you're not both drownded. 
The pirates laugh. Barbossa tosses Jack the pistol -- but over his head, and down into the water with a splash. 
BARBOSSA (CONTID) So how did you get off that island, anyway? 
JACK You can go to your grave not knowing. 
BARBOSSA That's fair. 
Jack glares at Barbossa. Then he's prodded with a cutlass, takes a step out. Reaches the end of the plank -- steps off. 
Jack plunges down into the water. Appears on the surface, floundering, struggles to stay afloat. Will and Elizabeth exchange helpless looks; there is nothing they can do. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) 
The lady's next. But first, I'll be wanting that dress back, if you please. 
Elizabeth hesitates ... then strips it off, leaving her in a silk slip. She throws it at him. 
ELIZABETH Here -- it will go well with your black heart ! 
Barbossa indicates the plank. 
ELIZABETH (CONT' D) I will not walk into the ocean. You'll have to throw me in! 
Barbossa raises an eyebrow, grins, nods. 
BARBOSSA Have at her, lads! 
Try it. It goes down rough, but it goes down - - and the second swig goes down easier. 
Elizabeth considers. Comes to a decision. She unseals the bottle, takes a swig. They sit in silence for a bit. 
ELIZABETH And you will call me Miss Swann. 
Jack toasts her: you got it. Elizabeth studies her bottle... gives Jack a sidelong glance. Back to her bottle 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (under her breath) Drink up me hearties, yo ho... 
JACK What? What was that? (Elizabeth smiles) Something funny, Miss Swann? share. Please, 
ELIZABETH Nothing ... it's nothing. Just ... I'm reminded of a song I learned as a child. A song about pirates. 
JACK I know a lot of songs about pirates, but none I'd teach a child. Let's hear it. 
ELIZABETH Oh, no ... it's silly.   Back in England we didn't know   a thing about pirates, really.   They seemed so romantic and daring   - 
Jack likes the way that sounds. 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (looks at him) That was before I met one, of course. 
JACK 
Now I must hear this song. An authentic pirate song. Have at it. 
ELIZABETH Well, perhaps ... with a bit more to drink, I might ... 
JACK More to drink! 
He gathers two more bottles, tosses one to her. She drops her half-finished bottle to catch it. Opens it, takes a sip. 
JACK (CONT'D) Well? 
Elizabeth clears her throat, begins to sing self- consciously, becoming stronger as she goes on. 
ELIZABETH We pillage, we plunder, we rifle, we loot, Drink up me hearties, yo ho. 
She gestures for him to drink. He does. 
ELIZABETH (CONT'D) We kidnap and ravage and we don't give a hoot, Drink up me hearties, yo ho - 
EXT. ISLET - BEACH - LATER - NIGHT 
The middle of the night. A fire BLAZES. Jack and Elizabeth are roaring drunk, arm in arm, singing the song all the way up to the stars -- 
JACK/ELIZABETH Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate's life for me! 
Yo ho, yo ho, it's a pirates life for me! 
JACK I LOVE this song! (sings) Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate's life for me! We're beggars and blighters, 
ne'er do well cads, Drink up me hearties, yo ho! (gives it a touch of Irish ballad) Aye but we're loved by our mums and our dads. Drink up me hearties, yo ho! 
They hoist their bottles, but only Jack drinks. He drains the bottle, then tosses it away. 
JACK   (CONT'D) When I get the   Black Pearl back, I'm going to teach   it to the whole crew, and we'll sing   it all the time! 
ELIZABETH You'll be positively the most fearsome pirates to sail the Spanish Main. 
Elizabeth salutes the idea with her bottle. Jack doesn't have a bottle to salute back. She hands him hers. He drinks, then settles shakily to the ground. Elizabeth sits beside him. 
JACK Not just the Spanish Main. The whole ocean. .. the whole world. Wherever we want to go, we go. That's what a ship is, you know. Not just a keel and a hull and a deck and sails. That's what a ship need_ ... but what a ship is -- what the Black Pearl really-is ... is freedom. 
Elizabeth lays her head on his shoulder. 
ELIZABETH Jack, it must be so terrible for you, to be trapped here on this island, all over again. 
JACK Ah, well... the company is better than last time. And the scenery has definitely improved. 
ELIZABETH (coy) 
Mr. Sparrow! I'm not sure I've had enough rum to allow that kind of talk. 
JACK We've got a few bottles left ... and we've yet to tap the kegs. 
Elizabeth shrugs with a sleight -- but promising -- smile. She picks up the empty bottle from the ground, holds it up. 
ELIZABETH To freedom. 
JACK To the Black Pearl. 
They tap the bottles together. Elizabeth feigns a drink as he chugs. He taps his bottle against her again. She laughs, feigns another drink - 
EXT. ISLET - BEACH - MORNING 
CLOSE ON -- JACK'S FACE, dead asleep, lying in the sunlight. His nose twitches. A bit of SMOKE drifts by. His nose twitches again. His eyes open. 
Jack GROANS and sits up. He rubs his head, looks over - 
-- all of the foliage in the middle of the island is ON FIRE. Smoke rises high up into the clear blue sky. 
Jack leaps to his feet. He sees Elizabeth, as she pours out the last of the rum, dowsing a scrub brush at the base of a palm tree. It goes up in FLAMES. She rolls the barrel forward -- it starts to BURN merrily. 
They gaze at each other for a moment. Norrington looks away. 
NORRINGTON You may seclude yourself in my cabin. I'm afraid we do not have any ladies' clothing aboard. 
ELIZABETH Then I can wear men's clothing. 
NORRINGTON That would hardly be proper. 
ELIZABETH Well, I am not going to stay hidden in a some cabin, 80 I suppose it's going to be heaving bosoms and bare ankles for the remainder of the voyage! 
Norrington is exasperated, but then can't help but grin - this is exactly why he loves her. She grins back at him - she's not going to change. 
NORRINGTON Murtogg, take our guest below, and find her some trousers, and a shirt. 
Elizabeth smiles, allows herself to be escorted away. Norrington watches her go ... then turns his gaze to the sea. 
INT. THE BLACK PEARL - BRIG - DAY 
Pintel enters the cell. It appears empty -- but that's because Will is hanging from the rafters, trying to shove up the ceiling planks with his legs. 
PINTEL That ain't going to work. That's the gun deck above yea 
Will drops lightly to the deck. Suddenly: 
WILL What happened to William Turner? 
PINTEL Ah, William Turner. Stupid blighter. He threw in with us after we relieved Jack Sparrow of his captaincy, but turned out, it never sat well with him- particularly after we found Cortes' treasure, and its peculiar condition. He thought we deserved to be cursed, for leaving ol' Jack to the fate we did. That's why he sent off a piece of the treasure -- to you, as it were: so it would never be recovered, and so cursed we_ remain. 
WILL And then he ran. And he's hiding out someplace where you haven't been able to find him. 
PINTEL That's a nice thought, to be sure, and I wager your da wishes he'd thought it hisself. But, no. See, what he'd done, _ didn't sit too well with Captain Barbossa ... so he chained a cannon to his legs and dumped him over. 
Will reacts with shock at the account of his father's fate. 
PINTEL (CONT'D) Yep, last I saw of Bootstrap Bill, was his face looking up, as he sank down to the crushing black oblivion of Davy Jones' locker. (sighs) It was only after, we found out we needed his blood to solve the curse. That's what you call ironic. 
Barbossa appears behind Pintel, flanked by several other pirates. He regards Will for a moment, then: 
BARBOSSA Bring him. 
EXT. H. M.. S.. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - EVENING 
Jack goes to the rail and waits, pretending to look out at the sea. Elizabeth, dressed in sailor's clothes to excellent effect, joins him. 
ELIZABETH You didn't tell Commodore Norrington everything. 
JACK Nor did you, I noticed. 
ELIZABETH He might delay the rescue ... and that would be too late. 
JACK Exactly. 
ELIZABETH These men will be facing an enemy that seemingly cannot be killed. 
JACK I have a plan. If it succeeds, then any battle will be decidedly brief ... and one-sided. 
ELIZABETH What's your plan? 
LOOKOUT (O.S.) LAND HO! 
Isla de Muerta lay dark and menacing on the horizon. 
NORRINGTON Elizabeth -- below decks. I will not compromise your safety.. 
She starts to speak; he turns away.. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) Lieutenant, escort Elizabeth to my quarters, and make sure she stays there. 
Norrington gazes through his spyglass, at the island. Jack watches with some amusement as Elizabeth is escorted away. 
NORRINGTON (CONT'D) I don't like the situation, mister Sparrow. The island is riddled with caves. I will not put my men at a disadvantage. 
JACK Funny, I was thinking   along those lines. How about you let me   go in alone, and while you're setting   up an ambush, I'll trick the pirates out   to you. 
NORRINGTON You would do that? 
JACK They left me stranded. Twice. What have you got to lose? 
NORRINGTON (looks at him) Nothing I wouldn't be please to be rid of. 
JACK (smiles) I knew you'd listen to reason! 
EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVE ENTRANCE - EVENING 
Torches are lit. Barbossa leads Will, guarded by Pintel and a band of pirates, into the caves. 
EXT. H.M.S. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - NIGHT 
A long boat is prepared to be lowered over the side. Jack wraps his pistol securely in an oilskin pouch. 
JACK That chart I drew up'11 get you past the reefs. If you're steersman's good enough, that is. 
NORRINGTON I'll be at the wheel myself. 
BARBOSSA What was begun by blood, let blood now end! 
He raises the knife to Will's throat - 
JACK You don't want to be doing that. 
Barbossa pretends to think about his words. 
BARBOSSA No, I really think I do. 
JACK (shrugs) All right then. 
That makes Barbossa pause. He steps out of the moonlight. 
BARBOSSA Why don't I want to do this? 
JACK Because, right about now, the H.M.S. Dauntless is lying in wait in the harbor. 
WILL Jack! 
JACK - - and its guns and crew will cut you and your men to pieces the moment you step outside these caves. 
A buzz of apprehension sweeps through the pirates. 
PINTEL Do you believe him? 
BARBOSSA No. (indicates Will) But him I believe. He is genuinely angry. 
JACK You've no hope of surviving Norrington's attack ... that is, if you're mortal. 
BARBOSSA What're you suggesting? 
Jack shakes off the hands holding him, strolls toward Barbossa, Will, and the chest of coins. 
JACK Simple. Don't kill the boy yet. Wait for a more opportune moment. 
Will glares, listening to every word he says. Jack scoops up a handful of coins from the chest. 
JACK (CONT'D) (drops the coins one-by- one back into the chest) Like after you've killed... Every... Last ... One ... of Norrington's men. 
BARBOSSA I can't help wondering, Jack, why you're being so helpful and all? Last time you did that, it didn't end 80 well for you. 
JACK The situation has changed. 
BARBOSSA That so? 
JACK Aye. See, after you're done with the Royal Navy, you'll have a bit of a problem: the H.M.S. Dauntless. There you'll be, with two lovely ships on your hands, and what to do? Of course you'll decide you deserve the bigger one, and who's to argue? The Dauntless a first-rate ship-of-line, and with it, you can rule the seas. (beat) 
But if you're Captain of the Dauntless, who's left for the Black Pearl? 
Jack smiles and spreads his hands: me. 
JACK (CONT'D) I sail for you as part of your fleet, I give you fifteen percent of my plunder, and you get to introduce yourself at tea parties and brothels as 'Commodore Barbossa.' (sticks out his hand) Do we have an accord? 
Barbossa licks his lips. It's tempting ... 
JACK (CONT'D) Now, you can take care of the Dauntless, right? 
BARBOSSA Men! Are you up for it? 
The pirates yell to the affirmative. 
BARBOSSA (CONT'D) Mr. Pintel, select five men to stay here. Take the rest of the men out ... not through the caves. 
Jack's expression falters; this he hadn't planned for. 
JACK There's ... another exit? 
BARBOSSA Aye, for us there is. 
EXT. LAGOON - UNDERWATER - NIGHT 
Moonlight shines down into the shallow waters, brightening coral, sparkling over the rippled sand floor. 
Suddenly all the fish SCATTER. Briefly, the waters are empty. 
And then FIGURES appear in the distance, seeming to waver in the shifting current. They scuffle forward, kicking up clouds of sand -- 
The figures resolve into the skeleton PIRATES, moving silently across the lagoon floor, swords glinting. The tatters of their clothing drift in the water. Their skull heads are fixed in an endless grin. 
The LEAD PIRATE glides forward - 
And stops next to a huge iron ANCHOR -- twice his' height, even buried halfway into the sand. A heavy CHAIN with barrel-sized links climbs up toward the surface - 
A SHADOW falls across the Lead Pirate -- he TRANSFORMS, and we see that it is Pintel. He looks up - 
Above, the heavy chain leads to the giant bottom hull of the H.M.S. Dauntless, silhouetted by moonlight. 
The huge shift drifts, again spilling moonlight below - 
And the pirates gathered around the anchor are once again SKELETONS, staring with upturned faces. The Pintel-skeleton puts a knife between his teeth, starts to crawl up the iron rings. 
Other pirates crowd forward, and soon the anchor-chain is clustered with skeletons - 
