POINT BREAK 
by 
James Cameron 
Kathryn Bigelow 
From the Screenplay by 
W. Peter Iliff 
FADE IN: 
We are in the belly of a wave. Light refracts in a constant collision of water. SLOW MOTION, the hallucinatory prisms, like liquid diamonds taking flight, dreamlike... 
EXT.  OCEAN - DUSK 
Backlit against a flaming sun a solitary SURFER glides across the green glassy peak.  TIME IS STRETCHED until his movements gain a grace and fluidity not of this world. Total Zen concentration.  Body weight centered, eyes forward and on the next section. 
EXT.  URBAN STREET - DUSK 
SLOW MOTION ON a black sedan. Creeping along store fronts.  Past a Winchell's. PEOPLE splash steps down rain-washed sidewalks in DREAM MOTION.  The sedan turns past the FIRST VIRGINIA BANK and into an alley. 
INT.  BLACK SEDAN 
TWO MEN and ONE WOMAN in SUSPENDED TIME put on overcoats and hats.  Under their hats strips of Scotch tape stretch taut from the base of their nose to their forehead, hideously distorting their features.  Makes them look like human PIGS. 
EXT.  OCEAN 
SILVERY in this light, almost metallic, as if from some future-scape.  The lone surfer SHREDS a long, endless right wall. ACCELERATING INTO REAL TIME -- as he stares into the pit, digs in, drops into the sweet spot on the wave, hunkers down. His moves becoming aggressive, frenzied-- 
INT.  BLACK SEDAN 
An M-16 clip is SMACKED into place and cocked with a CACHACK!  Ammo clips are SNICK-SNICKED into handgun butts and a long clip is SSSNICKED into an UZI. Watches are checked.  The PIG NOSE people nod to each other. 
EXT.  BANK 
Pig Nose #1, steals into position near the glass doors, slams his back to the wall, weapon to cheek, breath fast. 
EXT.  OCEAN 
FAST NOW -- the surfboard rips a brutal gash in the face of the wave.  The surfer TRIMS down the line, pivoting the board and going straight down, CARVING the bottom.  He slashes viciously back toward the lip and-- 
In a radical INVERTED AIR ATTACK sails SIX feet above the wave in an explosion of water-- 
INT.  BANK 
--BAAAAAAMMM! Glass doors explode OPEN and Pig Nose #1 SPINS inside.  He fires a burst into the ceiling.  BRRAAMM!! 
PIG NOSE #1 EVERYBODY on the floor! 
PEOPLE drop. VERY FAST HERE-- Two bandits handle BANK EMPLOYEES and customers-- Another PIG NOSE watches the door-- Pig Nose #1 moves behind counter, Uzi and canvas sack in hand. 
INT.  SURVEILLANCE VAN 
Dark. Monitors SHOW SLOW SCANS of the bank INTERIOR. Two MEN wear headphones and black windbreakers with FBI stenciled on the back.  One watches with binoculars. 
BINOCULARS Bingo.  We're on.  Let's go. Where's the big college quarterback?!  Are you with us, Utah? 
EXT.  BANK WALL 
A MAN in his twenties.  His head spins revealing rain- slicked hair and face, eyes wide, bright.  An edgy handsomeness to him. He pops a stick of Wrigley's in his mouth, rests a shotgun on one leg and leans against the wall.  He wears a headset... through which we hear the FBI guy yelling for him. This is JOHNNY UTAH. 
BINOCULARS (FILTERED) Utah, where the hell are ya!? 
Utah takes his headset off... 
INT.  BANK 
Pig Nose #1 LEAPS over the counter, holds a canvas sack filled with booty from tellers' drawers. 
PIG NOSE #1 Fuckin' shake it! 
Looking down the face of the concrete monolith at Wilshire and Veteran.  Ant-like, Johnny Utah's tiny figure moves toward the entrance. 
VOICE (OVER) Day One in LA, special agent Utah. You may have been top two percent of your class at Quantico but you have exactly zero hours in the field here.  You know nothing... 
INT.  FEDERAL BUILDING - FBI BULLPEN 
Supervising Agent BEN HARP leads Utah across the bullpen. Rows of desks.  Agents sitting at computer terminals. Data hell.  Looks like he got a job at Xerox. 
HARP You know less than nothing.  If you even knew that you knew nothing, at least that would be something, but you don't. 
UTAH Yes, sir. 
Utah is wearing a suit, carrying a briefcase.  Harp is mid-thirties, confident of stride, tanned of skin, perfect of hair.  GQ.  Aggressive. 
HARP Eating solid breakfasts, Utah? 
UTAH Sir? 
HARP All the food groups?  Avoiding sugar?  Caffeine?  I see to it that my people maintain cardiovascular fitness.  We stay off hard liquor, cigarettes... 
UTAH (poker face) I take the skin off chicken. 
Harp glances at him, eyes narrowing.  They reach a glassed-in compound of small offices.  Harp swings the door open and the other agents look up as Utah enters. 
HARP This is us.  Bank Robbery.  And you're in the bank-robbery capital of the world-- 
UTAH 1322 last year in LA county.  Up 26 percent from the year before. 
HARP That's right.  And we nailed over a thousand of them.  We did it by crunching data.  Good crime-scene work, good lab work, good data-base analysis.  Nobody had to tackle a car once.  You getting the signal, special agent? 
UTAH Zero distortion, sir. 
He picks up a donut from someone's desk, a succulent glazed jelly. 
UTAH I love these things. 
He looks right at Harp.  Takes a big fuck-you bite. 
HARP You're a real blue-flame special, aren't you, Utah?  I don't know why they sent you to LA.  Must be an asshole shortage. 
UTAH Not so far. 
CUT TO: 
UNDERWATER 
A blue field with a pulsing network of rippling lines. VOOM!  A figure rockets down INTO FRAME in a curtain of bubbles.  A gawky AGENT, in less than stylish FBI trunks, flails around blindfolded looking for bricks at the bottom of a pool. 
INT.  GYMNASIUM POOL - DAY 
The pool casts wavy distortions upon TWO DOZEN MEN, all grumbling as they stand in line, wearing T-shirts with FBI logos, sweats and sneakers.  We hear a splash, and the men shuffle forward. 
PAPPAS (V.O.) The dolls love this baby.  It brings them luck when they rub it -- right between their buttons. 
CLOSE ON tape measure wrapped around a generous belly. PULL BACK to reveal VETERAN AGENT COREY measuring the ample waist of ANGELO PAPPAS.  This 54 year old silver haired Greek stands rubbing his belly like a Zulu chief. 
COREY Angelo, we need a bigger tape. 
PAPPAS Just read the goddamn number. 
COREY Still a 46.  Maybe we can cinch it down, wear a girdle-- 
PAPPAS Screw you and this holistic fitness crap!  At least my arms don't flap in the wind. 
Corey secretly squeezes his bicep as... A whistle blows.  A broad shouldered MAN wearing an FBI cap barks at the Greek. 
BIG SHOULDERS Okay, Pappas, let's put on the blindfold.  Wanna see you retrieve at least two bricks from the bottom. 
JOHNNY UTAH enters the pool area in the distance.  Says something to one of the agents.  Is pointed toward us as-- Corey ties the blindfold and guides Pappas to the edge of the pool. 
PAPPAS I've been in the field 33 years, fired my piece 23 times in the line of duty, and I got no idea what a blind man fetching bricks has gotta do with being a Special Agent! 
Johnny has walked up.  Pappas, blindfolded, turns directly to Utah as he continues, thinking it's Corey. 
UTAH & PAPPAS are watching a monitor in the glassed-in office.  The robbery REPLAYS on grainy BLACK & WHITE videotape. The bandits barge in, raise shotguns and order everybody to the floor. 
UTAH Good move. 
PAPPAS Yeah, they control the room well. Stick strictly to the cash drawers. 
VIDEO TAPE -- Utah is reverse-scanning.  The bandits walk BACKWARD into the bank.  The explosion of blue ink is sucked back into the pack of money, then leaps back into President Nixon's hand. 
UTAH They don't go for the vault? 
PAPPAS Never go for the vault.  They never get greedy. 
UTAH Smart.  You burn time in the vault. 
PAPPAS Reagan usually drives.  Stolen switch car, they leave it running at the curb, looks parked from a distance.  When they run, they dump the vehicle and vanish.  And I mean vanish. 
Utah stops the video, now FAST-FORWARDING it, stopping where President Nixon separates the exploding "dye pack" planted with the money, before he tosses it aside. 
UTAH Surgical.  Look at them separate the dye packs.  Dick and Ronny know their jobs. 
PAPPAS The Ex-Presidents are the best I've seen, kid. 
Outside the windowed partition POLICE OFFICERS interview frightened customers. Hotshot agents MUNOZ and COLE enter from the main floor of the bank.  Think they're very slick. 
MUNOZ Anytime you two are finished jerking off watching MTV I need to get a look at that tape. 
COLE (sloppy grin) Hey, Pappas, you tell the kid your theory on the Presidents? 
PAPPAS Just take the tape, Cole. 
Now Munoz starts to smile. 
MUNOZ Hang ten, Pappas, like totally rad... (to Utah) I gotta tell ya, the department loves it. 
UTAH What's he talking about, Angelo? 
Harp raps glass.  Cole and Munoz look sharp. Harp enters addressing Pappas and Utah. 
HARP They found the drop car up on Mulholland.  I want you two to go work it. 
PAPPAS What?  Now I'm working the drop car? Who's handling the scene here? 
HARP Cole and Munoz.  I'm uh... letting them run with the ball for a while. 
Cole and Munoz gloat. 
PAPPAS Cole and Munoz?  I been on this case for two years. 
HARP (zeroing in on Pappas) That's the point, isn't it? 
PAPPAS Yeah, I get it.  Time to play let's dick the old guys, huh, Harp? 
HARP Supervising Special Agent, Harp. Now I want you to go work the drop car, okay, Angelo?  Okay? 
The Greek rises like a proud bull. 
PAPPAS Sure.  No problem.  How about your office?  Your office need vacuuming? We could do that too. 
Pappas and Utah move toward the door.  It's a tight squeeze as they pass Cole and Munoz.  Especially Pappas. 
PAPPAS Excuse me. 
Read as fuck you. 
EXT.  MULHOLLAND SCENIC TURNOUT - NIGHT 
The diamond field of LA glitters below.  The small parking area off Mulholland is filled with squad cars.  Red and blue disco. A flock of UNIFORMS milling about a non-descript CHEVY. 
INT.  SEDAN FRONT SEAT 
FLASHLIGHT BEAM prowls the interior, stopping on a small printed card, folded like a pup tent, left upon the bench seat.  It reads "Sanitized For Your Protection." 
PAPPAS Cute huh?  They love to fuck with us. 
UTAH ... Four months.  June to October. Mmmm...same the year before. 
PAPPAS Another month and we don't see 'em again 'til next summer. 
Utah stares at Angelo as it dawns.  Grins suddenly. 
UTAH They're traveling the rest of the year on the money, going where the waves are... 
Pappas starts to smile.  Suddenly, he jumps up onto his desk, gets down in a speed-crouch, arms extended. 
PAPPAS (to one and all) The Ex-Presidents rip off banks to finance their endless summer! 
Johnny watches, grinning.  The night security GUARD walks in.  Utah turns to the guard, shrugs. 
UTAH I think he needs a vacation. 
The guard nods understanding. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SURFSHOP - MALIBU PIER - DAY 
Long stack-up rack of gleaming SURFBOARDS. A HAND reaches in, pulling out a board from the middle of the deck. 
JOHNNY UTAH hefts it.  Sights along it.  Trying to look familiar with alien equipment.  Behind him is a whip-thin 15 YEAR OLD SALESMAN.  Nut-brown with platinum hair, jammed day-glo shorts, sleeveless T-shirt, unlaced Ug- boots. 
Highest performance, very kind.  If you want to get aggro, man, this stick can handle your best rage. Where you surf? 
UTAH I don't. 
Whoa!!  Back up!  This's a 5'6" tri- fin squash-tail thruster.  You'd eat major shit on this, dude. 
ACROSS THE ROOM we see Pappas trying on purple wraparound sunglasses. 
The salespunk pulls down a wide board with a garish firebird paint scheme.  Like a lowrider flame-job.  The logo reads "Dance with the Universe." 
Here, you need a rhino chaser like this one to learn on.  Good board. I mean for a pig board. 
Utah hefts the board.  Scowls.  Hates anything he's not great at. 
PAPPAS sets his purchases on a counter: the glasses, some plutonium-pink shorts, T-shirts, sun-block.  The GIRL behind the counter is sixteen, barely contained in a macrame bikini-top and "Dolphin" shorts.  Angelo picks up a package of Sex Wax from a rack.  Sniffs it. 
PAPPAS (reading the label) "Best for your stick", huh?  This might not be enough.  I better get two. 
The girl stifles a grin.  Thinks he's cute.  At the other end of the counter, 15 is ringing up Utah's board. 
Hey, man, guys your age learning to surf, it's cool, there's nothing wrong with it. 
UTAH I'm twenty-five. 
See that's what I'm saying, it's never too late. 
Utah picks up the board and moves to leave. 
Hope you stay with it.  Surfin's the source.  It'll change your life. Swear to God. 
EXT.  MALIBU PIER - DAY 
Utah and Pappas walking back to the car. Two FBI agents in suits and ties walking with a day-glo orange surfboard.  Surreal image.  The ocean shimmers in B.G. 
PAPPAS Johnny, it's the only way. 
UTAH Why can't I just walk around with this thing under my arm and act stoned?  Ask a few questions. 
Angelo stops at the railing, points toward the ocean. 
PAPPAS Look.  Look at them out there. 
LONG LENS on packs of surfers sitting outside.  Bobbing slowly.  Hunched like sea birds.  Waiting for an unseen sign.  Disappearing and reappearing beyond the break. 
PAPPAS They're like some kind of tribe. Got their own language.  You can't just walk up to these guys.  You've got to get out there.  Learn some moves.  Get into their head.  Pick up the speech. 
UTAH Angelo, this stuff is for little rubber people who don't shave yet. 
IN THE WASHING MACHINE, Utah tumbles in a cold green hell. His chest is convulsing, needing air now. Suddenly a FIGURE lunges down INTO FRAME. A hand snatches a fistful of his hair and yanks him toward-- 
THE SURFACE.  The WOMAN SURFER bursts through the foam. Grabs her board for leverage.  Hauls Utah's head above the water with one strong arm. He is choking, coughing, slapping fatigued arms against the surf, panic registering in his movements. 
WOMAN SURFER (yelling above the roar) Swim, goddammit!  Come on!  Move it! 
The woman gets her board under one of his arms for support and sidekicks fiercely into the wave, holding him in a painful grip. With powerful strokes, she helps Utah make it to calmer water outside the break.  The big waves, just forming up, lift them and drop them as they pass.  Muted thunder when the waves hit the beach.  She drags him half onto her surfboard. Practically slamming his face into the board. He's coughing out saltwater. 
ON THE WOMAN, our first good look at her. She is EXQUISITE.  Hair slicked tight to her high- cheekboned face, she looks sleek and feral, with eyes that burn bright. Especially when she's pissed. 
WOMAN Look crazy son of a bitch!  You wanna commit suicide, you do it someplace else! 
She undoes her leash and swims rapidly off, returning in a few seconds with Johnny's board.  He takes it from her and flops over it, still coughing. Wipes at the salt-snot running out of his nose. There is a cut over his eye from when he re-arranged the rocks on the bottom. 
WOMAN Look at this pig-board piece-a-shit. It's still got the price tag on it, for Chrissakes.  What'd you do, buy it yesterday?  You've got no business out here whatsoever. 
Still gagging and gasping, Johnny manages a goofy grin. 
UTAH Well, I saw you and-- 
WOMAN Yeah, you saw me and you figured that if a mere girl can do it, a big strong stud like you shouldn't have any problem.  Right?!  Well you figured wrong, dork! 
She yanks her board around and strokes powerfully away from him. 
UTAH Hey!  Uh, how do I get back in? 
WOMAN (without turning) Carefully, tough guy.  Very carefully. 
UTAH (yelling now) My name's Johnny Utah! 
WOMAN Who cares! 
UTAH I'm telling you so when you look back on this moment, you can think... there was this guy named Utah and he was pretty much a dork but maybe not such a bad person and I let him drown in conditions he had no business being in whatsoever... when I could have easily helped him. 
Johnny calmly starts paddling toward shore. Thundering white water pounding the rocks ahead of him. He's stoic in the face of certain death. 
UTAH (over his shoulder, gamely) Bye. 
WOMAN Wait!  Jesus Christ! (swimming back to him) You're fucking crazy, you know that? You go in there you're gonna eat it on the rocks.  Here, follow me. 
The woman paddles parallel to the shore and Utah pumps along behind her.  She gets him away from the rocks, then starts watching the incoming swell, timing it to the lull between sets... 
WOMAN Go when I say.  But stay down.  Just lie on the board.  Alright, let's go! 
Utah paddles rapidly, following her, watching what she does. He is borne up by a low glassy wall. He bellyboards all the way into the mushy shorebreak. Tumbles.  Stands unsteadily, grabbing his board.  Runs clumsily out of the retreating foam as another wave comes, sucking water out. On terra firma he looks back to see the woman kick-out gracefully and disappear beyond the wave. 
He flops on the sand.  Shivering.  Miserable. 
EXT.  COAST HIGHWAY - LATER 
LONG LENS... the woman is peeling off her wetsuit next to a BATHTUB PORSCHE that needs a paint job.  Her board is propped in the passenger seat.  Stereo is pumping. 
UTAH WATCHES THROUGH BINOCULARS from 50 yards up the road. 
THE WOMAN, in a bikini, towels off briskly. Swimmer's shoulders.  Long muscular legs.  Lean and mean. She jumps into the car without bothering to open the door. Looks at her watch -- her manner is late, in a hurry. Through the tiny windshield we watch her shimmy and shake as she pulls her bottoms off and struggles into something else, not too concerned about the morning traffic right next to her. She pulls on a T-shirt and them performs a Houdini act to extract the bikini top out of one sleeve hole. 
UTAH WATCHES IMPASSIVELY.  He starts his car and pulls out onto PCH to follow as the bathtub Porsche zooms past. 
EXT.  NEPTUNE'S NET 
Utah cruises up slowly, pulls off the road. Up ahead the Porsche turns into the parking lot of NEPTUNE'S NET, a Coast Highway hangout that serves high- grade steamed sea-critters and beer to low-grade road trash, bikers and surfers. 
Lean-and-Mean, wearing jeans and T-shirt, jumps out of the Porsche.  She hurries to the door of the Net, unlocking it for a couple of Mexican cooks -- helpers wearing expressions like they wait like this for her every day. 
UTAH puts down his binoculars and jots the Porsche's license number down on a Tastee-Freeze bag.  867CDH. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 
Green glow washes the intent faces of Utah and Pappas as MISS DEER data specialist, enters 867 CDH into her computer. She is purebred American Indian, strong featured and beautiful. The screen freezes and the hard disk churns. The DMV rap sheet scrolls down the screen. 
PAPPAS This is your surfer contact? Female.  Blond hair.  Green eyes. 5'6".  119 lbs? 
EXT.  BEACH - DAWN 
UTAH & TYLER walk across the sand. Tyler drops her board. 
TYLER Stop here. (she turns to him) Do you agree to do exactly what I say when I say it? 
UTAH Sure. 
CUT TO: 
UTAH pops INTO FRAME, arms extended, one leg in front of the other, torso bent at the waist: classic surfing stance. Suddenly, he drops OUT OF FRAME. 
WE PULL BACK -- Revealing Utah on his board, on the sand. 
TYLER Do it again. 
Tyler is making him "pop" up to his feet.  Again and again.  GAWKERS stop to watch.  Utah fights humiliation. He pops again.  And again.  Quick cuts. On the next pop we-- 
PULL BACK to reveal Utah on his board, in a wave.  He is surfing. For about three seconds.  He flies off the deck, ass over teakettle. On the SPLASH we start-- 
A SEQUENCE OF TIME CUTS 
Tyler and Utah straddle their boards outside the break. She nods as the set comes, mellow right tubes.  Utah digs in, arms pumping. He feels the bite as the wave picks up his board and starts down the wall. And endos. 
CLOUDY PLATINUM DAWN... Tyler shouting at Utah as he fights for balance. He flies off again. 
BLINDING BRIGHT SUNRISE.  TYLER NEXT TO UTAH in the lineup, straddling boards.  She moves her hands like a fighter pilot explaining a dogfight maneuver.  Utah watches intently. 
Utah, backlit in glorious slow motion, tries a little turn and feels his feet slip out.  He slams down butt-first on the board, flips over, feet sticking straight up out of a blast of diamond spray. Tyler cringes, giving a look like it's hopeless. 
TYLER AND UTAH, at their cars, skinning out of their wetsuits.  Utah looks exhausted, downcast.  She snaps her wet towel at his ass, cheering him up. 
MALIBU PIER.  RAIN.  Tyler jumps out of her Porsche and sees Utah sitting in his car.  She goes to him, opens the door and starts pulling him out.  Come on you pussy. 
UTAH and TYLER wait their turn in the lineup.  Rain pelts their faces.  The waves are depressing inside mushers under a gray sky. Utah starts to paddle.  Tyler shakes her head no.  Utah is committed to the I'face.  Tyler stifles a laugh. 
TYLER (to the other surfers) I'm not with him. 
Johnny gouges the lip, pops and begins the drop. Suddenly, miraculously, he catches an edge and, still standing, is carried along the tiny wall. 
The wall begins to sag.  Utah shoots along the mush hooting and continues hooting madly as he thrashes all the way to shore. He turns and grins foolishly out to sea. Tyler bursts out laughing. 
EXT.  MALIBU PIER - DUSK 
Big surf.  Rough conditions.  Closeout set. UTAH, board in arm, follows Tyler out of the whitewater onto the beach. 
TYLER It's closing out completely.  Let's call it. 
Utah nods.  His eyes track the unruly break. 
UTAH Who's that? 
A LONE SURFER slashing through the pilings of the pier.  A real kamikaze run as the whitewater walls thunder behind him. SILHOUETTED against a crimson sky and backlit spray the figure pumps among the pier pilings in a frenzy of motion that is somehow balletic. Laying out bottom turns, torquing his body and blasting the lip a few times, moving so fast his long dark hair stands straight back as if he were leaning out a car window on the freeway. 
TYLER (V.O.) That's Bodhi.  They call his the Bodhisattva. 
Utah watches as THE BODHISATTVA gets vertical with a snap, trims down the volcanic wall, carves the bottom, pivots, pumps to the top, gouging the lip, getting six feet of air. Gawkers HOWL and shout praise at the manic surfer. 
TYLER The modern savage.  Guy's even crazier than you, Johnny Utah. C'mon. 
They start to walk.  The sky darkens as the sea finally closes out completely.  The Bodhisattva seems to levitate through the shapeless mush to shore. 
ROACH (O.S.) Brah! 
Suddenly a football whistles through the air above Utah's head. He watches as-- The Bodhisattva, board under arm, walking out of the whitewater, makes a one-handed chest catch. 
A few yards away two teams of SURFERS play football. Utah gazes down the beach at the Bodhisattva. Almost 30 years old, his body lean and hard as a tree trunk.  Hardness in the face accented by long Comanche hair. 
BODHI Hey Tyler! 
She whirls.  Bodhi pumps his arm.  Tyler jogs back for the catch.  Bullseye.  She shoots Bodhi a look.  Something crosses her face. Bodhi smiles.  Tyler doesn't.  Then it passes. She chucks the ball to Utah. Who drops his board and makes the catch in one move. He SPINS the football on his fingertip, drops it on his foot, kicks it up into his hands.  Razzle dazzle.  He grins evilly. 
EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT 
Harp inhales through his nose.  A bad sign. 
HARP Where is Pappas? 
Utah points across the room.  Harp turns. PAPPAS, sitting behind his desk in his "Surf This" T-shirt and pink shorts, lifts the purple Vuarnets like Tom Cruise in Risky Business. Looks directly at Harp.  Smiles innocently. 
INT.  HARP'S OFFICE 
Harp paces.  Type-A suppressed rage. Utah and Pappas endure Harp's wrath. 
HARP Special Agent Utah, this is not some job flippin' burgers at the drive-in. Yes, the surfboard bothers me.  Yes, your approach to this case bothers me.  And yes, you bother me.  You two have produced squat in the last two weeks, during which time the Ex- Presidents have robbed two more banks!!  Do you have anything even remotely interesting to tell me? 
UTAH Caught my first tube this morning. 
Pappas signals, unseen by Harp, for Utah to shut the fuck up. 
INT.  CORRIDOR TO COMPUTER ROOM 
Johnny and Angelo walking. 
PAPPAS What, you couldn't have just left the thing in your car? 
UTAH It sticks out, so I can't lock it. Look, Angelo, you think I joined the FBI to learn to surf?  This was your lame-o idea in the first place.  You gotta back me up on this. 
PAPPAS Johnny, all I can say is we better come up with something real soon. 
Johnny cocks an eyebrow and opens the door to the computer room ceremonially, like a doorman at the Ritz-Carlton. Miss Deer looks up as they enter. 
INT.  COMPUTER ROOM 
TIGHT ON CRT as a lab report scrolls up the screen.  Gas chromatography and spectroanalysis.  Columns of elements and compounds, listed as percentage-of-sample. 
MISS DEER (V.O.) Encino Savings & Loan guard grabbed LBJ's ponytail.  We recovered one hair. 
WIDER, showing Utah and Pappas over her shoulder at the terminal. 
PAPPAS Yeah, yeah, I remember, last year. Guy got his jaw broken for it. 
MISS DEER One four centimeter strand.  Color brown.  Oily.  Slight wave. 
PAPPAS Hell, what're we waiting for, let's go pick the guy up. 
UTAH Angelo, pay attention.  There's gonna be a test afterward.  Lab is showing traces of toxins.  PCBs. Heavy elements... selenium, titanium and arsenic. 
PAPPAS Guy's the Toxic Avenger. 
Utah is excited as he fits the pieces together for his partner. 
UTAH The beaches are always being closed because of waste spills, right?  And surfers are territorial.  They stick mostly to certain breaks.  If we can get some hair samples, and get a match to a certain beach, we'd know which break the Ex-Presidents surf. You buyin' this? 
PAPPAS No.  But let's do it, anyway.  It's gonna bug the shit out of Harp. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  LATIGO - DAY 
Department of Health sign reads, "Beach Temporarily Closed." Beyond it crashes a wasted northwest swell. 
Two frustrated teenage SURFERS huddle underneath a towel. Marijuana smoke seeps upward. A sandaled FOOT enters frame and taps their leg.  Angry heads poke up from beneath the towel, nostrils and mouths billowing smoke. The two wear T-shirts which read "Passion for Slashin" and "Psycho Stick". PAPPAS smiles, standing there in his beach wear, trying to blend in.  He doesn't. 
PAPPAS When you two are done makin' out, I need to talk to you. 
"PSYCHO-STICK" T-SHIRT Hey, I ain't no butt-bouncer, dude. We're from the valley.  Mall babes 'n shit. 
The kids proudly high-five. 
PAPPAS I just want to know if you surf here a lot. 
"PASSION FOR SLASHIN'" T-SHIRT Shit yeah, like totally everyday when it's jammin'.  What is this, fucking narco entrapment or what, dude? 
Pappas flashes his FBI star.  He whips out a pair of scissors. Brandishes them like some over-the-hill "Jason". 
PAPPAS Not exactly, dudes. 
TONE Waste of time. 
WARCHILD We're just going to fuck you up. 
UTAH Oh. 
As they lunge, Utah grabs his board and swings it in a whistling roundhouse.  Its edge slams Warchild in the gut and folds him double.  The bad news is... Warchild gets an arm around it and brings a pile-driver hammer-punch down. The board splits into two pieces. Utah drops his end as the others close.  A flurry of punches and kicks, most of which he blocks.  But he's lost the offensive. Bunker takes him to his knees with a vicious karate-style side-kick. 
TIGHT ON Utah's towel, talking with Pappas' voice. 
PAPPAS Johnny?  You there? 
ANGELO gets out of the car fast.  He jogs twenty feet and raises the binoculars.  Catches a glimpse of the carnage around the edge of the building.  Breaks into a run, massive legs pistoning. 
JOHNNY HITS THE GROUND hard.  He rolls and comes up fast. The razorhead brothers are a little surprised. 
ARCHBOLD The dude can fight! 
Warchild grabs Utah from behind.  Gets him in a headlock. Archbold and Tone pin his arms.  Bunker starts working him like a practice bag.  At this moment, Johnny is getting the proverbial shit beat out of him. SUDDENLY, a new figure blurs INTO FRAME. 
BODHI seizes Bunker and flings him aside.  He spins with remarkable agility and drives his heel into Warchild's face. Utah breaks free, staggering back on the sand.  The fight is still there in his eyes. 
Bodhi is at his side -- holding the others at bay with a raised hand and an evil look. 
BODHI Back off!  Now!!  Just let it go! 
BUNKER Stay outta this, Bodhi! 
BODHI He's with me.  Now back off. Seriously.Just do it! (they relax slightly) You alright Warchild? 
WARCHILD (holding his bleeding nose) Fuck you. 
Everybody has backed off a bit, panting. Utah steps toward Bunker.  Like he's maybe going to shake hands. 
UTAH What's your name? 
BUNKER Bunker. 
UTAH Well, listen, Bunker... I'm actually kinda glad you found me. 
BUNKER Yeah?  Why? 
Johnny answers with a LIGHTNING ROUNDHOUSE that hits with a CRACK!  They can hear it in Pomona. BUNKER HITS THE GROUND.  Flat out.  Lights out. Tone, Archbold and Warchild lunge like dogs. Bodhi yanks Utah out of the line of fire. 
BODHI Whoa!  Whoa!  Hold it, ladies.  Give it a rest. (to Utah) Let's go. 
He literally turns Utah around. They begin to walk, stepping over the pieces of Johnny's board. 
BODHI (under his breath) Do me a favor, Johnny, just keep walking. 
Tone starts to go after them.  Archbold grabs his arm. They help Bunker up.  Warchild holds he bleeding nose. Utah and Bodhi start up the stairs, turn a corner and run HEAD-ON into a huffing PAPPAS. The big man clocks a battered but intact Utah. We see him shift gears in his head in 2 tenths of a second. 
PAPPAS (out of breath) Uh, you guys seen a kid, maybe 10, 12, running with a car stereo? Stole the fucking CD too, you believe it? 
Utah is grateful for the cover. 
UTAH No, but there are four guys back there you might check out. 
PAPPAS Thanks, buddy. 
He shoves on. 
EXT.  PARKING LOT 
Bodhi and Utah weave among the cars and motorcycles, beach-types coming and going. 
UTAH Friends of yours, huh? 
BODHI The one you decked is Bunker Wiess. The big one is his brother, Warchild.  The other two always hang.  They think they're some kinda death squad around here. 
UTAH What's their program? 
BODHI They're punks.  Nazis.  Their brains are wired wrong.  They hurt surfing because they give nothing back, and they have no respect for the sea. They just want to get radical.  It's mindless aggression.  They'll never get it, the spiritual side of it. 
Pappas pulls away from the curb, roaring past the other agents sedan.  Utah and Cole flip each other off perfunctorily as they pass. 
UTAH When did Harp say they'd have the warrant? 
PAPPAS He's pushing it through first thing. You better get some sleep tonight, it could be an interesting morning. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  BODHI'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
A bunker-like structure built of stone and glass on a cliff overlooking the Pacific.  Surfmobiles and motorcycles parked in front.  A strong backbeat thumps through the open front doors. Tyler's Porsche pulls into the driveway.  She and Johnny get out and head for the entrance. 
UTAH Nice place. 
TYLER He rents it for the summer.  Bodhi always gets some slick place and throws it open to every surf burnout around.  Most a these guys can't keep a job.  When the swell comes, they're gone, they have to ride. 
INT./ EXT.  BODHI'S HOUSE 
Tyler leads Utah through the steady flow of SURF-RATS and other PCH NOMADS toward a large outdoor deck where a barbecue is in progress.  Moonlit waves pound the shore eighty feet below. 
They are immediately distracted by the small crowd gathering around GROMMET who has his nose pressed flat against the center of a dart board. His eyes swivels back to ROACH, standing fifteen feet away, dart in hand, getting ready to throw. 
GROMMET Do your worst, man! 
Roach drains a beer in one gulp, spies the sharp needle point of the dart, then squints at the target. ROSIE moves through the small crowd collecting bets. 
Suddenly Roaches arm snaps back.  A collective hush... In a blur of tattoos the small feathered missile is airborne. 
TWAAAPPPPPP!  Bulls-eye.  Centimeters from flesh.  Grommet secretly exhales.  Roach howls as Rosie rains money on his head. The crowd goes wild. BODHI stands nearby with his arm around a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN. Pleased to see Utah, he motions him over. 
UTAH Don't you gamble? 
BODHI Only make bets I can't afford to lose.  Only way to be 100% committed. 
With that, Bodhi smiles, then he and the woman vanish into the crowd.  Utah watches them go, turns to Tyler. 
UTAH Who's the girl? 
TYLER Catch of the day. 
UTAH Oh, oh.  That sounds personal. 
TYLER People are expendable to Bodhi. 
UTAH Meaning you were expendable. 
TYLER (shrugs) We went out for about five minutes... which is four minutes longer than most of them.  But you can't hold it against him, he's... different. 
UTAH Sure, he's "the Bodhisattva". 
TYLER (she chuckles) Yeah, he thinks he's evolved to a higher plane of existence, or something. (thoughtful) Maybe he has.  You've seen him surf... that frenzy.  It seems like anger.  It's not.  It's the energy of lovemaking.  The sea is the woman in his life.  She's his only true lover. 
Utah studies her a moment.  He's caught the faintest hint of regret in her voice.  But also the straight-ahead pragmatism.  He looks down at the waves pounding mercilessly against the rocks. 
UTAH All she does is beat the shit out of me. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
PARTY - LATER 
Lingering surf-rats stoned and drunk. Nathaniel stands on the railing of the deck, Corona in hand, gazing out at the black water.  He grins sloppily, body wavering dangerously as he hunkers down into a surfing stance. 
NATHANIEL (beer soaked speech) ... Okay, so you're in the face, it's twenty-five feet straight down, your balls are about this big. (like he's holding up two BB's) And the whole thing's moving, right, roaring like you're stuck to the front of a freight train.  There ain't nothin' like it, man.  The ultimate rush.  Forget about sex, it doesn't even come close. 
ROACH You lose it right then, you're history.  The fish'll be pickin' you outta the coral. 
Nathaniel cackles that absurd Pee-Wee Herman laugh.  He starts to flail, arms pinwheeling. Utah catches him by the back of the shorts and pulls him back.  Nathaniel spins and drops clumsily onto the deck. 
NATHANIEL (matter of factly) Thanks, brah. 
Tyler sits next to Johnny, sipping a beer.  Bodhi is not in sight. 
ROACH See, it's all dynamic, it's all in motion.  You can't just stop and walk on in to the beach if you don't like the way things are going, y' know what I mean?  You gotta ride it out man, all the way. 
ROACH (a voice in the distance) Gaping barrels!  Way overhead, man! 
CLOSER, as moonlit figures run into the water. Utah stands on the beach, hoping his eyes will adjust. 
UTAH I can barely do this in broad daylight. 
TYLER Come on.  At least no one's gonna see how bad you are. 
Johnny clenches his jaw and charges past her into the water. He strokes powerfully out through the black swell. 
UTAH'S EBONY BOARD pierces the wave and he slides down the backside to where the others are waiting.  Roach and Nathaniel, silhouettes nearby, see one they like and take off yelling. Johnny turns as a figure glides up next to him. 
UTAH I gotta be fucking crazy. 
BODHI Yeah, but are you crazy enough? 
Grommet gets a ride, slicing across in front of them. A ghost moving off into the silvery distance. Tyler waves jauntily and takes the next one.  It's Johnny's turn. 
BODHI Football's a man-made game.  You keep score with numbers.  But in this, there's no field, no rules, no opponent.  Just you and the wave. 
UTAH I know that part.  Tell me something I can use, here. 
BODHI I've watched you once or twice.  You surf like it's some kind of street fight.  You jerk along from moment to moment, fighting everything that comes at you.  Always trying to win. 
UTAH A flaw I'm working on. 
BODHI The only way to win out here is to surrender.  You have to feel what the wave is doing, accept its energy, get in sync.  Just feel it all moving in the blackness... you don't need to see. 
UTAH Yeah, right, vision is highly over- rated. 
Bodhi is looking at the lights along the shoreline. Without looking back, he senses the incoming swell. 
BODHI This one's got your name on it, Johnny. 
Utah looks.  Huge glassy face, perfectly formed.  Black and terrifying. 
BODHI Let's go. 
Bodhi digs in with both hands, driving himself forward. Johnny starts grabbing water right behind him.  The wave picks them up. 
UTAH Shit, I'm gonna die.  I'm gonna die now. 
Johnny uses the patented Tyler-pop and makes it to his feet.  Suddenly he's going like a shot. He moves back on the board, trims out, slowing down. Maintains a fragile control. On pure adrenalized instinct, heart pounding, he falls in behind Bodhi, taking the same line along the roaring black face. 
Bodhi is like the Silver Surfer, ahead of him in the moonlight. Not wanting to drop too far behind, Johnny walks a little forward on the board.  The nose dips, picking up speed. 
Johnny starts letting the speed work for him, learning that he can make long floating turns up and down the glassy face. 
Feeling the water under his feet, the tons of water piling up behind him... feeling its awesome power and borrowing a little of it. 
The Silver Surfer and the quarterback rocket through the night. Utah has a big feral grin plastered on his face. Bodhi looks back.  Gives him a thumbs up. Then he cuts left and drops giddily down to the bottom, slashing back and climbing. Utah tries it, feels the drop like freefall... feels the speed. He makes his bottom turn, nearly falling. The grin dropping off his face. 
He falls in behind Bodhi again as the wave wraps over them like a great black wing. 
TYLER, paddling back out, watches them shoot past her. Utah raises his arms above his head and HOWLS like a gonzo wolf as they go by. She grins to herself, watching him. Knows he's gotten the ride that will make him a surfer for life. 
EXT.  BEACH PARKING LOT 
Rosie sits on the sand next to a blazing fire in a cement firepit. 
ANGLE THROUGH THE HEAT HAZE above the flames.  Tyler punches through, a few feet away.  She paddles toward him, coming alongside. 
TYLER You had enough? 
UTAH Yeah.  I just want to sit out here for a minute. 
He watches the lights along the shoreline as the gentle swell between sets lifts and drops them.  His face is somehow childlike. A slow grin spreads itself across his face. 
TYLER Look at you. 
UTAH What? 
TYLER Well, usually you have this sort of intense scowl of concentration, like you're doing this for a school project or something... I don't know, like something's driving you. (she puts her fingertip to  his forehead) See, it's gone.  If I didn't know better I'd say you looked almost happy. 
Utah stares at the dope. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  POLICE HQ - OUTSIDE INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 
TIGHT ON WARCHILD manacled to the chair screaming his head off.  We cannot hear him through the glass.  It looks like pantomime. 
UTAH and PAPPAS watch through the one way observation window. THWAAAAAP!!  The two taped packets slam the wall inches from Utah's right ear.  Johnny snaps his head around. Stares into the face of DIETZ who looks like Warchild's meaner brother. And he's pissed as hell... 
DIETZ You know what this is?!  Two keys uncut crystal meth! 
UTAH What the hell's your problem? 
Dietz manically grabs a clump of his stringy hair. 
DIETZ You think I like this haircut?  My wife wants me to stay at Ramada -- I been working on these guys for THREE MONTHS!  Finally -- finally-- (nodding to Warchild) -- I get dickwad in there wantin' to play wheel of fortune so I can find out their supplier! 
HARP emerges from the interrogation room, we hear a sliver of Warchild's battle cry.  He spies Utah. 
HARP This is agent Dietz, DEA.  He's got a record of your suspect's movements every day for the last three months. 
DIETZ (stabbing the air with the packets) All I wanna know is how are these guys supposed to be holding up Tarzana City National on August 2nd, when they are in Fort-fucking- Lauderdale August 2ND!!! 
HARP Not an easy thing to do, is it, Utah? 
UTAH Aw shit. 
PAPPAS Nice tattoo, Dietz. 
We hear a faint BUZZ, growing louder as we... 
CUT TO: 
INT.  BEDROOM - UTAH'S APARTMENT - DAWN 
The doorbell BUZZ shrieks through the room.  It stops. Starts again.  A ghostly dawn finds UTAH and TYLER sleeping peacefully, limbs entwined like vines. Johnny's eyes snap open.  Spies the clock.  4:00 a.m. Tyler stirs beside him, coming out of sleep. Johnny wraps a blanket around his waist and staggers to the door. 
BODHI stands outside the door wearing a lunatic grin. Behind him NATHANIEL, ROACH and GROMMET hoot from the pickup. 
BODHI C'mon brah, there's a righteous swell.  Let's go!  Let's go! 
Tyler comes into the room, wrapped in a sheet. Utah sees her knowing smile. 
TYLER He does this. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  BEACH - PREDAWN 
Vampire morning.  A misty predawn, bled of all color. Steel gray tones.  The ocean vanishes in the fog a few feet from shore. Tyler and Johnny, carrying their boards, walk toward the water. 
TYLER Come on, Utah.  Everybody's out there catchin' all the good rides. 
She realizes he has stopped ten feet behind her, like a great weight has dragged him to a halt. 
TYLER What's wrong Johnny? (goes back to him) You're like a different person. 
He stares at her.  His expression dark... wrestling with something. 
UTAH I am a different person, Tyler. 
He lets out a long breath and looks away, out to sea. 
JOHNNY'S POV... the water receding into a backlit wall of mist. FIGURES APPEAR, faint silhouettes in the fog. Shades of gray in the gray. IN SLOW MOTION they weave hypnotically across the screen, their shapes merging and unmerging as they cross each other. 
STACKED UP BY THE EXTREME LONG LENS, Bodhi, Roach, Grommet and Nathaniel crave and slash toward us with mystical grace. 
In SUSPENDED TIME we see them hooting and grinning at each other as they cut aggressive moves close to each other. Dolphins playing. Challenging each other in mock combat. So good, their boards slash past each other with inches to spare. There is an incredible sense of freedom and exhilaration. Bonding forged through mastery of this arcane art. For the first time we see the core group of Bodhi's tribe, by themselves.  It dawns on us... There are four of them. And at that moment Nathaniel drops in front of Bodhi, laughing at the near miss, and drops his pants in a nasty wig-wagging moon. 
TRACKING SLOWLY IN ON JOHNNY staring, mouth open. Watching the four horsemen of the Apocalypse ride toward him. 
IN SLOW MOTION, BODHI grins as he slashes past Nathaniel's shining white butt. 
He presses his lips to the smooth curve of her forehead. A kiss to each downcast eye.  Searching out her mouth with his own as his hands glide down the small of her back. Their reflection in the mirror as Utah slowly lowers Tyler to the bathroom floor.  She clings tightly in a breathless kiss. 
EXT.  CLIFF - NIGHT 
A Buddha in the moonlight, BODHI sits crosslegged upon the cliff, staring at the ocean. CAMERA CIRCLES AROUND HIM, focusing in upon his eyes. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT 
UTAH asleep, flopped in a spread-eagled X. WE HEAR the bedroom door opening, see a slash of light fall across the bed. Johnny doesn't stir. A shadow appears on the wall, moving toward him. An outstretched arm holding a gun. Utah snores softly, sleeping like a baby. CAMERA TRACKS IN on his peaceful face. A single eyelid flutters.  Total silence, until... 
KABOOOOMMM!  The Pillow beside him EXPLODES into a blizzard of goosedown.  Johnny rears up, eyes wide, mouth agape. TYLER stands above him, recovering from the kick of the smoking 9mm Beretta in her hand. 
TYLER A lawyer!?  You lied to me! 
She throws his FBI gold star at his face. 
TYLER Look, Tyler, I can-- 
BOOM!  Tyler SQUEEZES off another round. Cascading goosefeathers falling like snow. Utah flinches sideways. 
TYLER Jesus Christ, Johnny -- you've been using me!  Your jacket's on the floor in the bathroom -- this goddamn thing's half out of the pocket... Oh God, it's all part of some case, isn't it? 
UTAH Tyler, put the gun down. 
TYLER You tell me the fucking truth Johnny... did your parents really die in a car crash?  DID THEY?! 
She waves the Beretta in his face. 
UTAH No.  They live in Columbus Ohio. 
Tyler lowers the pistol slowly, the strength leaving her. Her face begins to flood with tears. 
UTAH I work bank robbery.  Guys I'm after are surfers.  I needed you, at first, but not-- 
TYLER Fuck you, Johnny Utah.  Fuck you!! Don't you have a soul?  Goddamn you to hell! 
She goes limp as the sobs rack her body.  The gun flops from her grip. Utah sweeps it under the bed with his foot. He moves to gently comfort her. She bolts at his touch, running from the bedroom. Utah is up and hopping into his pants to follow her.  He stumbles. 
UTAH Tyler!  Wait!! 
From the living room we hear a rattling of keys, the front door opens and slams shut.  He hobbles to the door, favoring his knee.  Opens it.  We hear the Porsche screeching away. Utah sags, the breath coming out of him long and slow. 
CUT TO: 
UTAH on the bed staring up at the ceiling.  Phone cradled, listening to-- 
TYLER (V.O.) Hi, it's me.  Leave a message. 
BEEP!  He rests the telephone on his chest, letting the tape roll a moment before he speaks. 
UTAH Tyler I... look, I fucked up, okay. I know I fucked up.  I wanted to tell you, but I couldn't -- I was afraid you'd leave... good guess, huh? (grimacing) Fuck, why can't I ever say what I really mean?  I lied to you.  I'm an asshole... but I need you, Tyler.  I want you to know that I've never known anyone like you before in my life... and I... I hope you change your mind... 
He cradles the receiver, looks out the window.  Black of night.  Dead still. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
UTAH asleep, telephone still perched on his bare chest. 
BUZZZZZZ!  The rasp of the doorbell. Johnny is airborne, phone flying across the floor. Hunting for his pants, realizes they are already on, limps in fast motion to the door. 
UTAH Tyler!  Wait, I-- 
Whips it open. BODHI standing in the doorway, smiling like an excited child. 
BODHI Howdy brah. 
NATHANIEL, ROACH, and GROMMET are there behind him. They look like sentry dogs.  Johnny freezes. Bodhi walks past Utah, into the room. 
BODHI C'mon, get your gear on, we're rollin'. 
Cheerful, hardly able to contain his exuberance. He moves through the room, grabbing Johnny's shirt from a chair, a pair of sneakers on the floor. Utah sees his FBI shield sitting on the dresser in plain sight. He palms it when Bodhi is turned away, and slips it into his hip pocket to conceal it. 
Utah's gaze travels beyond the windshield. Where tentacles of brand new morning light vein the sky. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  DESERT AIRSTRIP 
TIGHT ON A turbo-prop engine ROARING. 
WIDER reveals a big Cessna twin.  The PILOT, a weaselly guy we haven't seen before, fires up the second engine. The plane shudders eagerly in the metallic predawn light. A desert airstrip near Palmdale.  A couple of aluminum- siding hangers and no tower.  A few other planes around but no activity besides Bodhi's rock-steady crew. 
UTAH watches Grommet whip back a tarp in the bed of Bodhi's truck and starts tossing out PARACHUTE PACKS. Roach tosses one to Bodhi, who chucks it to Utah. 
BODHI Ever done this before? 
UTAH Once. 
BODHI Pure adrenalin, right?!  The ultimate rush.  Other guys snort for it, jab a vein for it -- all you gotta do is jump. 
UTAH Sure, it's a blast, but listen, I sorta screwed up my knee yesterday-- 
BODHI Yeah, I noticed you limping. (grins) But don't worry about it, brah. Don't worry at all.  We're not gonna land on land! 
Bodhi grabs his sleeve, ushering him into the plane. 
UTAH Oh, well, that's fine then.  I feel so much better. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CESSNA 
Utah sits, wearing a day-glo jump suit, hugging the chute in his lap.  Next to him is the gaping door.  Beyond... a spectacular down sunburst at 10,000 feet.  ROAR of wind and engines. 
Utah watches Bodhi, Nathaniel, Grommet and Roach wriggling into their colorful freefall suits.  Nathaniel pulls on a pair of purple shorts over his suit.  Looks real dorky. Grommet has on duck feet.  Bodhi, apparently, is going to jump barefoot. Nobody has their chutes on yet. Johnny hefts his, as if weighing it, somehow judging the contents.  His brain is racing.  Bodhi shouts over the roar. 
BODHI It's a little ceremony we always have at the end of summer.  One last speedstar. 
UTAH So, who... uh, who packed my chute? 
BODHI I did.  What's the matter?  Don't trust me? 
UTAH You gotta earn trust. 
BODHI Then we'll earn it together.  Here, take mine. 
Bodhi swaps chutes with Johnny. Utah looks at the new chute uncertainly. Is this a game?  Poker moves? Did Bodhi anticipate this step? 
ROACH Hey... you don't want Bodhi's, man. His pack-jobs suck... they only open half the time.  Take Grommet's, man. 
Roach's grin is evil as he grabs Grommet's chute out of his hands and switches it with Johnny's.  Keeps that one and gives his to Grommet. 
GROMMET Whoa, unfair, dude! 
Grommet grabs his chute back and hands Johnny the one he had, which was Roach's.  I think. Johnny looks at the pack in his hands.  Then at the grinning faces. Russian surfer freefall roulette.  Shit. Bodhi studying him.  Some kind of test. Fuck it.  Utah starts putting the damn thing on. 
UTAH We gonna jump or jerk off? 
BODHI My man! 
EXT.  10,000 FEET - DAWN 
Multi-colored figures explode from the plane.  Leaping into freefall.  Tumbling end over end. WEARING HEADSETS, they hurtle downward. 
BODHI (RADIO) Utah, you copy bruddah? 
UTAH (RADIO) Whoooaaah!  Shhiiittt!  Whoooaaah! 
BODHI I'll take that as a yes. 
One by one they stabilize.  Falling face down, knees bent, they angle their hands and feet minutely to move laterally.  Utah flails, the last to trim out.  But he's holding his own. 
Grommet, working his duckfeet, pitches himself into a wild spin, rotating like a dervish in a head down dive.  He flares out and "flies" back to the others. Rocketing through the void at 120 mph they seem to paradoxically hang above the world, almost unmoving... on a separate plane of existence. A hurricane of wind.  Wild HOOTING. Despite his terror, Johnny has to grin at Nathaniel, falling butt first like he's sitting on a big inner tube in the pool. 
ROACH Whip it out dudes!  Cheap sex with the cosmos! 
Utah lunges, pinning Bodhi to the wall of the van... an elbow across his throat. 
UTAH You're a fucking dead man-- 
BODHI (gasping for breath) Whoa, whoa!!  Think it through!  I'm the only one knows where they are. Just let me talk for a second. 
Johnny pulls back.  Barely in control. 
UTAH Talk. 
BODHI She'll be fine, Rosie won't do anything.  At least not as long as I meet him at a certain place and time, about... let's see... (he looks at his dive Rolex) ... six hours from now. 
Utah's voice sounds kind of strangled. 
UTAH You call him... right now... and tell him to let her go. 
BODHI Sorry, can't do it, brah.  He's on the road.  And where they're going there's no phones.  Damn, I hate this Johnny, I really do.  I hate violence.  See, that's why I need Rosie.  I could never make this thing work, myself.  No way I could hold a knife to Tyler's throat, man! She was my woman, once.  We shared time in this world.  But Rosie, he's kind of a... mechanism.  Once you set him in motion, he won't stop. That's his gift, a kind of... blankness.  Noon comes, straight up, he'll gut her like a pig and try not to get any on his shoes.  Nothing I can do, unless I get there. 
Utah blanches as he takes this in.  Knows Bodhi well enough now to know he means business. 
BODHI So that makes us partners, doesn't it?  Because now we both have the same goal... to get me where I need to go.  Right? 
Utah's expression turns suddenly cold as an executioner's. 
UTAH We're wasting time. 
BODHI See!  That's what I like about you, man!  You're just sharp as a razor blade. 
Bodhi jumps out of the van and approaches the others, gathered nearby.  He addresses the pilot first... 
BODHI Get the plane down to Santa Monica and top up the tanks. (to the others) Let's go.  Let's saddle up! 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  L.A. STREETS - DAY 
A STYLIZED LONG LENS SHOT stacks the cars into a dreamlike mirage.  The van weaves slowly among them with predatory stealth. 
BODHI (V.O.) Okay.  All I'm askin' for is ninety seconds of your life, Johnny. That's all. 
INT.  VAN 
EXTREME CLOSEUP ON the velcro straps of Second Chance armor.  Tanned fingers cinch it tight.  A SHELL slides into the cylinder of the Casull.  A SHOTGUN is cocked. KACHACK! 
BODHI It's basic dog psychology, brah.  If you scare them, get them pissing down their leg, they submit... you control them.  If you project weakness, you draw aggression... that's how people get hurt. 
WIDER, revealing that Bodhi is in the back with Utah and Roach. Nathaniel and Grommet sit up front. The duffels contents are strewn around.  Masks.  Weapons. They're all pulling on suit pants and jackets.  Tying ties.  Slipping on white gloves.  Snappy Oxfords. Bodhi is pulling a suit jacket on over his BODY ARMOR. Utah is fumbling with his armored vest.  He works with vicious, jerky moves.  His jaw locked.  Eyes down. 
BODHI Fear causes hesitation, and hesitation will cause your worst fears to come true.  You project strength to avoid conflict. 
ROACH Peace through superior firepower, babe. 
Bodhi conspicuously empties all the shells from a PUMP 12 GAUGE. Pockets the shells.  Tosses the weapon to Utah. 
BODHI Here, you need this.  You can't be comin' through that door with your dick in your hands, right? 
UTAH I can't do this. 
BODHI Sure you can!  You may even like it... it's a killer rush.  You'll see.  Hey, don't I show you things, Johnny U? 
UTAH Bodhi, this is your wake up call, man -- I... am... an... Eff... Bee... Eye... Agent!! 
BODHI Wild, ain't it?!  See, we exist on a higher plane, you and I.  We make our own rules.  Why be a servant of the law Johnny U... when you can be it's master? 
GROMMET Fuckin' A! 
BODHI Ninety seconds, man, door to door. A small price to pay for someone who loves you. (he looks up) She does you know.  It's not her style to fall so hard... I don't think she did with me. 
He pulls the Ronald Reagan mask over his head smoothly. Roach pulls his on.  NIXON.  Nathaniel becomes KENNEDY. Grommet transforms into LBJ. Bodhi looks in the bag -- no more masks. 
BODHI Sorry, Johnny.  Guess you don't get to be president. 
JOHNNY'S POV -- the back doors of the van.  And the promise of what is beyond.  Bodhi enters FRAME.  Looks straight at us. 
TIGHT ON THE GUARD'S ANKLE where we can see a sliver of BACK-UP GUN, a tiny .25 auto in an ankle holster. The guard's eyes are pleading with the hard-on cop. "Don't make me do this". The guy is sweating, shaking.  A yellow liquid spreads across the tiles next to his quivering hips.  He's actually pissing himself, he's so scared. 
TIGHT ON the off-duty cop.  Watching like a ferret.  He cocks his .38. ECU GUARD'S EYES, wide with terror. 
It happens like lightning.  The cop pops to his knees, straight-arming the .38.  The guard goes for his ankle holster. REAGAN spins. The cop FIRES.  BLAM! Reagan is catapulted backward off the counter by the impact. He crashes onto a desk on his back.  Slides off, scattering papers. A teller screams.  The cop spins toward Utah. Johnny throws down the shotgun.  Shows his palms.  He's holding out his gold star. 
UTAH Federal agent!  Undercover! 
The cop FIRES TWICE.  Two in the chest.  Utah is hurled back.  Slams into the tellers' counter. 
NATHANIEL/LBJ lets go with the 12 gauge.  BOOM! The cop spins, hit by some 00 buck pellets. The guard caps-off like a maniac.  BLAM, BLAM, BLAM, BLAM!!! All of them wild, but serving to get Nathaniel pinned down behind a check-writing island. 
ROACH/NIXON LEAPS THE COUNTER and lands behind the guard. The guard's shoulder explodes as Roach's 12 gauge detonates.  He pitches onto his face, screaming and holding the wreckage of his upper arm. Grommet/LBJ is coming over the counter behind Roach as the off-duty cop spins and fires.  BLAM!  BLAM!  Roach takes it in the chest.  Staggers back, firing into the floor. Trips and drops his shotgun. Grommet clutches his throat as blood streams over his fingers. 
IN SLOW MOTION Reagan's face rises above the counter. The mask is askew.  In order to see, Bodhi pulls it off. The Casull comes up in a slow, deliberate arc as-- 
THE COP turns, terrified now, whipping his gun around, nightmarishly slow as-- 
BODHI COCKS THE CASULL in dream-time and-- KABOOOOM!!!  The world's most powerful handgun proves its claim at 2000 feet per second. 
A gout of hamburger explodes out of the cop's chest. He is lifted off his feet.  Hits and slides across the floor leaving a two-foot wide red smear. Echoes slap the walls.  Then all is still.  Plaintive whimpering and moaning.  The air is blue with smoke. 
Johnny is trying to catch his breath.  He rips his shirt open to see two deep indentations in the Second Chance vest.  Flattened .38 slugs caught in the Kevlar mesh.  But no blood. 
Bodhi drops over the counter near Utah. The two men look at each other. Bodhi's eyes seem lost.  He stares around at the carnage he has wrought, the bloody wreckage of his ego game. His expression changes to something new -- truly crazed now.  We feel that the madness which has been held in check so long has been let off its leash. 
BODHI Don't anybody fucking move! 
Roach, clutching his side, moves to Grommet, who is on his knees. Beneath LBJ's stony countenance a river of blood flows down Grommet's chest.  Roach pulls off the mask. Revealing a terrified kid. Grommet pulls his blood-drenched hand away from his throat, stares at it bug-eyed. 
GROMMET Oh no, oh my god, oh god... it's all comin' out man, gotta stop it... it's all gonna come out... do something!! 
He's trying to hold it in with his hands.  This doesn't work. A paste-white frightened kid.  Eighteen years old. Suddenly realizing that this is not some video game.  That death is real. He slumps back, losing the battle for consciousness. WE HEAR SIRENS APPROACHING. 
ROACH (freaking to Bodhi) We gotta bug out, man!  We're eatin' it bad on this one.  Let's go! 
Bodhi reaches down and picks up Johnny's FBI shield off the floor. He considers it for a long time.  Then looks up at Johnny. His eyes seem to ask for forgiveness... A moment before he smashes the Casull into Johnny's skull. 
JOHNNY'S POV, as he drops to his knees.  Everything going dark as we see Bodhi's face distantly, his mouth moving slowly... 
BODHI Goodbye, Johnny. 
The floor rushes up and smashes us in the face. A view of shoes, running away from us, leaving bloody footprints.  Then total darkness. 
CUT TO: 
INT./ EXT.  FIRST SECURITY BANK - LATER 
Ten minutes later the bank "crime scene" is in full swing. UNIFORM COPS are everywhere, trying to get statements from sobbing witnesses.  HARP, MUNOZ, COLE AND PAPPAS represent the FBI contingent.  Cole has one arm strapped to his body in a fairly elaborate sling, and he moves slowly. 
Harp is barking orders to everyone in sight.  Outside (visible beyond the doors) it's total pandemonium, with cops and ambulances, and of course a huge crowd of rubberneckers.  A MINICAM CREW shows up.  Harp starts shouting at them. 
COLE, with evident pleasure, cinches down a pair of handcuff's on Utah's wrists with his good hand.  Johnny has a deep cut on his forehead, and the blood is trickling into his eyes, but he seems not to notice.  Not to hear MUNOZ speaking monotonously-- 
MUNOZ -- if you so desire, an attorney will be provided for you free of cost.  Do you understand these rights I have explained to you? Utah? 
Pappas charges through the crowd, pushing Munoz aside. 
PAPPAS He knows his goddamn rights! (looks at Utah) Jesus, kid.  I knew you were getting too close to these guys. (turns to the other agents) Gimme the goddamn key to these things, Cole.  Christ! 
He gestures to the cuffs still cutting into Johnny's wrists. Cole hands him the key. Harp storms toward them. 
HARP Don't take those off.  Just leave them on!  Your partner's an accessory to murder.  You realize that? 
Harp spins Johnny by the shoulder to look at-- Paramedics carrying the covered body of the off-duty cop. Beyond, still on the floor, is Grommet, his eyes staring in death. He was right about not making thirty. 
HARP Three men dead.  One of them a cop. How's that sit in your gut, Utah? 
UTAH (cold and scary) Take your hand off my shoulder right now. 
Harp pulls back instinctively.  Utah's eyes burn into him. Looks like Johnny's not in the FBI anymore. 
PAPPAS Look, Harp.  Don't turn him over to the uniforms like some punk.  Let me ride him in. 
UTAH Shit may or may not happen. 
UTAH Look, you got a death wish, you want to ride to glory... fine!  But don't take her with you, man.  I'm begging you... tell me where she is.  Then I walk away.  We've earned that much trust, haven't we? 
The pilot opens the door and is climbing out when Nathaniel wheels on him.  The pilot goes cross-eyed staring down the muzzle of the 12 gauge, inches from his face. 
BODHI (to the pilot) Back in the hotseat, campadre. NOW! 
BEHIND THE TRUCKS, Pappas senses something. His head snaps around. Roach is behind him with the 12 gauge.  He FIRES. Pappas hurls his weight sideways, as the buckshot punches into the truck fender.  Some of it catches Pappas in the hip.  He hits the ground hard and whips up the .38 BAM! BAM!  BAM! Roach flips onto his back. The shotgun blows a hole in the sky as he hits the deck. Pappas is on the ground, totally exposed, 20 feet from the others. 
NATHANIEL fires once, wild.  Terrified.  His shot blows a divot out of the asphalt next to Pappas. He pumps the slide, chambering another round. Then Pappas' fourth and fifth rounds drill into him. He slams back against the Cessna's fuselage. Slides down.  Two red smears on the white aircraft. Bodhi lunges for the fallen 12 gauge. Pappas takes aim.  One round left. Utah sprints between them. 
UTAH Angelo!  Don't fire! 
PAPPAS Kid, get outta the way!! 
UTAH NOOO!! 
Utah is blocking Bodhi with his body. Bodhi's fingers are poised, frozen, a few inches from the shotgun. Standoff. 
PAPPAS GODDAMMIT!! 
He snaps the pistol up, aimed at the sky. Pappas stands panting.  Enraged and frustrated.  Pain searing his leg.  Everything is tense and electrified. BOOM!!  Pappas' chest EXPLODES with a spray of blood! 
BEHIND HIM, ROACH is lying on one elbow in a pool of scarlet. He cocks another round into the chamber and fires again. BOOM! 
Angelo drops to his knees, holding his ruined body like he's hugging himself.  Johnny lunges toward him, his face distorted with shock. 
UTAH NNNOOOOOO!!! 
Angelo's eyes meet his for a moment. In his dilated pupils is the great question. Then he slumps forward and lies very still. The breath leaves his body and doesn't go back in. 
Johnny moves toward his friend in a daze.  Drops to one knee beside him. Roach aims the shotgun at him, coughing blood. Utah doesn't notice.  Or is beyond caring. Bodhi holds his hand up in a gesture like a benediction. Roach's finger relaxes on the trigger. 
Utah puts his hand on Angelo's white crewcut hair. He hears the scraping of steel on asphalt behind him as Bodhi picks up the other twelve gauge. 
Roach is working himself to his knees.  His breath is sucking through a bloody hole in his chest as well as the customary breathing orifices.  Bodhi crosses to him and helps him up.  He covers Utah with the shot gun as he half-carries Roach to the plane.  The pilot is white with shock.  He'd run if he could remember how. 
PILOT I ain't flyin' you guys to San Phillipe man, forget it.  Not now-- 
BODHI Thanks for telling the nice FBI agent where we're going. 
Roach works his way up into the plane.  He waves the shotgun at the pilot, his face a vicious, blood-flecked mask. 
ROACH Get in the fucking plane. 
Bodhi stands behind Johnny, the shotgun aimed at his head. Their expressions are lethally cold. We see that Utah hates this man who was his friend, his teacher, more now than he dreamed it was possible to hate. 
BODHI We're gonna ride this out, all the way, Johnny.  You and me.  Let's go. 
Johnny nods slowly, as if accepting that this was all somehow pre-ordained, and that they both knew the game would take them this far and beyond.  He stands and walks to the plane. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  MEXICO - DAY 
THE SCREEN EXPLODES WITH A BLUR OF MOTION. POV of the ground racing below us at 180 mph. 
REVERSE, preceding the plane as it rockets through barren canyons. As close to the earth as the terrified pilot will take it. Under the radar. 
INT.  PLANE 
The aircraft bucks like a bull as the pilot jinks and banks wildly. Bodhi has the Casull aimed at the base of his skull from the jump seat just behind him. Roach holds the shotgun on Utah, seated across from him in the rear seats. Roach is a pale, sweaty mask.  He is propped against a bulkhead, seemingly collapsed in on himself like a discarded coat. His entire shirtfront and lap are slick with blood. But his gaze is steady, and the shotgun is aimed into Utah's guts. No one talks or moves on this grim hell-ride. 
EXT.  ARROYO 
Near noon.  The sun blisters a landscape out of time. The white Cessna rockets above the saguaros, its shadow pumping up and down over the broken terrain like some manic alter ego below it.  It WOOSHES over us, raising dust devils. 
INT.  PLANE 
The pilot yells over his shoulder to Bodhi... 
PILOT Look, we been in Mexico the last half hour... can I quit mowing the lawn here or what?  I'm getting more brush in the wheels than I usually like, you know what I'm saying?! 
UTAH No games, Bodhi.  Pull the cord! Now!! 
BODHI Naw, you pull it! 
Utah looks down.  The earth is rushing at them.  2500 feet. 
BODHI Go on, Johnny.  Pull it.  But you gotta drop the gun, first!  Right?! You use your other hand what you gonna hold on with? 
UTAH Pull it right now or I'll blow your fucking head off and pull it myself! 
BODHI Well that's the only way it's gonna happen, man.  Do it!  Come on, you want to do it.  You're gonna die, Johnny.  Five more seconds.  Four... 
1000 feet.  The ground is close enough to see details. Cactus, sagebrush.  They rocket past the bright yellow canopy of Roach's chute a hundred feet away. 
UTAH You fucking crazy!?  Pull it!! 
They're right in each other's faces.  Taking it way beyond the edge. Bodhi's eyes are wild.  A gleeful, adrenalized madness... his pupils are the entrance to Hell. 
BODHI Three seconds... two... one... 
UTAH SHIT!! 
Utah flings the Casull away and pulls the rip-cord so hard he almost loses his grip anyway.  POOM!  The canopy cracks out. Full and round and bright red. The ground roars at us. WHAP!  Utah and Bodhi hit.  Hard. 
They slide and tumble down the slope of an arroyo in a cloud of dust. Rocks and debris clatter into silence. 
NEARBY Roach hits the ground limp as a rag doll. He moves listlessly as his chute lines tug at him but his eyes stare without blinking right at the sun.  Next to him the money satchel's contents are spilled right into the sand.  Roach's lifeless hands lie limp among the bills that caper in the desert wind. 
UTAH AND BODHI are both completely still as the dust clears.  Finally they groan and stir.  Necks move, hands move, legs move.  Bodhi rolls to his knees.  He is cut and scraped, the blood running bright down his dust-covered skin. 
Utah looks around, blinking. Surreal that he should be plopped down here in the red-hot Mexican desert. Bodhi staggers to his feet and grins at him. 
BODHI Wild ride, huh? 
UTAH (gasping) Jesus Christ, Bodhi! 
Utah tries to rise and -- grabs his knee in agony.  We see by his mask of pain that it's totaled inside. 
BODHI That pesky knee, huh?  Too bad. 
He looks up at the sound of an engine. 
BODHI'S POV of his big four-by roaring toward us with a meteor tail of dust.  It slides to a stop next to them. Rosie gets out of the driver's side and stands calmly with a sawed-off over his shoulder. 
Utah blinks through his sweat and pain at-- 
TYLER running toward him out of the dust.  She kneels next to him and puts her arms around him.  Bodhi limps to the truck.  Through the swirling dust we see him look back. 
BODHI You had me worried there, for a second, Johnny U. 
He swings up into the four-by and guns the engine.  Rosie hops into the shotgun seat and the truck hurls up roostertails as it tears out across the desert toward Roach's billowing gravemarker. 
Johnny touches Tyler's face tenderly, leaving a smear of blood. He gives her a wan version of the Johnny Utah grin. 
HOLD ON the truck moving off in a heat-shimmered cloud of dust, becoming a mirage, then a memory as we-- 
DISSOLVE TO: 
AN ENORMOUS WAVE which FILLS FRAME, seeming to rise endlessly before thundering down in a holocaust of spray. 
EXT.  BEACH DAY - DAY 
An unfamiliar beach laid waste by monster waves under a storm sky. Wind whips sand across the narrow beach-road, throwing it against the front doors of the LIGHTHOUSE PUB. TITLE OVER: ONE YEAR LATER... 
INT.  LIGHTHOUSE PUB - DAY 
Dark.  Almost empty.  A snarling crocodile head is mounted above a tapper of Guinness Stout.  A Koala bear with plastic eyes holds a Foster's.  A BARTENDER with leathered skin washes glasses. At the bar, a single disheveled customer... human driftwood. GUST OF WIND blows open a shuttered window. The bartender moves to close it. 
BARTENDER Gonna close early today, mate, 'fore the bloody storm hits. 
JOHNNY UTAH swivels toward CAMERA.  His tanned face is barely recognizable, jaws hidden underneath a slight beard, long bleach-out hair swept behind an ear.  His muscular shoulders pop from a sleeveless football jersey. The man seems deadly focused. 
UTAH Storm's already here... It's bringing me the swell. 
