Movie: MewTwo Strikes Back ***This is not an official manuscript. This is a translation of an untranslated episode and is only released as a reference material to the pokémon series and games. All copyrights belong to Nintendo, Game Freaks, and all creators of the movie*** 
(Opens when the camera is underwater.) 
Voice Who am I? I've been dreaming about this world which doesn't exist in my memory. (Mew swims by) Who are you? Wait! Am I apart of you...? Or not...? (Camera goes into a darker place with orange bubbles then it shows someone's eye open. Human figures are seen outside where he is.) Where is this? Who am I? Who brought me here? (We now see who the voice belongs to, it's Mewtwo.) 
Mewtwo Who am I and why am I here? I just appeared here. I haven't even been born to this world yet. Who am I? (Mewtwo opens his eyes completely and shatters the glass and all the wires fall of him!) 
Scientist It has awakened! 
Mewtwo Did he do this? 
Scientist Wonderful! Mewtwo has been completed. 
Mewtwo Mewtwo? 
Scientist (all shaking hands) I'm going to contact the other offices. 
Mewtwo Who am I? Where is this place? What was I born for? (Mewtwo floats up and starts destroying the whole lab. Then tons of little metal hand like things come down to stop him but he just blows them up. Soon the whole lab is in flames.) 
Scientist To make the strongest pokémon ever.. that was our dream... (The whole lab blows up. Giovanni, the leader of Team Rocket comes down in a chopper and confronts Mewtwo.) 
Mewtwo Is this my power? I'm the strongest pokémon in the world. Mew. Am I stronger then you? 
Giovanni You surly are the strongest pokémon in the world. But there is another that would be the strongest. 
Mewtwo The humans? 
Giovanni 
(nods) If you and a human were to cooperate then the world would be ours. 
Mewtwo is sent into an arena to fight pokémon first an Onix which Mewtwo throws into a wall with his mind. Then it shows Mewtwo out in a field with a lot of wild Tauros. He raises them up with his mind control and TR throws pokéballs out and catches them all. Then it shows Mewtwo in the gym again fighting Alakazam, Mewtwo does just what he did to Onix. Then came Electron and he used an electric attack and Mewtwo reflected it back at him. Next came Gary's Arcanine and Nidoking... he took care of them easily. Next scene, back in Giovanni's lab. 
Mewtwo What am I fighting for? What am I living for? 
Giovanni You are a pokémon. Pokémon made by humans, what else are you worth? 
Mewtwo My worth? Who am I? What do I live for? (Mewtwo starts breaking free of the wires) 
Giovanni What are you doing? 
Mewtwo I was made by humans. But I, who was created by humans, am not even a pokémon. (Mewtwo blows up the place and flies off while all his armor slowly falls of into the sea. He lands on a rock.) Who am I? Where is this place? Who asked to make me? Who wished to make me? I hate everything that made me! So this is neither an attack not a declaration of war but revenge on you who made me! 
Introduction 
(Brock is cooking lunch for everyone.) 
(runs over to him) Okay! I must have a solid fight! 
Misty I thought you couldn't move one millimeter? 
Ash Just one or two pokémon fights before breakfast. 
Brock This is lunch, so that would be before lunch. 
Pikachu pika..chu... 
(Has the Japanese Pokémon intro music through this battle the whole time. Ash pulls out a pokéball and throws out Bulbasaur. Then the pirate throws out Donfan. Bulbasaur charges and Donfan rolls into a ball and hits Bulbasaur, then turns around and hits him again! Then he tries it again but Bulbasaur uses Solar Beam and Donfan faints. The Pirate then sends out Machamp. Ash sends out Squirtle. Machamp kicks Squirtle down and then goes to kick him again but Squirtle dodges it and bubbles him till Machamp faints. The pirate gets mad and throws 3 pokéballs down. one is a Venomoth another is a Golem and the other is a Pinsir. Pikachu jumps off ashes shoulder and does Thundershock and all 3 faint.) 
Pirate Oh My God! (this was possibly the funniest part of the entire movie :) 
Ash I did it! 
Scene change. We see Mewtwo waving his hand back and forth moving the clouds, causing a big storm to start. We then see mew sleeping in a bubble underwater as the bubble floats to the top and pops, Mew wakes up and flies off. Ash and everyone run out of the storm and into a ocean side house that has all the other trainers who were invited. 
A Trainer Calm down Kingler! Cut it out! (Our heroes run inside wet.) 
Ash It was a beautiful day! 
Brock The weather along this beach can change easily. (we notice a big crowd of trainers by the door and Officer Jenny standing with a woman talking to them all) 
Crowd Huh? The ferry has been canceled? 
Sweet We can't go to the New Island?! 
Crowd Oh No! We were invited to go! 
Officer Jenny Be quiet everyone. Here is the Pier Master. 
Brock Beautiful... Who? I've seen her somewhere before... (Some of the trainers go outside in the storm wanting to cross the ocean. Soroa gets onto his Pidgeot and flies off. Umio gets on his Gyarados and swims across.) 
Officer Jenny Stop! Stop or I'll arrest you! (Sweet gets on her Dewgong and starts swimming away.) 
Boijer There's no use trying to stop them. After all they're pokémon trainers. If they were children who would stop after being told to, they wouldn't have gathered here. Let's just pray for there safety. (Ash, Brock, Misty and Pikachu run outside and see everyone leaving.) 
Ash Across the sea lives the strongest trainer in the world. I can't cop out now. 
Misty But we can't cross this sea using our pokémon. 
Ash Right. (A Small wooden ship pulls up with 2 people in it. Guess who?) 
Jessie Want a ride? Not saying that it's free but depending on the situation. I might allow you onboard. (They get on and start going and Meowth is dressed like a girl in front of the boat, then a huge wave and Team Rocket's costumes fall off. then the waves start getting really rough.) 
Ash You guys! You guys again?! 
Ash How's this? (He shows her). 
B rock That was you just as I thought! 
Lady Yes? 
Brock That picture of Nurse Joy I saw in the missing person report at the pier was you. 
Misty That reminds me, she looks like her. 
Lady I don't know what your talking about. I've been serving this castle ever since I was born. Come this way. The other guests are already waiting. 
They go inside and Team Rocket floats up from the water on top of Weezing. Then it shows Mew playing with the windmill on top of the castle. MEANWHILE Ash and everyone are inside the castle. 
Lady Those are the trainers who have already arrived. 
Meowth The s..s..sewer!? I'm not a brown rat! 
Jessie Don't complain! (All of a sudden Mew comes down from behind TR and looks at them. Jessie turns her head but Mew disappeared.) 
James What's wrong Jessie? 
Jessie Nothing lets go. 
Meanwhile... 
Sorao You came too? 
Ash You? 
Sorao I flew here. My Pidgeot can cross such a hurricane in one flight. Everyone greet them! (all his pokémon say their names Then they see a Gyarados.) 
Jessie Meowth! (Both Jessie and James start pull to get Meowth out and they do get him out but not before the machine got 3 hairs from off of his tail.) 
Meowth OUCH! My hair! (on the computer screen a figure of a Meowth shows up and the computer starts saying some weird stuff then in an empty test tube next to Team Rocket, a Meowth falls down from a pipe into it) 
All of TR MEOWTH?! 
Meowth I am Meowth. 
James Then this is.... Meowth's copy? (Mew appears behind Team Rocket again.) 
Computer But the copy we created is more than we've imaged. The pokémon which we found.... in the depths... it's name is Mew... We succeeded in finding fossilized eye lashes of a mew. From the gathered components we created Mewtwo with this machine. The goal was to make the strongest pokémon with our own hands. That was our dream. But soon Mewtwo displayed unmeasurable violence. Its all over. The research office will be destroyed. The only way left to abandon this place and escape. (the computer shuts off) 
Jessie This is the research office? 
James I think so. 
Mewtwo What did you say? You're not being controlled? You're with the humans because you want to be? To be with them by itself is wrong. (Mewtwo lifts Pikachu up with his mind and throws him but Ash jumps back and catches him!) 
Pikachu pika! 
Ash Pikachu! 
Mewtwo Weak pokémon rely on humans. 
Misty Ash! Are you ok? 
Ash Yeah. How dare you attack Pikachu?! 
Soroa We can get him no matter what kind of pokémon he is, as long as he's a pokémon, GO RYHORN! (Ryhorn charges at Mewtwo and is 1 inch from him and Mewtwo stops him and raises him into the air, and shoots Ryhorn across the room!) 
Soroa Ryhorn! 
Soroa They are...? (Everything starts shaking and a huge door opens and inside is a pokémon battle field.) 
Brock A battle field? Is he going to have a pokémon battle? 
Soroa I've got Venusaur for that copy one! 
Sweet I've got Blastoise for that copy one! 
Ash I've got Charizard too. Charizard I chose you! (Charizard comes out and gives Mewtwo and evil look then shoots fire out at him but Mewtwo makes a force field around him so it doesn't even touch him.) Charizard, that's a surprise attack. (Mewtwo shoots up water and the fire goes out.) 
Mewtwo What a bad tempered Charizard. So who's first? (Soroa's Venusaur walks out.) 
Soroa I was careless before, but it won't go that way this time. 
(The copied Venusaur walks out.) 
Misty Where are the speed attacks? 
Brock The enemy is to fast! (Copied Charizard grabs Charizard and starts flying down to the ground!) 
Ash Charizard! 
Mewtwo Dive Bomb Slam! 
Charizard hits into the ground then gets up.. roars loudly.. then faints. 
Ash 
(Runs out to Charizard) Hold on Charizard! Are you okay? 
Mewtwo Both speed and power are lacking. (Mewtwo then throws his hands up and 3 black pokéballs appear he shoots them all out and captures Sweet's Blastoise another gets Soroa's Venusaur and the other captures ashes Charizard! A small gold statue lifts up and the 3 balls shoot down into the hole.) 
Meanwhile up stairs... 
Mewtwo Humans, I won't take your lives too. Leave here. 
The doors open to the exit. 
Mewtwo That is if you an make it out in that storm. 
Then there is an explosion and all the copied pokémon come walking out. 
Mewtwo What happened here? 
From the smoke, Ash and all the original pokémon come walking out. 
Ash I can not forgive...! I will not forgive you! 
Mewtwo What? (Mew flies up to Ash and stares at him, Ash then looks at Mew and Mew pops the bubble and Ash falls -only like a foot then Mew starts giggling.) You're... (Mew makes another bubble and starts jumping up and own on it giggling and having a good time, then Mewtwo makes a black electric ball and shoots it up and it pops mew bubble. Mew turns around and looks at Mewtwo confused. Mewtwo makes another and blows up when it hits Mew. Mewtwo makes 3 more and throws them all up at Mew, Mew dodges them all and starts giggling again.) 
Brock That's... 
Misty Pokémon? 
Mew flies down and looks at Mewtwo 
Mewtwo Mew. The pokémon that's supposed to be the rarest pokémon in the world. 
Brock Mew? (Mew looks around at everyone... I love this guy!) 
Mewtwo I was made from you. But I am the stronger one...I am the true one. (Mew is still looking around acting like its paying no attention to Mewtwo.) 
Brock Mew and Mewtwo. 
Mewtwo The real one is real?.... Fine! (Mewtwo shoots another black electric ball at Mew but Mew dodges it and just barely misses Ash! Ash then starts climbing down the statue.) Lets decide which is the real one without skills. You're the stronger ones, GO! (All the copies start attacking their originals. The copies are winning. Mewtwo makes a visible blue force field around himself. Mew does the same except its pink and they fly up high in the air and keep ramming into each other. Then Pikachu is looking around at the big copy war then he sees his copy standing there ready to fight him! Pikachu can't believe it.) 
Nurse Joy What is this fighting? Both the real ones and copies are alive now. 
Sweet Everyone is a living thing 
Brock Though they were created, there are living beings that live in this world. 
Misty The real ones and the copies... But both of them are the same living things. There's no such thing as a win and losing. 
James If we were asked that, I wouldn't know what to say 
Jessie I feel so sorry 
James They're bullying themselves. 
Meowth Talking about the moon at a time like this is tasteful. Its philosophical. (Meanwhile Mew and Mewtwo are still bouncing around fighting. And Ash finally makes it back to the ground.) 
Ash 
(looks at everyone fighting and getting so tired) That's Enough! Stop! 
Brock Ash! 
Ash I've got to stop them. 
Brock No. The battle will continue unless Mew and Mewtwo stop fighting. 
Nurse Joy Animals don't hand over there territory to the same type of animal. 
Misty oh no. 
Mew mew. 
Mewtwo It might be better if no one knows about us, or any of this... 
Mew mew... (Mew and Mewtwo start flying away and then all the copies pokémon lift up into the air and fly with them!) 
Ash Why are you going everyone? 
Mewtwo 
(flying away with all the copies) We were born and alive. We will continue to live somewhere in this world. (All of a sudden the whole castle fills up with bright light and everyone disappears......... Now we are back where all the trainers what to go on the ferry.) 
Officer Jenny The ferry has been canceled! There's a hurricane coming! 
Nurse Joy 
