THE POWER OF ONE 
Written by ROBERT MARK KAMEN 
Based on the Novel by BRYCE COURTENAY 
February 1990 Draft 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. 
THE POWER OF ONE 
What if the power of one becomes the power of many and the power of many becomes the power of one? 
FADE IN: 
1   EXT. SOUTH AFRICAN FARM - DAY (1939)                      1 
A white car sits in the yard of the farmhouse. On the door, a decal: "CAPETOWN SANITORIUM." Two men dressed in the white uniforms of the sanitorium exit the farm- house; one gently guiding a rather frail, troubled woman toward the car; the other totes her suitcase. 
The V.O. of a young man narrates: 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) There comes a time in everyone's life when they discover that the only person you can truly depend on is yourself. That the only real power anyone has to get anything done is the power of one. With any luck you can make it through a lot of years before you ever have to face the reality of that fact. (beat) It was a luxury I never had. I discovered it the year my mother had her nervous breakdown. 
One attendant holds the rear door of the car open for the woman. Before entering, she turns one last time toward the farmhouse. 
2   HER POV                                                   2 
A young BOY looking one part scared, one part sad, and one part lost stares back at her, his hand held by a large, amiable black woman with tears rolling down her round cheeks. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) I was all of six. 
3   BACK TO SCENE                                                3 
The woman enters the car. The car drives off down the road. The Boy watches it disappear behind a plume of swirling dust. YOUNG MAN (V.O.) My father died before I was born, and even though I was raised by my Zulu nanny, with my mother, depending on her health, in nominal attendance, it was decided, with her departure, that I, too, would depart... (beat) ... for boarding school. 
The dust the Boy has been watching reverses itself. An unseen vehicle comes up the road. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) But before I could be sent out into the world one very serious matter had to be dealt with. (beat) I was a chronic bedwetter. Since my nanny was the one responsible for my well-being, she did what any responsible Zulu mother would do. She called on the greatest medicine man of her tribe -- Inkosi Inkosikazi. 
Out of the dust a large black Buick ROADMASTER ROARS up the road and into the yard, scattering chickens and geese, stopping in front of the wide-eyed six-year-old and his tremulous nanny. A huge Zulu jumps out of the front passenger seat and opens the rear door. A moment passes, and then two splayed, cracked feet descend from the car and settle into the dust. INKOSI INKOSIKAZI, 100 years old, small, black, wizened, hair and beard whiter than cotton, a leopard skin draped over his shoulders, a beaded fly switch in one hand, a trussed chicken in the other, exits the car. 
CUT TO: 
4   EXT. YARD - NIGHT                                       4 
A fire burns bright in the black African night. The Boy sits holding the chicken, close by the fire, while Inkosi Inkosikazi shuffles around him, drawing a circle in the dust with a stick. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) Legend had it that Inkosi Inkosikazi was the last son of the great Zulu king, Dingaan, who fought both the Boers and the British to a standstill nearly 100 years before, and the night Inkosi Inkosikazi was conceived stars fell from the sky until the sun rose. The circle    complete, the old man sits down opposite the Boy. From     a leather pouch he produces several bones. He throws the    bones on the ground and studies them for a moment. He     begins to wave the fly switch back and forth in front of    the Boy's eyes, chanting low, softly. The Boy's eyes    grow heavy; his lids droop. 
5   DREAM - EXT. WATERFALL                                     5 
The Boy and the old man are standing above a great waterfall. In the swirling pool far below are ten stepping stones linking one bank to the other. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) The medicine man instructed me to jump off the falls and climb along the ten stepping stones, counting as I went until I reached dry land. 
The Boy jumps, cascading down the   falls and into the pond below.  He clambers up the first   rock. It is slippery. He falls off and climbs back on,   buffeted by the spraying water.  He makes his way stone by   stone toward the other side. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) Even though it was only a dream, I felt as if my struggle to reach dry land was terrifyingly real. The water was like ice, bone- chilling, cold, and as I made my way from one stone to the next I could feel my strength desert me. The progress from one step to the next gets progressively harder as the Boy keeps slipping into the swirling water, coughing and sputtering. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) I was three rocks in when I ran out of gas. I couldn't pull myself any further. No matter how hard I 
tried, the current tried harder. I felt myself going under for the last time. 
The Boy's grip slips off the rock.   He starts to go under. 
CUT TO: 
6   EXT. FARMYARD - DAWN                                       6 The fire has gone out. The Boy is still sitting in the circle, the chicken still in his lap. His eyes snap open. The first thing he sees is Inkosi Inkosikazi sitting across from him with a big smile. 
CUT TO: 
7   EXT. YARD - DAY                                            7 
Inkosi Inkosikazi enters the Buick. The Boy and his smiling nanny watch. They Boy still holds the chicken. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) Inkosi Inkosikazi said the spirit of the great Zulu warriors lived in me. He told me that whenever trouble arose I should return to the waterfall and keep stepping across the rocks until the trouble passed. He said three rocks were enough to conquer my problem with the night water; that I was very brave. He said I was a man for all Africa, bound to her by my spirit, bound by my dreams. (beat) And he let me keep the chicken. 
The Boy and his nanny watch the car go off in a cloud of dust. CUT TO: 
8   EXT. VELDT - DAY                                           8 
The Boy sits on a train looking out the window at the veldt and the wildlife moving across in the distance. 
A sack on his lap moves. The chicken's head pops out. The Boy gives him some kernels of corn and scratches behind his scraggly comb. 
YOUNG MAN (V.O.) Although I was bound by spirit 
and dream to Africa, I was bound by heritage and language to the birthplace of my grandparents -- England -- a country I had never seen, but one that was to cause me eminently more problems than bedwetting ever did. 
CUT TO: 
9    EXT. ROAD TO SCHOOL                                        9 
JAAPIE For crimes committed against the whole Boer people. I, Jaapie Botha, the judge and Uberfuhrer, sentence you and your Rooinek kaffir chicken to death. Heil Hiter.! 
ALL Heil Hitler! 
Jaapie starts to swing the sling around and around.     The six-year-old struggles to get free. 
ALL Heil Hitler!   Heil Hitler! The SLING WHISTLES through the air, faster and faster. 
BOY No! Jaapie releases the stone. It flies true, catching the SQUAWKING, struggling CHICKEN flush in the chest. The flapping stops as blood soaks through feathers. 
Jaapie flings his hand forward, victorious. 
JAAPIE Heil Hitler! 
ALL Heil Hitler! 
The Boy takes the opportunity to break loose. He rushes Jaapie, whose arm is outstretched, putting him off balance. The Boy catches him low, driving his head into Jaapie's exposed stomach. Jaapie falls back and gets the knife used for his tattooing right in his ass. Jaapie Botha bellows like an enraged bull as he grabs futiley for the embedded blade. His cohorts laugh, thinking it tremendously funny, until Jaapie removes the knife and turns with it, dripping his own blood, his eyes murderous. The laughter dies. Jaapie's breath comes hard. 
JAAPIE Hang him up! 
A few boys protest. 
BOYS Jaapie!   No! 
But Botha is murderous, intent on revenge. 
JAAPIE Hang him! 
He waves the bloody knife in the air. Three boys grab the six-year-old and drag him to where the chicken is hanging. Two more boys throw a rope over the same rafter. Others bind the struggling boy, trussing his hands to his sides. 
JAAPIE You will pay for the deaths of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our aunts and uncles. All Rooineks will pay and you will be first. Pull! 
The boys who tied the rope now yank it over the rafter. The six-year-old is hoisted up until he is eye-level with the chicken. 
JAAPIE In the name of Adolf Hitler and the fatherland, I sentence you to die, Verdomde Rooinek. 
BOYS Kill him!   Kill him!   Kill him! 
Jaapie swings the sling overhead, faster and faster. 
19   ANGLE ON SIX-YEAR-OLD                                         19 
He watches as Jaapie bears down. As Jaapie is about to let the rock fly the door to the room opens and two STAFF MEMBERS burst in, surprising in. 
STAFF MEMBER What's this? 
The rock flies from the sling, but Jaapie's attention is diverted. His aim is off. The rock grazes the boy above the eye. He loses consciousness. The scene FADES TO BLACK. 
FADE IN: 
20   INT. ST. JOHN'S STUDY - DAY                                   20 Prince of Wales School, 1950. PK, 17     going on 18, well- built, intense, clear-eyed, handsome,    stands in front of a seminar and continues reading to 10    students, honor students, Headmaster St. John's chosen    few. St. John, with the demeanor of an Oxford don and    a mane of snowy white hair that reaches his shoulders,    sits off to the side, listening. 
PK I came to after being unconscious for two days, the rock missing my eye by half an inch. After a week in hospital it was decided I'd be sent to my grandfather's house in the English town of Barberton, at least until passions at school cooled. Jaapie Botha was expelled; sent home to his family's farm in disgrace. 
PK (CONT'D) (beat) And so the first recorded South African casualty of Hitler's insanity was not a Boer, nor a Rooinek, but a tatter-feathered, half-bald kaffir chicken. PK finishes. The end of class BELL RINGS. Offstage, other classrooms are exiting into the common hall, but no one in St. John's study moves. St. John takes his 
glasses off and wipes the lenses deliberately.   After a long moment he turns to face the class. 
ST. JOHN Very evocative, yes. Particularly the image of the chicken. Good choice there. 
St. John rises, lecturing. 
ST. JOHN Any ideology that needs to attack the thing that least threatens it is an ideology that will not outlive its own generation. Inclusion, gentlemen, not exclusion, is the key to survival. (beat) Something our new government should take heed of, eh? 
His eyes roam from face to face, fixing his point. 
ST. JOHN Next week we have Mr. Levy who will enlighten us on... 
MORRIE, a bright-eyed kinetic, speaks up. MORRIE Sport and wager in Imperial Rome, sir. 
ST. JOHN (facetious) Very apt, Mr. Levy. We look forward to the experience. (pause) All right. 
The boys bolt for the door. ST. JOHN P.K. 
PK approaches. ST. JOHN Well-written. 
PK Thank you, sir. 
ST. JOHN I've received notice from the 
Oxford selection committee. You are to appear before them in three weeks. I assume you'll be reading a piece of your fiction as your presentational. PK Yes, sir. 
ST. JOHN A word of caution. Contemporary to most of these fellows means the seventeenth century. Try and keep your theme, um, classical, if you know what I mean. 
PK Yes sir. I will. (beat) Will the scholarship be decided at the same time, sir? 
ST. JOHN Money's a different matter. Different committee. 
PK Very good, sir. St. John picks up a book and opens the pages. He begins to read. PK takes it as a cue for his dismissal. He goes to exit. 
ST. JOHN And P.K... 
PK turns at the door. 
MORRIE We're in a bloody war here, in 
case you forgot. Let's keep our mind on that, hey? 
He jams the mouthpiece into PK's mouth as the BELL RINGS. PK turns to an onslaught by Jannie, a real brawler. Jannie's big, overhand rights almost nail PK until he finds his footing and dances away. Jannie comes after him hard, his schoolmates bellowing encouragement. But PK's far superior boxing skills put Jannie at an immed- iate disadvantage. It is a classic battle of a boxer versus a fighter. PK's jabs keep Jannie at an arm's length, until he closes with a combination. Jannie, willing to take three punches to land one, absorbs PK's point scoring combinations and tries to land knockout punches. When he has had enough punishment he lunges into a clinch. 
JANNIE Blery Rooinek.     I'll kill you. 
PK pushes off as Jannie hammers at his kidneys. Backing up, PK repays the compliment with two quick jabs to the face. PK works Jannie, turning him left then right, working the angles, keeping him off balance while he racks up the points. Jannie goes left. As PK chases him that way his eyes fix on something out of the ring. 
25   HIS POV - REAR EXIT DOOR - TALL BLACK MAN                   25 
with a younger black companion of more average height, the only black faces in a crowd of 2,000 people. 
26   BACK TO SCENE                                               26 
Their presence distracts    PK for a split second, and in that split second Jannie    seizes the opportunity. He comes across with a big    right hand to PK's jaw. Jannie connects. PK goes down     hard. The crowd goes wild. Morrie leaps up and down    in the corner. MORRIE Get up!     Get up! 
But PK is seeing double.    He shakes his head, trying to clear it. 
MORRIE Up!   Up! 
27   PK'S POV - JANNIE                                      27 
dancing in his corner, sensing victory, the Ref over 
him, counting. 
28   BACK TO SCENE                                             28 
PK forces himself up.   The Ref checks him. 
REFEREE Okay.   Fight. 
Jannie comes rushing in, banging PK with a series of hard rights, but dropping his left each time he throws one. PK absorbs the punishment as best he can, backing up, dancing away. Jannie is all over him just as the BELL RINGS. Jannie goes back to his corner, triumphant. PK goes back to his and sits down with a blank ex- pression. Morrie goes to work on a small cut over his eye. MORRIE What are you trying to do, bankrupt us? What happened? 
PK turns and looks at the two Africans at the rear door. Morrie's eyes follow him, tensing as he sees the two men. 
MORRIE Christ! If they get caught in here they're dead. (beat) What the hell's going on? 
PK I don't know. 
MORRIE Well, worry about it later. In case you haven't noticed, this Boer bastard is trying to kill you. 
PK You see the way he drops his left when he throws the right? 
MORRIE Yeah? 
The BELL RINGS. PK and   Morrie trade a look. Jannie comes rushing over and  throws a big right. PK steps to his own right side and  pops Jannie right over his dropped left hand. He looks at   Morrie again. 
29   ANGLE ON MORRIE                                            29 
MORRIE Thank you, God. 
Jannie comes after PK, paying for each big right he throws as PK finds his mark. PK plants one, then two, then three punches on Jannie's face. Finally, frus- trated, Jannie forsakes all pretense of boxing and tries to nail PK with wild, flailing blows. PK bobs and weaves and feints. Jannie's punches grow weary. PK begins to bear down, driving his man back with rapid-fire com- binations until he delivers the coup de grace, a left hook to the heart and a driving right uppercut. Jannie goes down in a heap. The crowd goes wild. The Referee counts him out. Jannie's seconds rush into the ring to lift their fallen fighter. Morrie also rushes in, followed by the Prince of Wales boxing team. They hoist PK up on their shoulders. 
30   PK'S POV - MARIA MARAIS                                    30 
rising from her seat, and leaving with the other girls. Their eyes meet. Her hint of a smile breaks his heart. She disappears in the crowd. 
31   BACK TO SCENE                                              31 
PK's eyes rise to the rear exit.   The tall African and his companion have vanished. 
CUT TO: 
32   INT. LOCKER ROOM                                           32 
The boxing team and a number of their supporters are in raucous celebration. Morrie comes bouncing through the crowd, until he enters the empty dressing room in the rear, where PK is getting dressed. Morrie takes a wad of money out of his pocket. 
MORRIE Here you go, pal. He hands PK the money. 
PK You're the treasurer of this company. You hold it. Did you find out what I asked for? 
MORRIE 
Uh, listen, P.K. You know in this world there is no greater proponent of sins of the flesh than Morrie Levy. But  do yourself a favor on this one.  Take my advice. Pass. PK Thanks for the advice.    The information please. 
MORRIE Do you know who her father is? Professor Daniel Marais. PK So? 
MORRIE So? He's the Nationalist Party's resident intellectual. The man is one of the architects of this damned system of -- what are they calling it? -- apartheid? He has about as much use for a Rooinek Englishman rutting after his daughter as the Queen does for balls, pardon my French. 
PK What's her name and where do I find her? 
Morrie sighs. MORRIE Maria Elizabete Marais, Seniors Cottage, Room 22, Devilliers School. They don't call it 'Fortress Virgin' for nothing. You'll never get in. 
PK slips his school blazer on. 
PK You going to take book on that? 
MORRIE Already have.    Three-to-one says you don't. 
PK Where'd you bet? 
DOC Again it begins. The stupidity. Do not be frightened. 
Doc puts na arm around PK's shoulder, drawing him close, comforting him. One of the soldiers pulls a pair of handcuffs out of his pocket as he advances. 
CUT TO: 
51   EXT. BARBERTON PRISON                                      51 
A car pulls up. Doc, in shackles, is escorted from the car. PK exits after him. Two guards lead Doc toward the doorway to the prison, a square in the looming gates. Doc walks, his head held high. PK walks alongside holding his hand. 
BRITISH OFFICER (V.O.) Karl von Vollensteen, for the failure to register as an alien during times of war in accordance with His Majesty's government orders to do so, you are hereby sentenced to be confined at Barberton prison for the duration of the war with Germany. 
At the door a guard touches PK's   shoulder, holding him back. The door opens. Doc goes     through. Just before the door closes he looks back at   PK one last time. The door slams shut. PK, with tears    streaming down his cheeks, is left outside. 
CUT TO: 
52   INT. PK'S ROOM - NIGHT                                     52 
Morrie lies in bed, asleep.   PK sits up at his desk, writing. PK (V.O.) And again I was alone with nothing to depend on to see me through except the power of one. 
PK puts down his pen and sits, regarding the pages. He raises his eyes to a photo on the desk of a boy on a rock. 
PK smiles at hidden memories, caps his fountain pen, turns off the light. The room is pitched into darkness. 
CUT TO: 
53   EXT. DOWNTOWN ALLEY - AFTERNOON                            53 
The seedy side of town. PK carrying a gym bag and Morrie looking a bit out of place in their school blazers come striding up the alley. 
MORRIE Look, even if the scholarship doesn't come through, my old man said he'd lend you the money. 
PK Morrie. 
MORRIE All right. All right. We'll call it the 'Levy Carpet Emporium Scholarship for Poor but Proud Christian Gentlemen.' How's that? 
PK Tell your father I appreciate the offer. MORRIE God, I hate people who can't be bought. 
PK Why is that? 
MORRIE I don't know.    Personality disorder. 
PK nods in agreement. 
PK Undoubtedly. 
The boys come to their destination marked by a rickety, faded sign: "GOLDMAN'S GYM." Excitement shines in PK's eyes. He bounds up the narrow flight of stairs. 
CUT TO: 
54   INT. STAIRCASE                                            54 
Morrie and PK rush up the stairs, stop at the landing, and collect themselves before opening the door to the gym. They take a breath and enter. 
CUT TO: 
55   INT. GYM                                                  55 
A down and dirty boxing gym, humming with the rhythm of 
men training. Sweat and smoke fill the air along with the faint scent of blood. Fighters, both black and white, train with each other. Morrie is amazed. 
MORRIE How do they get away with this? 
But PK has his mind on other things. His eyes fix on an OLD MAN across the room standing by ringside. 
PK There he is. 
MORRIE Christ, he's old. 
PK And he's the best.    C'mon. PK leads Morrie across the gym. PK passes an African fighter. He stops training when he sees PK. He turns to another African fighter, glancing at PK. One by one the blacks in the gym stop training to look at PK. PK and Morrie approach the rheumy Old Man yelling at the two fighters in the ring above him in a thick Polish- Jewish accent. 
SOLLY (OLD MAN) No, no. God gave you two hands so you can knock a man out from either side. Left-right. 
He moves his creaky body back and forth to demonstrate. PK Mr. Goldman? Solly turns to the boys. A look of bemusement comes over his face when he sees their blazers. 
SOLLY What?    You boys lost? 
PK I'm the one who called you yesterday. From the Prince of Wales School? 
SOLLY Oh yeah, yeah.     The champeen. Right? PK (smiling) Right. 
SOLLY And who are you? 
MORRIE The champeen's manager. 
Solly rolls his eyes to heaven. 
SOLLY Oy gevalt. (beat) You know you train here it's not like those nice school fights you're used to. Three knockdowns you win. 
Just then, as if to underscore his point, one of the fighters in the ring gets caught witha solid shot to the jaw. He hits the canvas inches from where they are standing. Solly, PK and Morrie all look at him, and then at each other. 
MORRIE What does it cost for you to train him? 
CUT TO: 
62   INT. PRISON CORRIDOR                                      62 
PK and Von Zyl walk together. 
VON ZYL We have cleared a little plot behind the cellblock for the cactus. And tomorrow we have the professor's piano moved here. There is not another instrument like it in the territory. Maybe one day the two of you can give a concert for us, hey? 
PK Yes, sir. 
Just then the sound of GRUNTING and THWACKING fills the air. PK passes a room set up as a boxing gym. Through a crack in the door he sees a dozen boys being coached by some guards. Some guards are also being coached by a second man. A third man, LIEUTENANT SMIT, oversees the whole training session. PK watches, mesmerized. 
VON ZYL You like to box? 
PK I would like to learn, meneer. Are the boys prisoners? 
VON ZYL (laughs) No, no. The sons of the guards. See that one there? (points to a 
little pudge boy flailing away) That's my son, Danie. It's a club. Lieutenant Smit. 
Smit comes over. 
SMIT Sir? 
VON ZYL We have room for one more on the squad? Smit looks down at PK. 
SMIT He's a little small, Kommandant. VON ZYL We'll build him up then. 
SMIT Yes, sir.   But I really don't have anyone  to spare to teach him right now.   You know, with the tournament  coming up. 
VON ZYL There must be someone. 
Smit looks around the hall. 
63   HIS POV                                                   63 
A crumpled, old BLACK MAN, a lifer with broken, bandied legs and a fighter's flattened face, wiping the floor, picking up used towels. 
64   BACK TO SCENE                                             64 
SMIT Piet. 
GEEL PIET comes shuffling over, properly submissive. 
GEEL PIET (BLACK MAN) Yes, sir. 
SMIT You teach this boy basics, and you teach him good or I knock your black head flat, you hear? 
GEEL PIET I teach him best I know, baas. 
SMIT We train every day. First thing in the morning. Miss two trainings, you're gone. 
PK Yes, meneer. 
SMIT Come tomorrow.     See this old kaffir. 
PK Yes, meneer.     Thank you, meneer. VON ZYL Lieutenant, a word? 
The two men step off to the side. GEEL PIET Don't worry, little baas. Little can beat big any day. First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart. You can remember that? 
PK Yes, sir. GEEL PIET No, no. Don't never call me sir. 'Specially in front of the guards. 
PK What should I call you? 
GEEL PIET Piet.   Geel Piet. 
COACH Kaffir.   Towels. Geel Piet assumes his submissive posture again. 
GEEL PIET Okay, baas.    Coming, baas. He winks at PK and shuffles off.     A BELL SOUNDS. 
CUT TO: 
65   EXT. CARNIVAL                                             65 
A bell at the top of a strongman's game sounds. A big Boer farmer, mallet in hand, roars in triumph, swinging the mallet again and ringing the bell again. 
66   ANGLE ON PK AND MARIA                                     66 walking through the carnival, munching popcorn. 
MARIA You took a big chance talking to my father the way you did. 
PK Not really. Going in I was behind on points with him. I'm English. I attend a politically suspect school. I'm a boxer. 
MARIA He likes boxers. 
PK All men like boxers. But not for their daughters. So I had to find some way to make an impression. 
They get on line for the Ferris wheel. 
MARIA You could have picked a more agreeable topic. PK And made much less of an impression. Talk to someone about their passion. Even if they disagree they'll remember you. It was really the most logical strategy if you think about it. 
MARIA Do you spend hours thinking about how to deal with me, too? 
PK Days. MARIA Know what I think? (beat) 
PK moves Maria and Morrie off down the stairs. 
MARIA Do you box too, Morrie? 
MORRIE Do I look that daft? 
PK Morrie's the brains of the operation. 
MORRIE He means the bank. Your boyfriend has a great head for literature but none for finance. 
They exit the staircase. 
75   THEIR POV - ACROSS THE WAY - NGUNI                        75 
in the shadow of the alley stands, smoking a cigarette. 
76   BACK TO SCENE                                     76 
PK (in Zulu) I see you, Nguni. 
NGUNI I see you, P.K. 
They talk across the narrow street. 
NGUNI You have heard my request? 
PK Yes.    Why do you make it? 
NGUNI A woman has thrown the sacred ox bones. She has made a fire and read the smoke. 
PK What did she read? 
NGUNI That the Onoshobishobi Ingelosi who is a chief must fight the one who one day will be a chief. 
PK But it's not true that I'm a chief. 
NGUNI Who knows what is true and what is not. The legend of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is very powerful among the people. They see you box the Boer and always you win. They have heard the stories from Barberton. The people live with little hope. They must see if the spirit of the boy still lives in the man. PK And   if I lose? If the spirit of the   Onoshobishobi Ingelosi does not   exist in me anymore, then what will   they live with? 
NGUNI Less hope.   But still they must 
see.   It is our way. 
At that moment a spotlight blinds them. A police car comes up the alley, stopping in front of them. The POLICE exit, threatening. POLICE #1 What's this here? 
Maria is gripped by fear.     Morrie is cautious, unmoving. PK An old family servant, Officer. From home. We just ran into each other. 
POLICE #2 Papers, man.   Come on, be quick. Nguni reaches into his pocket. 
POLICE #1 Where you coming from? PK Gym, sir.   I train there. 
POLICE #1 And you? 
MORRIE I'm his manager. 
The Police look at each other and share a laugh. 
POLICE #2 (to Maria) And you're the sparring partner, hey? 
The Police laugh. Police #2, satisfied Nguni's papers are in order, hands them back. 
POLICE #2 You have an hour to curfew and a long way to go, kaffir. Be off. NGUNI (subservient) Yes, baas. Going right now. 
Nguni moves off, no semblance of the proud man in his gait. 
PK 
Nguni. 
Nguni turns. 
PK I'll do it. 
Nguni smiles and disappears into the night.    PK watches him go. 
CUT TO: 
77   EXT. DEVILLIERS SCHOOL                                      77 
PK and Maria stand by the tree set to climb over the wall. 
MARIA I'm scared for you, PK. 
PK Solly's a great teacher. He wouldn't put me in a fight I couldn't handle. 
MARIE I mean about how involved you are with the black people. That scares me. 
PK Because you don't understand them. MARIA No I don't. PK If you did you wouldn't be so scared. You ever have a conversation with a black person? MARIA Of course. 
PK Besides a servant. 
Maria's silence is her answer. 
PK You should sometime. 
GEEL PIET Not possible. The kommandant never allow the people to have such a thing. 
DOC He'll think it's a concert for him and the brass. But we'll know, ay? And the people will know. 
PK He'll never let black be with white here, Doc. 
DOC If the black is part of the 
orchestra, like the piano, he will. 
GEEL PIET But the people have no instruments in this place, big baas. 
DOC They have their voices. Each tribe a different voice, a different language -- all singing together. It is brilliant, no? 
PK Except the tribes don't trust each other. They don't even talk to each other. 
DOC (crestfallen) Oh. This is correct.    This stupid hatred. 
GEEL PIET They will do it for you, kleine baas. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. You bring the tobacco. You write the letters. You put clothes on their children's bodies and food in their bellies. All you do is ask and they all sing for you. 
DOC He's right. Wunderbar.    You are the smartest of us all. Geel Piet smiles as he lifts the watering pot to exit.   A truncheon stops him. All turn to Sergeant Bormann. 
BORMANN A kaffir smarter than all of us? You are a strange German, Professor. 
DOC That little maniac with the moustache in Berlin you admire. He is the strange German. And soon kaput, I hope. 
BORMANN If that's true you'll not be long for this place, eh, Professor? 
DOC No, Sergeant.    God willing. 
BORMANN And you, too, little Rooinek.     But you, kaffir, Hitler comes or goes... 
He takes Geel Piet's hand. 
BORMANN You are going to stay with me. 
He forces Geel Piet's hand closer and closer to a cactus with long thorns. 
BORMANN And I will find out all your secrets once your friends are gone. One slip... 
He pushes Geel Piet's hands onto the cactus needle.        Geel Piet does not cry out. BORMANN I have you. 
He lets go of Geel Piet's hand.     Geel Piet removes it from the cactus, bloodied. 
BORMANN Get out of here. 
Geel Piet takes his watering can and goes. 
BORMANN You see, Professor, they are not like us. A white man would scream bloody murder. 
Doc and PK glare at Bormann.    He smirks and walks away. PK (V.O.) As the weeks went by and the date for the concert grew closer, my life was a whirlwind. PK and Geel Piet appear before various tribal leaders, talking, agreeing, shaking hands. 
PK (V.O.) Having obtained the cooperation of all the tribal groups, we set about instructing them. Four men from each tribe were taught the 
intricacies of their group's parts. They were the choral leaders responsible for teaching the others. 
PK and Doc instruct. Doc plays the piano. PK leads the singers. Geel Piet turns the pages for Doc. 
PK (V.O.) At night the prison hummed with the men in their cells practicing. 
CUT TO: 
83   EXT. PRISON TOWER                                         83 
Nervous guards patrol as the SOUNDS of the prisoners singing wafts through the air. 
CUT TO: 
84   INT. BOXING ROOM                                               84 
Geel Piet instructs PK. 
P.K. (V.O.) My boxing instruction accelerated as well. It was as if Geel Piet was trying to give me every bit of boxing knowledge he had before we parted. And always from the corners and shadows Bormann watched and waited. Bormann watches PK and Geel Piet from the door of his room, his truncheon beating idly against his leg. 
CUT TO: 
85   INT. RING                                                      85 
A photographer sets up a group picture of the boxing squad -- kids and guards. Geel Piet stands off to one side, OUT OF FRAME. 
PK (V.O.) Our boxing squad, the Barberton Blues, won the State Championship with a perfect record. I won at 100 lbs. It was my first championship. It made me want 
more. 
The group disperses. PK beckons the photographer to wait. He grabs Geel Piet and forces him to stand, much to the little man's protestations, for a photo of the two of them. As the picture is taken Geel Piet has the widest smile imaginable. 
86   INT. PRISON YARD - NIGHT                              86 The guards, all in crisp uniforms, patrol nervously, truncheons at the ready. The towers bristle with guns as hundreds of black prisoners file into the yard. 
PK (V.O.) Finally the night of the concert arrived. The prison atmosphere, normally tense, was keening. Each prisoner entering the yard is searched. It was prison policy to keep tribal rivalries boiling. Divide and conquer. The policy of control. 
PK (V.O.) (CONT'D) This was to be the first time in the history of the South African prison system that the tribes were allowed to mingle. And if trouble came, it would be the last. 
All the prisoners are seated on the ground behind Doc, who is raised with the piano on a small stage. Guards surround the prisoners -- a solid, edgy border encasing a black center. The front of the yard is filled with seats on which sit the Kommandant, his wife, assorted prison brass, politicians, and a smattering of the local Afrikaan Hierarchy. PK is overseeing the seating of the prisoners when Doc comes up to him. DOC Have you seen my page turner? 
109   PK                                                         109 
struggles to mount the fifth rock. He clings to it, wet, exhausted, as the water pummels him. 
CUT TO: 
110   REFEREE                                                        110 
REFEREE ... seven... eight... nine... 
PK rises.    The crowd goes wild.      The Referee holds up six fingers. 
REFEREE How many fingers? PK Six. REFEREE Where are you? 
PK In a fight behind on points. 
REFEREE Okay.   Continue. 
Mandoma rushes in for the kill. PK feints and comes up under one of Mandoma's punches, burying a body shot into his gut. Mandoma grunts and backs up. PK pursues him. Mandoma tries to recover. He throws another big punch. PK ducks under it and puts two more hooks into Mandoma's stomach. Mandoma starts to back up for the first time in the fight. PK boxes, jabbing, feinting, pushing Man- doma around the ring, taking control. Mandoma, heading for exhaustion, throws another big punch in desperation. PK hits him with three punches in return. Mandoma swings again with a last desperate effort, and PK buries the Solly Goldman thirteen into every part of his body. PK steps back and with his last punch, puts Mandoma down. The crowd goes silent. The Referee counts Mandoma out. He raises PK's hand. Still, the crowd is silent. 
MORRIE We're in the shit now.      Nice knowing you, Solly. 
He and Solly look around at       the somber black faces flick- ering in the shadows of the       ring light. PK looks  down at Mandoma in silence. Mandoma        rises unsteadily. He  stands in front of PK, staring into       his eyes, and then he raises PK's arm above his head. 
MANDOMA Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. The crowd goes wild, chanting, singing over and over as PK and Mandoma stand in center ring, arms raised. 
111   EXT. DEVILLIERS SCHOOL - PRE-DAWN                             111 
PK stands with Maria by the tree they use to climb over the wall. In the b.g. Solly and Morrie wait in the car. MARIA The Seniors Dance is two Saturdays from now. I would like it if you could escort me. PK Maria Marais with a rooinek at the Senior Dance? What will people think? 
MARIA They'll think what they think and I'll think what I think. 
PK And what is that? 
Maria touches his face.   Her eyes soften. 
MARIA I think I love you. 
PK swallows hard.   They kiss and embrace.     PK caresses her face. 
PK I would be honored to be your escort. 
Maria beams. MARIA I didn't doubt it for a minute. 
Solly HONKS the HORN. PK kisses Maria once more. 
PK I'll give you a boost. PK stirrups his hands. Maria boosts up to the first branch of the tree. She crests the wall. 
MARIA Thank you for tonight.    You were great. 
She smiles and drops down behind the wall.     PK runs back 
toward the car. 
CUT TO: 
112   EXT. PRINCE OF WALES SCHOOL - DAWN                               112 
Solly's car pulls up opposite the gate. 
CUT TO: 
113   INT. CAR                                                         113 Morrie is sleeping in the back seat.         Solly and PK are sitting in the front. 
SOLLY When you and your manager first came to me with that meshuganah idea to be welterweight champion of the world you did not have a big believer here. But I gotta tell you. Now you do. In London lives Benny Rosen, the greatest trainer in the world today. When you go to your Oxford I give you a letter to Rosen. Whatever I can't do for you, he can. 
PK Thanks, Mr. G. 
Solly pokes Morrie awake. 
SOLLY And I give the address of a very good bookmaker. Teach you also a thing or two. Now, go on back to being fancy-schmancy English gentlemen. I'm proud of both of you. 
PK and Morrie exit the car and run back to the school. 
114   EXT. CAMPUS                                                      114 
As PK and Morrie jog toward their dorm a VOICE stops them from behind. 
ST. JOHN (V.O) Gentlemen. 
PK and Morrie stop cold.      They turn to St. John, up early 
for his daily constitutional. 
MORRIE You're up early, sir. 
ST. JOHN Best time for walking. 
PK Best time for running too, sir. MORRIE Have to put in the roadwork, sir. You know, keep those legs strong. 
St. John eyes the bruise on PK's cheek. 
ST. JOHN Yes.   Quite a fresh bruise there. 
PK It's a permanent obligation. Every Saturday night... (beat) It starts tonight. 
Maria cannot believe what she is hearing. 
MARIA You're breaking up with me. 
PK No. 
MARIA Then what could be so important that it takes all your Saturday nights? 
PK I really can't say. Maria starts to cry.   She throws her arm around him. 
MARIA 
P.K., I love you.     Please don't go away. 
PK I'm not going away. MARIA Yes you are.   I can feel it. 
PK I'm not.   I'm just tutoring. 
Maria pulls back. PK I started a school... (beat) ... for Gideon Mandoma and some others in the seniors library. 
Maria's sadness turns to anger. 
MARIA I'm losing you to a bunch of kaffirs? 
PK You're not losing anything. MARIA No? Are you escorting me to the dance? Are you going to see me on the only free night they give us? PK Maria, this is important to me. MARIA And my life's important to me. Damn you. 
She runs off in tears.   A pained PK doesn't attempt to go after her. 
FADE TO. 
118   EXT. CLIFF FACE                                            118 
On an escarpment high above the dense green rainforest cover, PK and Doc move along the sheer cliff face with photographic equipment and rucksacks. 
PK notices Doc's labored breathing and slow movements. They reach some small cacti growing out of the side of 
the cliff in full bloom. 
DOC (breathing hard) Ach.   You see how beautiful? PK You ever hear of glycerine, Doc? 
DOC Mr. Going-To-Oxford-Smarty-Pants. Of course I know about glycerine. Triglycerine. Biglycerine. Monoglycerine. What do you want to know? 
PK Why you don't use it. It's only a little pill under the tongue. 
DOC Tongues were not made to put little pills under. When I have to start with that, I become something else. 
PK Well, until you become something else, the little pills would make this easier on your heart. 
A CLAP of THUNDER cuts into their conversation.   Thick roiling rain clouds appear suddenly. DOC Little pills or no little pills -- we don't find cover, we both turn into something else. 
Lightning splits the sky.   Rain begins to fall, pelting the escarpment. DOC Look for a cave. Always in this kind of rock there is caves. Quick! Quick! PK starts to move horizontally across the cliff face like a spider on a wall. Doc follows. The rain becomes torrential. 
PK turns to look back at Doc. 
DOC Don't look at me.     Go! 
PK forges ahead. 
119   HIS POV - OPENING                                         119 some 20 yards ahead. 
120   BACK TO SCENE                                                   120 PK I've found something. The rain is so heavy PK can barely make out Doc behind him. When he can, he sees the old man pause, breathing hard. PK makes his way back to Doc. Halfway there, Doc waves him forward and starts to move. PK reaches the small opening and slips in. 
CUT TO: 
121   INT. SMALL CAVE                                                 121 
PK stoops in the small cave, dripping wet. A moment later Doc's foot appears at the entrance. PK helps him in. Doc slumps down, exhausted. PK You okay? 
Breathing too   hard to reply, Doc shakes his head in the affirmative.    PK looks out at the rain forming a sheer wall of water   outside. He turns to Doc, who is getting up, flashlight   in hand. PK What are you doing? 
DOC Exploring. 
PK Why don't you just rest? 
DOC Plenty time for resting when I am something else. Look. 
He strikes a match.    A wind from inside the cave blows it side to side. 
DOC When does a cave have wind?    This 
is more than some little cave, my friend. 
Doc crouches down and follows the beam of his flashlight to the rear of the cave where there is a small opening. He shines the light into it. 
DOC Here.   See?   There is a passage. 
Before PK can say anything else, Doc has wriggled through the small opening. 
PK, a bit peeved, takes his own flashlight and follows. 
CUT TO: 
DOC Come try it. 
128   WIDER ANGLE                                                128 
PK (short) No.   That's all right.   Can we go? 
DOC We have only just gotten here. What's the matter, P.K.? 
PK All day long you've been talking about becoming something else, about dying. You never talked about dying before. 
DOC I'm 87 next month.   It's natural. 
PK Not to a sixteen-year-old it's not. It's painful. 
Doc realizes what PK is saying. DOC You are right. I am sorry. Sixteen-year-old ears should only hear life. Doc starts to whistle "The Marriage of    Figaro" by Mozart. The RESONANCE of the WHISTLING off the    crystal sounds beautiful, exotic. Doc beckons PK to     join in with him. PK does so, hesitantly. Then pleased     with the sound and the feeling, more fully. 
Doc and PK exit through the stalactites, whistling. CUT TO: 
129   INT. DOC'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                 129 PK and a very exhausted Doc enter. Doc sits down heavily on the bed while PK, shrugging off his rucksack, heads right for the small kitchen area. 
PK I'll just set you up with some coffee here, so in the morning you won't have to bother making it. 
He begins to prepare the coffee. 
PK I didn't mean to tell you what 
you can and can't talk about back in the cave today. I guess I just don't like to think of you being... (beat) PK (CONT'D) ... becoming... (beat) ... something else. I know it's natural law and it's the way it is with everybody... (beat) I just wish it weren't with you. 
There is no reply. 
PK Doc? 
PK turns to Doc, dead asleep, still sitting up. PK goes over and gently lays the old man down. He removes his boots and throws a blanket over him. PK blows out the kerosene lamp and goes to exit. He is about to hang their two rucksacks on two hooks by the door when Doc's voice turns him. 
DOC P.K.? 
PK I'm here, Doc. 
DOC The crystal cave will be our secret, ja? PK Whatever you say. 
DOC Promise. 
PK I promise. 
DOC Ja.  Good. I rest a little. (beat) The heart of Africa, P.K. 
Doc lays down. 
DOC The heart. 
He is asleep when his head hits the pillow. 
PK watches Doc's chest, washed in moonlight, rise and fall lightly. A sudden sadness falls over him. The corners of his mouth turn up in a bittersweet smile. He finishes hanging the rucksack and exits. 
CUT TO: 
130   EXT. PRINCE OF WALES BACK GATE - NIGHT                       130 
PK and Morrie stick close in the shadows. PK looks at his watch and then twenty feet away to the locked gate. 
MORRIE Christ! If someone would have told me this is where I'd be on a Saturday night, last term of my senior year, I'd call them batty. (beat) You know, you're going to owe me for the rest of your life on this one. PK That all? I figured you'd hold me to it longer. 
MORRIE You get the insider friend's rate. PK Thanks, mate. 
A black groundskeeper comes walking along, seemingly on his duties. 
PK pokes Morrie. 
131   THEIR POV - GROUNDSKEEPER                                    131 
walks up to the gate. He looks left and right, then quickly unlocks it. He walks away. 
132   BACK TO SCENE                                                132 
PK and Morrie advance.    PK opens the gate.   As he does, 
Gideon Mandoma, followed by 15 men and 5 women, enters. 
MANDOMA I see you, P.K. 
PK I see you, Gideon. 
MORRIE Let's get inside before the whole bloody world sees us. 
MANDOMA Morrie. 
He clasps Morrie's hand, first in a traditional hand- shake, then in an African handshake. Mandoma smiles. 
MANDOMA You some great friend. 
Morrie is taken by his sincerity. 
PK Let's go.    Stay to the fence. 
CUT TO: 
139   INT. SCHOOL GYM                                           139 
PK is working on a speed bag. Morrie comes running in with two open letters in hand. 
MORRIE We made it!   We made it! 
He thrusts one of the letters at PK. 
MORRIE Sorry. I couldn't bear the suspense after I read mine.   I had to open it. PK looks at his letter. 
MORRIE Three months and we're out of here. 
PK You're out of here. 
MORRIE What the hell are you talking about? 
He snatches PK's letter. MORRIE (reading) 'Dear sir. It is our pleasure to inform you that you have been accepted to matriculate at Trinity College, Oxford,' etc., etc., etc. PK It says nothing about the scholarship. 
MORRIE A technicality. 
Another BOY comes over. 
BOY St. John wants to see you two in his study. 
MORRIE Good news travels fast. 
PK I'll get showered and changed. 
BOY He said to come as you are. Immediately. 
The Boy runs off, leaving PK and Morrie wondering. 
CUT TO: 
140   INT. ST. JOHN'S STUDY                                       140 
PK and Morrie enter to a somber St. John. PK Wanted to see us, sir? 
ST. JOHN Yes.   Come in.     Close the door. 
As the door closes, BRIGADIER JOHANNES BRETYN, a quiet but formidable man, comes into their line of vision. Trouble is in the air. ST. JOHN This is Brigadier Bretyn from the police department. 
Bretyn just nods his head. 
ST. JOHN He has come to deliver, in person, an order to close the Saturday school. 
PK Why? 
BRETYN Because it is illegal. 
MORRIE We're only teaching them how to read and do sums. 
BRETYN You don't have certification to do that. 
PK Prince of Wales is a certified school. 
BRETYN Yes.   But not certified for that 
sort of thing. 
PK Can he do this, sir? 
BRETYN Of course I can do it. Would I be here if I couldn't? Come now meneer headmaster. Let's end this now. I have a full day ahead of me still. 
St. John meets Bretyn's steely eyes.   He cannot hold the man's gaze. 
ST. JOHN (resigned) The Saturday school is to be disbanded until further notice. 
BRETYN Thank you, meneer headmaster. Your cooperation in this matter is very appreciated. Good day. 
Bretyn goes to exit. 
PK You know it can't go on like this forever. 
St. John tenses. 
BRETYN What can't? 
PK What you're doing. 
BRETYN I'm just doing my job. And if you'll take some advice, you should just do yours. 
Bretyn exits. 
MORRIE Is that really the end of it, sir? 
ST. JOHN For the moment I'm afraid it is. PK If we let them get away with it on our own grounds, it will never 
change.   It'll just get worse. 
ST. JOHN History disputes you. 
The groundskeeper opens the door to the basement.       The boys enter. 
CUT TO: 
146   INT. BASEMENT                                                 146 
PK switches on a light switch to a cavernous space cluttered with old desks, blackboards and church pews. 
PK This is a church. Didn't you ever hear of the Christian concept of sanctuary? 
MORRIE Yes. But I'm not the one who has to respect it. 
PK Even the Boer has limits, Morrie. 
MORRIE I'm sure he does, but I'd still like to see a big bolt on the inside door. 
CARETAKER Mr. Levy? 
The Caretaker pulls a large deadbolt out of his pocket, with a smile. 
CUT TO: 
147   INT. SOLLY'S GYM                                              147 
Mandoma and PK, both with protective equipment on, square off. 
SOLLY Now move it nice and easy, the both of you. Time. 
PK and Mandoma circle.   Mandoma throws a jab. 
PK They want us to close the school. 
PK counters. 
MANDOMA I know. 
Mandoma lays in a combination. 
PK We are still game. 
PK throws a combination. 
MANDOMA So are we. 
SOLLY Would you two find some other time to chat. This is a boxing ring, not a social club. 
Mandoma and PK start boxing in earnest, both smiling. 
CUT TO: 
148   EXT. DEVILLIERS SCHOOL - NIGHT                                 148 
A watchman makes his rounds. He passes by     Maria's window. When he is gone, PK appears from     behind a tree. He taps on the window. Maria comes to the     window and sees him. Her face lights up. She opens      the window. 
PK (cool) I was in the neighborhood. Maria puts her finger to her lips and waves him in.       PK climbs through the window. CUT TO: 
149   INT. ROOM                                                      149 Maria points to the door. 
She puts a record on her phonograph. She turns to PK and embraces him fiercely, holding on tight. MARIA (whispering) They're sending me away to school in Pretoria. I told my father I wouldn't go. He said if I didn't he'd see they arrest you and ruin your chances. I couldn't let him do that. 
150   ANGLE ON PK'S PAINED FACE                                       150 
as he holds Maria. PK When do you go? 
MARIA Next week. (beat) I want to make love to you, P.K. PK's eyes fill with her words.     She releases him.    They look at each other. 
MARIA I do. 
PK leans forward and kisses her, awkward, as if for the first time. As their lips part, their breath shortens. Maria moves forward slowly, lifting PK's hand to her breast. He touches it. The heat builds. Passion overwhelms them. They begin to make love. 
CUT TO: 
151   INT. ROOM - LATER                                         151 
Maria sleeps peacefully in PK's arms on her small bed. PK lies awake, staring at the ceiling. He rises quietly so as not to wake her. He pulls on his clothes, gently brushes a wisp of hair away from her eyes, kisses her forehead, and exits through the window into the breaking dawn. 
CUT TO: 
152   EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - NIGHT                                     152 PK and Morrie    stand by a side gate near the athletic field looking    alertly about. The gate  opens. The Africans led    by Mandoma come through.  PK and Morrie greet them.     When they are all through Morrie closes the gate and    runs after them. 
CUT TO: 
153   EXT. ATHLETIC FIELD - STANDS                                    153 A man with a walkie-talkie sits in the shadows, watching 25 people run across the athletic field. He talks into his walkie-talkie. 
CUT TO: 
154   INT. CHAPEL BASEMENT                                        154 
The light switch is  on. The four lights above the center of the room  illuminate a classroom area -- desks set up in neat rows  with stools, a blackboard. The other furniture has  been piled high against the walls on either side of the  room where the light does not reach. PK If you'll all be seated we can begin. 
The Africans head toward their desks.    PK turns to Morrie. 
PK So far so good. 
Two other police beat Morrie from behind.   He goes down once again under their brutal clubs. 
157   BACK TO SCENE                                             157 
PK turns just as another club comes for his head. He slips past the blow and punches out his assailant with a lightning combination. As the man falls another cop charges from behind. 
MARIA PK! 
PK turns off-balance. Maria leaps. The club cuts through the air. Maria is caught flush on the forehead as she comes between PK and the club. She falls to the floor dead. PK swings a stool with all his might, breaking the cop's face open. PK Maria! 
PK drops to the fallen girl's side. He is frantic at the sight of her gaping bloody wound and the sight of her open blank eyes. The battle raging around him recedes before his pain and rising rage. All at once he explodes, screaming like a madman. 
He leaps at Bretyn and bangs one punch after another into the startled man. Bretyn's face is broken over and over against PK's fists. Still PK keeps pounding blow after blow into the fallen man. 
Three cops descend on PK and beat him mercilessly until he drops to the floor, unconscious. 
Mandoma is hit hard and goes down. 
The few Africans left fighting go down before the withering assault of clubs, fists, and boots. 
158   EXT. CEMETERY - DAY                                       158 
Maria's funeral. 
Hundreds of Afrikaaners are gathered. 
Daniel Marais and his wife stand by the open grave, grieving, as the minister reads the final prayers. 
The coffin is lowered. 
Daniel Marais steps forward and shovels the first dirt down after it. As Marais looks up he sees PK standing behind the mourners, 20 yards off. His anger replaces grief. 
Marais advances towards PK, clutching the shovel as a weapon. Several MEN restrain him. MEN Daniel.    No. Marais glares at PK. 
All of a sudden a thousand African voices cut through the air, SINGING songs of mourning. CUT TO: 
159   EXT. CEMETERY WALL                                        159 Thousands of Africans and a smattering of whites have gathered outside the cemetery. The singing rises from them. 
Gideon, Morrie, St. John and Solly stand in front of the crowd. 
CUT TO: 
160   EXT. CEMETERY                                             160 Marais glares at PK, tears of rage in his eyes. 
PK stands his ground. 
Marais turns away, back to his daughter's grave. 
PK stands, tears streaming down his cheeks, as the SINGING ENGULFS the SCENE. 
161   INT. PK'S ROOM - DAY                                      161 
PK sits at his desk filling out application forms. 
Morrie enters.   He picks one up off the desk and looks at it. 
MORRIE 
(surprised) You're applying to South African universities? 
PK In case the scholarship doesn't come through. 
MORRIE Why are you so bloody stubborn? You don't belong in a South African university any more than I belong in the priesthood. Will you take my father's loan? 
PK takes the applications back just as a TELEGRAPH DELIVERY BOY comes to the door. 
BOY There a Mr. P.K. here? 
MORRIE It's your scholarship. Morrie grabs the telegram. 
BOY Sign here.   Odd name -- P.K. MORRIE What's your name? 
BOY Waldo. 
MORRIE You're not one to talk about names. 
Morrie scribbles his signature and proceeds to open the telegram. PK snatches it away from him. He pulls the telegram out. His face falls to worry. 
MORRIE What's it say? 
PK Doc's missing. 
CUT TO: 
162   INT. DOC'S HOUSE                                         162 
PK walks through the small house followed by Commandant Von Zyl. Nothing is out of place. 
VON ZYL Since his pneumonia last year I've had one of the men drop by once a week to see if he needed anything. Of course you know the professor. He never did. PK looks out at the cactus garden, watered now by drip irrigation. VON ZYL At the beginning of the week he wasn't home so I decided to drop by myself. Waited a whole day here. When he didn't come back I sent search parties. After three days I sent the telegram. Seven days is a long time for him to be gone. Do you have any ideas where he went? 
PK looks at the pegs where the rucksacks hang.    There is only one hanging. 
CUT TO: 
CUT TO: 
173   EXT. PRINCE OF WALES SCHOOL - MORNING                     173 
PK comes up to the school gates. He notices two plain- clothes police cars just across the road. PK enters with a growing sense of uneasiness. 
CUT TO: 
174   INT. PK'S DORM                                            174 PK hurries down the hall to his room. He opens the door to Daniel Marais, sitting at his desk, reading from his fiction-filled notebook. 
MARAIS You're a very good writer. The subject matter is a little inflammatory but the style is interesting. 
PK What are you doing here? MARAIS I came to inform you that you will not be receiving aid from the National Scholarship Fund. Neither will you be admitted to any of the South African universities. Here are your applications back. 
He hands PK the applications as he rises. 
MARAIS I told you when you came to my house. I am first a member of my tribe and I will defend it any way I know how. 
He and PK glare at each other, implacable enemies. Marais exits. 
PK looks out his window, thinking. 
175   HIS POV - MARAIS                                          175 
walking off across the campus. 
MORRIE (O.S.) They don't want you here any more than they want me. 
176   BACK TO SCENE                                                176 
PK turns. 
MORRIE Take the hint. Screw the scholarship. Come on. Let's leave. 
PK If I leave or if I stay in South Africa it's because I choose to, not because they choose for me. 
He takes a small handbag, throws a few books into it and Doc's picture. He picks up his notebook and packs that too. He goes to exit. MORRIE Where are you going? 
PK Save my place at Oxford. 
PK exits the room. 
Morrie chases after him. MORRIE P.K., goddammit! 
He grabs PK, stopping him. PK Save my place. Morrie's grip releases. 
PK walks out. 
FADE TO: 
177   EXT. COPPER MINE - DAY                                       177 
Hundreds upon hundreds of black laborers and white mine workers descend into the mines. A milling mass of disenfranchised humanity come to work the underground hell of the copper mines. 
PK exits the management shack and walks through the crowd. 
PK (V.O.) Dear Morrie.     Here is how it works. 
The copper of the mines in Northern Rhodesia is mined below ground. All day a behemoth of a man, a diamond driller, works a stope which is like the top of a funnel. 
CUT TO: 
178   INT. STOPE                                              178 
A huge diamond driller at work drilling and blasting in the stope. 
PK (V.O.) Setting charges and drilling the rock. The only way for the raw ore he takes from the sides of the stope to get to the haulage below is to pass through the spout of a funnel and out the steel doors at the bottom -- sixty feet down. 
CUT TO: 
179   TRAPPED DOORS AT BOTTOM OF FUNNEL                             179 
opening, as the haulage cart fills with ore and moves away on the track in the tunnel below. 
PK (V.O.) Halfway down the spout area is a set of six tungsten steel bars called a grizzly which catch all the rocks too large to make it through the funnel mouth to safe haulage. 
180   ANGLE ON GRIZZLY                                              180 
six bars with men working them. 
PK (V.O.) These are taken care of by a grizzly, an explosives expert whose job it is to keep the ore flowing, and since when the ore doesn't flow, neither does the money, working the grizzly is a very crucial and therefore very well-paid position. Three months' 
work earns a year's    stay at Oxford. Yesterday,     on receiving my blasting license    from the School of Mines, I    signed on to work the bars for a    year. CUT TO: 
181   INT. MINER'S BAR                                            181 A crude place where the bar runs the back length of the room and the bare concrete surroundings offer nothing in the way of diversion from the main purpose of being there -- to drink hard and long. 
THOMAS, a harsh, ruddy-faced Welshman, the School of Mines instructor, downs a drink, pours another and looks up at PK. 
THOMAS Are you crazy?     To sign on for a year? PK You said I was the best you ever taught, sir. 
THOMAS And you are, boyo. The absolute best. 
THOMAS (CONT'D) But even the best doesn't survive a year on the bars. Down in that damn tube the luck runs out sooner than later. You may be a genius at reading the rock but you ain't no fuckin' fortune teller. 
any shared interests. But they do exist and even flourish. Except between the drillers and their grizzlies. No one wants to get too close to the man who might be buried at night by what you drilled loose in the day. 
CUT TO: 
185   EXT.   MINE - NIGHT                                          185 
PK inspects his nightly quota of gelignite charges and fuses. 
Five Africans, all serious faces, keep their eyes firmly on PK. PK (V.O.) The Africans who come here looking for work are driven by a different desperation--drought, famine, locusts. 
Satisfied with the equipment, PK nods for the box to be closed. 
ELIJAH, his head man, closes the boxes. 
PK (V.O.) They come and risk their    lives to send money back home to    the families sitting on the    barren farms, starving, waiting    for death or rain. When the boxes are closed the other five men in the crew lift them and follow PK out. 
CUT TO: 
186   INT. MINE ELEVATOR                                           186 
The elevator descends into the mine. PK (V.O.) Superstition runs deep in them, so a good grizzly man attracts a good crew. On the bars, the longer you live the luckier you are. And by association -- they are. 
CUT TO: 
187   INT. TUNNEL                                               187 
PK and his crew make their way through a narrow tunnel and come to the grizzly. It is dark. The only light comes from the lamps attached to their helmets. Boulders litter the bars. 
PK and Elijah are onto the bars first.   Their light beams move along across the boulders. 
ELIJAH Baas.   Baas. 
PK turns to Elijah. His lamp catches Elijah's face which is looking upward. PK looks up. 
His POV in the narrow bands of light: a bunch of rocks big and small, packed into the funnel. His face grows dim. 
CUT TO: 
188   CLOSEUP ON HANGUP OF ROCKS                                188 
Five feet across a rock wall with stones of all sizes blocking up the funnel's mouth. 
PK (V.O.) Hangups are the worst of it. When the top of the funnel gets blocked up and the ore won't flow. 
PK scales the sheer rock wall of the funnel, his shirt packed with explosives. 
PK (V.O.) The only way to unblock it is to set a charge to blow inward. And the only way to do that is to set the charge in mud, which means climbing up to the mouth of the stope and coming face-to-face with the devil. 
PK reaches the hangup. He works at taking a prepared parcel of gelignite sticks and jamming them carefully into a crevice. As he does the hangup creaks deeply, shifting, ominous. A few rocks fall. PK freezes, holding his breath. 
CUT TO: 
189   THE AFRICANS                                               189 
peeking out of the safety shaft below, terrified. Elijah remains on the grizzly bars, his light shining on PK. 
CUT TO: 
190   PK                                                         190 
holding very still, listening. PK (V.O.) Sometimes the rock doesn't need the provocation of explosives. Sometimes the earth shifts... (beat) a pebble moves... (beat) you talk too loud... (beat) and in the moment before you are turned into something else by fifty tons of rock you understand why it is called grizzly. 
PK finishes setting the charge. He scales down the wall. A large rock is expelled from the hangup and comes bouncing down the sides to the funnel, just missing PK, crashing through the bars below. 
PK freezes. Elijah holds his breath.   The crew in the safty tunnel quakes. 
Nothing happens. 
PK comes down the rest of the way. He takes the cordtex rope dangling from the bomb and inserts a fuse. He nods to Elijah. Elijah lights a cheesa stick. He hands the glowing stick to PK. PK waves towards the tunnel. One of the Africans sounds the WARNING WHISTLE. Two blasts followed by two blasts. PK nods for Elijah to be off. Elijah stands his ground. 
ELIJAH I wait for you, baas. 
PK lights the fuse. Elijah takes off like a scared rabbit for the safety of the shaft. PK is right on his tail. 
The fuse travels quickly toward the bomb. 
Elijah trips. PK, coming behind him, grabs him by the collar and flings him into the safety tunnel, diving after him a second later, just as the BOMB EXPLODES. A few rocks come down, but nothing else. The Africans look at each other with real apprehension. 
PK rises from Elijah and peeks out. 
191   HIS POV - HANGUP                                           191 
is still in place. 
PK studies the hangup, stepping out onto the grizzly, listening, looking. The hangup groans. The Africans are petrified at the mouth of the tunnel. PK stops midway on the bars. He studies the hangup intently, then picks up a rock. Choosing a target he heaves the rock with all his might toward the hangup and runs like hell. The rock hits the hangup. PK springs off the grizzly, right into the Africans as the hangup thunders down. Dust and small rocks fill the safety tunnel. 
When the avalanche has stopped PK raises himself off the Africans. They are all covered in dust but smiling and babbling, happy to be alive. 
PK peeks out and up. He signals to Elijah who hits the LL-CLEAR WHISTLE. Three blasts. PK Let's clean her off and call it a night, hey? 
Happy, the Africans lift shovels and crowbars to clear the bars. As they pass PK they touch him reverentially as one would an icon. PK (V.O.) The Africans think the longer you survive the luckier you are. And the luckier you are the longer you survive. I know there's something inherently wrong with their logic. Still, I'm beginning to see their point. Especially with less than six months to go. CUT TO: 
192   INT. PK'S HUT - NIGHT                                   192 
CUT TO: 
197   THE AFRICANS                                             197 peeking out of the safety tunnel, scared. 
CUT TO: 
198   ELIJAH                                                   198 
scared, but standing his ground. 
CUT TO: 
199   PK                                                       199 
making it back onto the bars. He carefully makes his way to Elijah as the hangup sends some pebbles down. 
PK She's playing with us tonight. Fuse set? 
Elijah nods. 
PK holds his hand out for the cheesa stick. Elijah lights the flare. He goes to hand it to PK. PK notices Elijah's hands shaking. He sees the fear in Elijah's eyes. PK Go on. 
ELIJAH I stay with you, baas. 
PK That's an order. 
Elijah, released from his responsibility, retreats quickly. 
PK stands holding the flare, a little distracted by Elijah's fear, wondering. Elijah sounds the BLAST WHISTLE. 
PK One... two... three. A MUFFLED BLAST comes from the other side of the hangup deep in the stope. PK freezes, confused, and then a SECOND BLAST goes off. The hangups starts to give. And ANOTHER BLAST. 
PK lights his own fuse and runs like hell over the bars toward the tunnel. The hangup, loosened by the explosions inside, gives before PK's bomb ignites. The rock is crashing down. PK races the rock. The tunnel is within sight. 
The men yell for him to jump. 
PK is about to leap when a rock hits the bar, bounces up, and catches him in the stomach. He  loses his balance and goes over the side as the hangup comes crashing down. PK hits the wall of the lower funnel -- once, twice -- and then lands in the soft stuff -- the shale flake, cushioning the steel doors below. 
200   HIS POV                                                    200 
against the wall of rock. 
A rock ledge carelessly left when the funnel was originally built. 
PK rolls under it. A moment later fifty tons of ore in large chunks and small chunks and dust comes crashing down, burying PK. He lays there, semiconscious, buried but alive. 
CUT TO: 
201   INT. TUNNEL                                                201 
The falling rock has stopped. The   funnel is full. The bars as well. Elijah and the crew   look out of the safety tunnel tremulously. Elijah   looks up the stope. His light catches a man at the very  top of the stope climbing out. 
Elijah pulls the WARNING WHISTLE.   Five blasts over and over. 
CUT TO: 
202   INT. HAULAGE                                               202 
Men hear the WHISTLE and stop work. 
CUT TO: 203   INT. LASHERS                                               203 
Men shovelling ore stop shovelling. 
CUT TO: 
204   INT. TUNNEL                                                204 
Rasputin is timbering with his crew, fitting huge timbers into place, making new haulage, when he hears the whistles. RASPUTIN PK! 
He yells at his crew to grab the tools and he runs off down the tunnel. 
CUT TO: 
205   INT. PK'S GRIZZLY                                       205 
A deep hole has been dug through    the rock piled in the lower funnel. Rock comes up in     a bucket and is carted off. Timber is passed down. A      crowd of miners, black and white, watch and help where    they can. 
MINER #1 He's dead.   No doubt about it. 
MINER #2 You give me a fair odds on ten quid? MINER #1 Four to one. 
MINER #2 Make it a sixer and you got me. 
MINER #1 You're on. 
MINER #2 Anyone else?   Six to one he's dead. 
CUT TO: 206   INT. HOLE                                                     206 
Rasputin works like a man possessed, piling rocks in the bucket to be passed up, shoring timbers as they are passed down. 
CUT TO: 207   INT. BARS                                                     207 
PK turns the corner and is gone. 
CUT TO: 214   EXT. MINING TOWN                                               214 
PK walks through the huts of the drillers, massive to a man. Most of them are coming off shift. Some of them rub their temples, trying to soothe the pain of the powder. 
PK comes to one hut.     He knocks.   No answer.   He knocks again. A DRILLER comes by. 
DRILLER Who you lookin' for? PK Botha. The driller from stope number five. 
DRILLER He's at the bar. 
PK Thanks. 
DRILLER I wouldn't disturb him. There's a reason he's there and we're here. 
The Driller enters his hut.     PK absorbs the warning. 
CUT TO: 
215   EXT. MINER'S BAR                                               215 
The three BARTENDERS stand outside along with a dozen other customers. 
BARTENDER #1 PK.   You're not going to go in, 
ja? 
PK Is Botha the driller in there? 
BARTENDER #2 Ja. Always we give him one hour alone before we open. You don't know this because you work at night, but it is the rule. FRITZ Ja.   In one hour it is pffft. He motions a man falling on his face. 
PK regards them for a moment and then enters the bar. 
CUT TO: 
216   INT. BAR                                                  216 
In the murky light one hulking figure sits at the bar, drinking shot after shot of whiskey. 
PK enters and walks across the room to the massive man. 
PK Are you Botha? 
Botha does not turn around. 
BOTHA Ja. 
PK I'm PK.   I worked your grizzly. 
BOTHA Ja. PK Why'd you try to kill me? 
Botha turns slowly to reveal his face, swollen with anger and drink. He tears the short sleeve off his left arm, revealing a crudely tattooed swastika. 
BOTHA Because I missed the first time, rooinek. 
PK Jaapie Botha. 
Botha rises drunkenly.     PK backs up. 
BOTHA You remember, rooinek. PK Botha.     It was thirteen years ago. 
BOTHA Because    of you they expelled me. Because    of you my father beat me. Threw me    out from the farm. Because    of you. 
He throws back another drink and rushes PK with a roar. 
PK sidesteps and heads for the door. Botha gets there first and bolts it. 
PK Botha. We've made a lot of money working together. Let the past be the past. 
BOTHA You ruined the country, all you rooineks. You come and ruin the country. 
He rushes PK again.     Again PK sidesteps. 
PK No, Jaapie Botha. It's hate ruining the country. BOTHA Jaah. 
He swings at PK.     PK ducks. PK Boer hate. 
BOTHA Our country. 
At that moment the powder headache strikes. Botha bellows, grabbing his head staggering backward. 
PK runs for the door. As he reaches it a table slams against it, thrown halfway across the room by a powder-mad Botha. 
PK jumps out of the way at the last minute. 
Men's faces begin to appear at the iron-meshed windows. People start to bang at the door. 
PK, realizing there is no talking to Botha now, does his best to stay out of the charging giant's way. 
Botha charges him. PK sidesteps and hits him with a left hook. The punch has no effect. Botha swings out wildly. PK easily dances away. Botha picks up another table and heaves it at PK. PK jumps to avoid it, but trips on an overturned stool. He goes down. The miners outside, crowding three deep, yell and shout. People start to make bets. 
Botha charges PK as PK scrambles up. Botha swings. The blow glances off PK's shoulder and sends him flying, spinning over a table. Botha leaps at PK, driving him into the wall. PK grimaces, sagging. Botha picks him up and starts to squeeze him to death in his massive arms. PK, his hands free, starts to pound on Botha's ears with his palms. Botha screams as the powder head- ache accelerates through the top of his skull. He drops PK. PK rolls away and swings a stool at Botha's midsection. Botha is driven back. PK goes to swing the stool again. Botha catches it as if it were made of balsa. He rips it out of PK's hand and flings it back at him, charging behind it. 
