THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES 
by 
Billy Wilder and I.A.L Diamond 
THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES 
FADE IN: 
BRASS PLAQUE - DAY 
Engraved on it are the words: COX & CO., Bankers. Reflected in its shiny surface are double-decker red buses, and other present-day London traffic. 
INT. BANK VAULT - DAY 
An iron gate opens, and two bank guards come in. One of them switches on the lights. On the shelves which line the walls are dusty strong-boxes, document cases, wrapped packages, etc. The guards move along the shelves searching for something. 
WATSON'S VOICE Somewhere in the vaults of a bank in London is a tin dispatch box with my name on it. It is not to be opened until fifty years after my death. 
The guards find a battered tin dispatch box with the name JOHN H. WATSON, M.D., painted on it. They remove it from the shelf, set it down on a table. The box is tied with heavy cord, the knots sealed with wax. Strung on the cord is the key. 
WATSON'S VOICE It contains certain mementos of my long association with a man who elevated the science of deduction to an art -- the world's first, and undoubtedly most famous, consulting detective. 
While one of the guards dusts the box off, the other cuts the cord with a pair of scissors. He then inserts the key in the lock, turns it, raises the lid -- revealing the dusty contents of the box. 
OVER THIS, SUPERIMPOSE THE MAIN TITLE. 
The guards now start to remove the objects from the box, one at a time: -- A daguerreotype of Holmes, standing, and Watson, seated, in a a stiff studio pose; Holmes' deerstalker hat, his curved pipe, his magnifying glass; Watson's stethoscope, Holmes' revolver; a small enamel sign with the number 221B; a pair of handcuffs; 
a sheet of music paper which is unrolled to disclose a violin piece composed by Holmes, titled FOR ILSE von H.; A pocket watch, the back of which is opened to reveal a photograph of Gabrielle Valladon; a signet ring bearing the initials S.H. -- under which is concealed a compass; a worn morocco case -- inside which is an early-model hypodermic syringe; a crystal ball which, when shaken, produces a snowstorm - and when the snow settles, we see a bust of Queen Victoria. 
OVER THESE OBJECTS, THE REST OF THE CREDIT TITLES ARE SUPERIMPOSED. 
The last item out of the box   is a thick stack of manuscript paper, bound with   green ribbon. The guard undoes the ribbon, dusts off   the top page, as CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSER.  Written in   ink, in the cursive penmanship of the period, is   the following paragraph: 
To my heirs: 
In my lifetime, I have recorded some sixty cases demonstrating the singular gift of my friend Sherlock Holmes -- dealing with everything from The Hound of the Baskervilles to his mysterious brother Mycroft and the devilish Professor Moriarty. But there were other adventures which, for reasons of discretion, I have decided to withhold from the public until this much later date. They involve matters of a delicate and sometimes scandalous nature, as will shortly become apparent. 
OVER THIS, WE HEAR THE VOICE OF DR. WATSON, reading the text. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
YORKSHIRE LANDSCAPE - DAY 
A passenger train of the late Nineteenth Century is chugging through the early morning mist. 
WATSON'S VOICE It was August of 1887, and we were returning from Yorkshire, where Holmes had solved the baffling murder of Colonel Abernetty. 
INT. COMPARTMENT - MOVING TRAIN - DAWN 
There are but two passengers in the compartment -- sitting by the window, facing each other. In fact they are dozing. One wears a deerstalker and an Inverness cape; the other is in a dark overcoat and a black bowler, a furled umbrella between his legs, a medical bag on the seat beside him. The rest of their luggage is on the racks above. They are, of course, SHERLOCK HOLMES and DR. JOHN H. WATSON. This being 1887, they are thirty- three and thirty-five respectively. 
WATSON'S VOICE You may recall that he broke the murderer's alibi by measuring the depth to which the parsley had sunk in the butter on a hot day. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY 
A hansom cab, with Holmes' and Watson's luggage strapped to the rack on top, is proceeding down the busy street. 
WATSON'S VOICE He was the most brilliant man I have ever known -- and I dare say people have envied me for sharing that flat with him in Baker Street. 
The cab draws up   in front of 221B. The front door opens and MRS. HUDSON,   a plump, motherly woman in her fifties, wearing an apron,   hurries down the steps. She greets Holmes and Watson   warmly as they alight. 
WATSON'S VOICE I'll grant you he was stimulating -- but he could also be moody, unpredictable, egocentric, and more often than not, completely infuriating -- as our landlady, Mrs. Hudson, can attest -- bless her kind soul. 
The cabbie   starts to unload their luggage. As Holmes, Watson and   Mrs. Hudson proceed inside, CAMERA TRAVELS UP THE FACADE   OF THE BUILDING, past the number 221B, to the bay window   on the second floor. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY 
It's all there -- the fireplace, the coal scuttle, the Persian slipper with the tobacco; the velvet wing chair, the basket chair with the writing-arm, the couch with the cushions; the sideboard with the tantalus and the gasogene; the acid-stained deal-topped table with Holmes' chemical equipment on it, the dining table, the small Moorish table; the bookshelves and the violin case; the gas fixtures and the oil lamps; the dumbwaiter connecting with the kitchen in the basement; and Holmes' desk, piled high with papers, clippings, research material, etc. 
Holmes is pulling up the window shades. Watson has removed his hat and coat, and is putting his medical bag down on the sideboard; the cabbie, having deposited their luggage, is just leaving. 
MRS. HUDSON I do wish you'd give me a little more warning when you come home unexpected.    I would have roasted a goose -- and had some flowers for you. 
HOLMES My dear Mrs. Hudson -- criminals are as unpredictable as head-colds. You never quite know when you're going to catch one. 
He has picked up a dagger, starts opening his mail, which is on the dining table. 
MRS. HUDSON I'll unpack your bags. 
MRS. HUDSON Missing? 
HOLMES Something very crucial. (picks up a small feather) You have been tidying up against my explicit orders. 
MRS. HUDSON Oh, I made sure not to disturb anything. 
HOLMES Dust, Mrs. Hudson, is an essential part of my filing system. By the thickness of it, I can date any document immediately. 
MRS. HUDSON Some of the dust was this thick. 
She demonstrates with her thumb and forefinger. 
HOLMES (promptly) That would be March, 1883. 
He blows the feather away. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING 
START on Holmes' foot, operating a bellows. CAMERA PANS UP to the top of the chemistry table, on which an elaborate apparatus of brass, glass and rubber tubing has been set up. Inserted into the ends of the rubber tubes are half a dozen cigarettes, four cigars of different shapes and colors, and four pipes, all lit. Activated by the bellows, they are puffing away like mad, wheezing loudly and filling the screen with smoke. Seated at the table is Holmes, in shirt-sleeves. Occasionally he knocks off an ash onto a glass slide, studies it under a microscope. 
Watson, in a dressing gown, is sitting in the chair with the writing arm, documenting the latest Holmes adventure for Strand Magazine. The open mail has now been affixed to the center of the wooden mantelpiece, with a dagger. 
Mrs. Hudson is clearing the dinner dishes from the table, and loading them onto the shelf of the dumbwaiter. The accumulation of smoke in the room makes her cough. 
MRS. HUDSON How can you stand this? Why don't you let me air the room out? 
WATSON Please, Mrs. Hudson -- he's working on a definitive study of tobacco ash. 
MRS. HUDSON (drily) I'm sure there's a crying need for that. 
WATSON In our endeavors, it is sometimes vital to distinguish between, say, the ashes of a Macedonian cigarette and a Jamaican cigar. Sor far he has classified 140 different kinds of ashes. 
MRS. HUDSON All of which will end up on my rug. 
She is now pulling on the rope which lowers the dumbwaiter. 
WATSON That'll be enough, Mrs. Hudson. 
MRS. HUDSON (heading for door) All right. If you gentlemen want to stay here and suffocate... 
She exits, shutting the door. For a while, the two go on working. Then Holmes rises abruptly from the chemistry table. 
HOLMES She's right.    I am suffocating. 
WATSON Let me open a window. 
HOLMES Not from lack of air -- from lack of activity. Sitting here week after week -- blowing smoke rings -- staring through a microscope -- there's no challenge in that. 
WATSON Personally, I consider it a major contribution to scientific criminology... 
Holmes has opened his violin case and taken out his fiddle. 
HOLMES How I envy you your mind, Watson. 
WATSON You do? 
HOLMES It's placid, imperturbable, prosaic. But my mind rebels against stagnation. It's like a racing engine, tearing itself to pieces because it's not connected up with the work for which it was built. 
He has tucked the violin under his chin, starts to improvise a nervous pent-up melody. There is nothing amateurish about it -- he plays quite well. 
Watson resumes working on his manuscript. Suddenly the music stops. Watson looks up apprehensively. Holmes has put down the violin, and is crossing to the sideboard. He opens Watson's medical bag, takes out a bottle of cocaine, starts toward his bedroom. Watson pushes the writing arm to the side, rises from his chair. 
WATSON Holmes -- 
Holmes   pays no   attention, continues into the bedroom. Watson   crosses   to the open door. Inside the bedroom, Holmes   has put   down the cocaine bottle on the washstand, and is   rolling   up his left sleeve. 
WATSON Holmes, where is your self-control? 
HOLMES Fair question. 
From a drawer he takes a morocco case, opens it, removes a hypodermic syringe. 
WATSON Aren't you ashamed of yourself? 
HOLMES Thoroughly.    But this will take care of it. 
He has removed the stopper from the cocaine bottle, and inserting the hypodermic needle into it, starts to draw up the liquid. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY 
WATSON (removing diploma from wall) Actually, I'm rather looking forward to it. Leading a normal life again. Regular office hours -- nine to three -- and if occasionally there's an emergency call in the middle of the night, I know it's going be appendicitis and not an ax murder. Let Holmes go mucking about in the fog and the sleet, looking for a bloodstained collar-button out on the moors, with some demented hound snapping at his behind -- 
From the living room comes the sound of a revolver shot. Mrs. Hudson screams and Watson looks off in alarm. Then he races out of the room, diploma in hand, followed by Mrs. Hudson. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 
As they burst into the room, they see Holmes sitting on the stool beside the chemistry table, a revolver in his hand. He has shattered one of the narcotics bottles on the mantelpiece, and is aiming at a second one. 
MRS. HUDSON Mr. Holmes... 
Holmes fires, smashing the second bottle. As Mrs. Hudson takes a step forward, he waves her away with the gun. 
HOLMES Please, Mrs. Hudson.    You're in my line of fire. 
Watson jerks Mrs.   Hudson back as Holmes lets go with another shot. The    bullet disposes of the third bottle, splattering glass   and liquid all over the place. Holmes rises calmly from   the stool, crosses to the desk, puts the revolver away   in a drawer. 
MRS. HUDSON (outraged) How many times have I told you I will not tolerate pistol practice on my premises? I should have evicted you when you shot them holes in my wall. 
She points up to a spot near the ceiling. Neatly traced in bullet holes are the initials V.R., with a small crown above them. 
HOLMES Merely celebrating Her Majesty's Golden Jubilee. 
MRS. HUDSON Look at that mess you made -- 
Watson is looking at Holmes with a little smile on his face. 
WATSON It's all right, Mrs. Hudson. I'll clean it up -- (hands her the diploma) -- while you unpack my things. 
MRS. HUDSON Unpack? 
HOLMES You heard him. 
A bewildered Mrs. Hudson goes back into the bedroom. Watson crosses to the fireplace, picks up the whiskbroom and the coal shovel, starts cleaning up the broken glass. 
WATSON Thank you, Holmes. I know how difficult it must've been for you -- 
HOLMES Not really. It was simple choice between a bad habit and a good companion. 
WATSON You've made me very happy. 
HOLMES I've often been accused of being cold and unemotional. I admit to it. And yet, in my cold, unemotional way, I'm very fond of you, Watson. 
WATSON I know that. But one likes to hear these things occasionally. 
He notices the violin, which has been splattered with the liquid from the shattered bottle, picks it up. 
WATSON Look at this. Covered with that nasty stuff. I'd better dry it off. 
HOLMES I'll do it. 
He takes the instrument, and dabbing it with a handkerchief, carries it toward the violin case. 
WATSON For a moment, I was worried that you were going to let me walk out -- that you weren't even going to try to stop me. 
HOLMES Now, Watson -- you know there's nothing I wouldn't do to keep you here. 
With a side-glance at the busy Watson, he opens the violin case. Neatly stashed away around the edges are the three original bottles of narcotics. The ones he shot up, of course, were substitutes from the chemistry set. He places the violin carefully among the bottles, closes the case, snaps the locks. As he moves off, we STAY on the violin case. 
WATSON'S VOICE It was not the first not the last time he tricked me like that. Normally, I was inclined to forgive him... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 
Watson, in his dressing gown, is sitting at the table, finishing his coffee. In front of him is a letter, on blue note-paper, and a pair of theatre tickets. 
WATSON'S VOICE But on one occasion, he did something that was so utterly unforgivable, that I would gladly have murdered him -- had it not been for my saintly disposition. 
Watson sets down his coffee cup, picks up the letter and the tickets, rises from his chair. He starts to pace -- addressing Holmes, who is off-scene. 
WATSON Why are you being so stubborn, Holmes? Why won't you go? It's the final performance of the Imperial Russian Ballet -- the house has been sold out for months -- 
He moves towards the door of -- 
HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAY 
Holmes is sitting in a hip-bath with a high back, soaping himself. Watson appears in the doorway. 
WATSON -- seats are going for a guinea apiece -- 
HOLMES That's precisely it. Why should someone send up two free tickets? Anonymously, at that. 
WATSON Whoever sent them must be in great distress. The note says -- 
HOLMES This is Dr. Watson. 
ROGOZHIN Pleased to meet you. (seating himself behind them) You are enjoying? 
WATSON Immensely. 
ROGOZHIN (abruptly) Tell me, Mr. Holmes, how is your health? 
HOLMES My health?   Better consult my doctor. 
WATSON (to Rogozhin) Oh, he's in excellent shape. 
ROGOZHIN (to Holmes) Any insanity in your family?   Diabetes? Asthma? 
HOLMES Would you mind telling me what this is all about? 
ROGOZHIN Certainly.   Madame Petrova, she has problem. 
HOLMES Could you be more specific? 
ROGOZHIN Certainly not. 
WATSON A liason with a crowned head? Compromising letters? Blackmail? 
He glances toward the stage. 
STAGE 
The pas-de-deux finished, to a rousing ovation. 
BOX 
Rogozhin rises, turns to Holmes. 
ROGOZHIN After performance, there will be little celebration backstage -- and Madame requests your presence. 
WATSON We'd be delighted. 
ROGOZHIN (to Watson) You are invited, also. 
With a parting look he exits, pulling the plush curtains closed. 
CUT TO: 
STAGE 
The performance is over, the curtain is up, the party is on. Tables have been set up, with caviar, vodka and champagne. The members of the orchestra are now playing balalaikas, and crew and cast (the ballerinas still in costume, the male dancers in tights) seem in high spirits. 
Holmes and Watson, in silk hats with canes, appear from the wings, stop, survey the scene. Watson's eyes are shining with anticipation. In contrast, Holmes' face is sober and quizzical. 
Rogozhin spots the two, detaches himself from a group, hurries over to join them. 
ROGOZHIN There you are, Mr. Holmes. Madame is expecting you in her dressing room. Dr. Watson, you will amuse yourself meanwhile -- we have vodka, caviar, girls. 
WATSON No, thank you. 
ROGOZHIN No girls? 
WATSON No caviar. Makes me break out in hives. 
Rogozhin turns to a group of ballerinas, claps his hands. 
ROGOZHIN Dievushki. Siude, siuda, dievushki. Posnakomtes s docktorum Watsonom. 
Half a dozen ballerinas descend on on Dr. Watson. They are giggling and chattering in Russian. Rogozhin leads Holmes off, while Watson takes in the bevy of beauties around him. 
WATSON Any of you girls understand English? 
GIRLS Nyet. 
WATSON Not one single word? 
GIRLS Nyet. 
WATSON In that case, I don't mind telling you that you all have lovely po-pos. 
He pats a couple of the po-pos with his cane. 
BACKSTAGE 
Rogozhin is leading Holmes toward Madame Petrova's dressing room. 
ROGOZHIN Mr. Holmes, I must prepare you -- this is no ordinary case. 
HOLMES (gallantly) I must say she doesn't look thirty-eight. 
ROGOZHIN That is because she is   forty-nine. (he hands her a   glass of vodka, with an   exaggerated smile) So Madame has decided   to leave ballet and spend life bringing up   her child. 
HOLMES How admirable. 
ROGOZHIN (hands him vodka) Problem now is to find father. 
HOLMES Oh?   Is he missing? 
ROGOZHIN Correct. 
HOLMES And that's why you called me in? 
ROGOZHIN Also correct. We must have father, because without father, how can there be child? 
HOLMES I see. The whole thing is still in the planning stage -- 
ROGOZHIN Correct again. Madame would like child to be brilliant and beautiful. Since she is beautiful -- she now needs man who is brilliant. 
Holmes' eyes wander slowly toward Petrova.    She raises her glass. 
PETROVA Za zdorovie. 
ROGOZHIN (raising his glass) Za zdorovie. 
HOLMES Za zdrovie. 
Petrova and Rogozhin down their vodka bottoms up.    Holmes takes one swallow, then stops. 
HOLMES What's in it? 
ROGOZHIN What does it taste like? 
HOLMES Red pepper. 
ROGOZHIN That's what's in it. 
While Rogozhin refills Petrova's glass and his own, Holmes takes another tentative sip. 
PETROVA (to Holmes) Kogda mi smozhem dvinutsa v putj? 
HOLMES I beg your pardon? 
ROGOZHIN Madame wants to know how soon you can be ready. 
HOLMES Ready? 
ROGOZHIN To leave for Venice. All arrangements have been made. You will spend one week there with Madame... 
HOLMES Well, this is all very flattering. But surely there are other me -- better men -- 
ROGOZHIN To tell you truth, you were not first choice. We considered Russian writer, Tolstoi -- 
HOLMES That's more like it.   The man's a genius. 
ROGOZHIN Too old... Then we considered the philosopher, Nietzsche -- 
HOLMES Absolutely first-rate mind... 
ROGOZHIN Too German... And we considered Tschaikowski -- 
HOLMES Oh, you couldn't go wrong with Tschaikowski -- 
ROGOZHIN We could -- and we did.   It was catastrophe. 
HOLMES Why? 
ROGOZHIN You don't know? Because Tschaikowski -- how shall put it? Women not his glass of tea. 
HOLMES Pity, that. 
PETROVA (to Rogozhin) Skazhite jemu chto je otchen dovolna etim resheniem. 
ROGOZHIN Madame is very happy with final choice. 
HOLMES Madame mustn't be too hasty.   She must remember I'm an Englishman. 
ROGOZHIN So? 
HOLMES You know what they say about us. If there's one thing more deplorable than our cooking, it's our love-making. We are not exactly the most romantic of people -- 
ROGOZHIN Perfect. We don't want sentimental idiots -- falling in love, committing suicide. One week in Venice -- she goes back to St. Petersburg with baby -- you go back to London with fiddle. 
By now some of the girls who are in on the secret are whispering to the male dancers in tights. Their reaction is slightly different. They are seeing Watson in a new light. And before Watson knows what's happening, he has been abandoned by all the girls, and is joined first by one pair then another pair of male dancers, till he is dancing only with gay guys in tights. It gradually dawns on Watson that there is something wrong with this state of affairs. After some difficulty, he breaks away from them. 
WATSON Hold on!    Just a moment! 
Spotting Rogozhin, he crosses to him.   The girls shrink away at his approach. 
WATSON (bewildered) What's going on? What happened to the girls? 
ROGOZHIN Why?   Do you not prefer it this way? 
WATSON What way? 
ROGOZHIN You don't have to pretend. Mr. Holmes told us everything -- about you and him -- 
WATSON About me and him? 
ROGOZHIN Come now, no need to be bashful. We are not bourgeois. Maybe with doctors and detectives is unusual -- but in ballet, is very usual. 
WATSON What is? 
ROGOZHIN Caprice of Mother Nature. Look at Pavel and Mischa and Boris and Dmitri -- 
Watson looks around at the boys in tights, who are standing in a half-circle, grinning at him insolently. It is beginning to dawn on him. He pales. 
ROGOZHIN -- And Ilya and Sergei -- (breaks off, rocks his hand back and forth) Sergei -- half and half. 
He pours himself another vodka. Watson grabs the glass away from him, downs it with a gulp. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT 
In contrast to the frenetic ambiance of the back-stage party, the room seems doubly placid. Holmes, his dinner coat replaced by a smoking jacket, is sitting in the wing chair, having a quiet pipe after the evening's peculiar adventure. Only the desk lamp is lit. From the street, there is the sound of hurried, angry footsteps approaching the house. Holmes turns his head languidly -- he knows who is coming. 
EXT. BAKER STREET - NIGHT 
An enraged Watson, cane and opera glasses in hand, and the flower still behind his ear, is jogging down the center of the deserted street. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Holmes rises casually, twists the wing chair so that its back is to the door, crosses to the lamp on the desk, turns the wick down. From off comes the sound of Watson's key rattling in the front door lock. 
STAIRCASE - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT 
The front door opens and Watson storms into the vestibule. 
WATSON Holmes! 
He races up the stairs and across the landing, flings open the door of the flat. 
WATSON Holmes! 
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Watson, grim and breathless, stands in the open doorway. Over the back of the wing chair, he sees smoke curling up from Holmes' pipe. 
WATSON There you are, you wretch! You rotter! You blackguard! Of all the vile, unspeakable fabrications. What do you have to say for yourself? 
No answer from Holmes. We now see -- but Watson does not -- that the chair is occupied by a section of Holmes' smoking machine, with the pipe attached. 
WATSON Don't just sit there -- speak up, man! 
Still no answer -- just a little pipe smoke drifting up from the wing chair. Incensed, Watson raises the opera glasses, tosses them toward the chair. There is a loud thud, the pipe falls to the floor, then there is silence. Watson suddenly becomes concerned. 
WATSON Holmes...?   Are you all right, Holmes? 
He approaches the chair apprehensively, shoves  it aside -- and there on the floor is the smoking machine,  still wheezing slightly. Watson picks it up, and his   eyes travel to Holmes, standing in a shadowy corner,  working the bellows with his foot. 
HOLMES From the sound of your footsteps, I gathered that you were not in a particularly amiable mood. 
WATSON (with renewed fury) How could you do a dastardly thing like that to me? What the deuce were you thinking of? 
He dashes the smoking machine to the floor. 
HOLMES Watson, you  have my most abject apologies.   But have you ever been cornered by  a madwoman?  It seemed like the only way  to get out of it without hurting her  feelings. 
WATSON What about my feelings? And my reputation? Do you realize the gravity of what you have done? The possible repercussions? 
HOLMES So there'll be a little gossip about you in St. Petersburg... 
WATSON These things spread like wildfire. I can just hear those malicious whispers behind my back. I'll never be able to show my face in polite society... 
And if it ever got back to my old regiment -- you don't know the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers -- they'll strike me off the rolls -- they'll cut off my pension... 
MRS. HUDSON (looking up) There's a cabbie here -- he says you owe him two-and-six. 
WATSON For what? 
CABBIE (to Watson) For the fare, guv'nor. The young lady doesn't have any money. 
WATSON What young lady? 
CABBIE This one. 
He reaches out the door, pulls in the young lady in question. She is in her early thirties, with strikingly handsome features, but at the moment she is somewhat worse for wear. She is wrapped in a blanket, her hair is wet, and there is a bruise on her temple. 
She is wearing and wedding ring and her name, we will subsequently learn, is GABRIELLE. 
WATSON Well.  What have we here? (he starts down the stairs) Who are you, miss? What happened to you? 
GABRIELLE (slight accent) I don't know. 
CABBIE That's all she keeps saying -- I don't know, I don't know. 
The violin music stops o.s.   Watson has now reached the foot of the stairs. 
WATSON Where did she come from? 
CABBIE From the river. I was driving down the Embankment, just below Westminster Bridge, and there she was in the water -- drowning. 
Holmes appears on the landing above, violin and bow in his hand. 
CABBIE It wasn't easy, guv'nor -- what with the cold water -- and her fighting me -- 
HOLMES (from the upper landing) Why did you bring her here? 
CABBIE Because I found this in her hand -- (gives a square of soggy cardboard to Watson) -- 221B Baker Street -- that's right, isn't it? 
Watson examines the cardboard, nods. 
HOLMES (to Gabrielle) Young lady -- what did you want at this address? 
GABRIELLE (looking up, trying to focus) I do not remember. 
WATSON (to Holmes) Rather perplexing, wouldn't you say? 
HOLMES Rather. 
CABBIE Well, gentlemen, you want her? -- it's two-and-six -- or shall I throw her back in the river? 
MRS. HUDSON Mr. Holmes.   You can't let him -- 
HOLMES Watson, you'd better accept delivery. 
Watson fishes some coins out of his pocket, hands them to the cabbie. 
WATSON Keep the change. 
CABBIE Thank you, guv'nor. 
He snatches the blanket off Gabrielle, revealing that her dress is clinging to her damply. 
CABBIE No extra charge for the use of the horse- blanket. 
He exits into the street, shutting the door.    Gabrielle hugs herself for warmth. 
WATSON You're shivering, my dear. (he puts his arm around her) 
Come along. Let me get you out of those wet clothes. 
He starts to lead her up the stairs. 
EXT. BAKER STREET - NIGHT 
The cabbie has tossed the blanket into the hansom, and is mounting the driver's seat. Across the street, a man steps out of the fog into a pool of light cast by one of the street lamps. He is a craggy-faced Prussian of about fifty, and his name is VON TIRPITZ. He looks up toward the Holmes flat. As the hansom makes a U-turn and comes abreast of him, he hops into the cab. The hansom disappears into the fog. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT 
Watson is leading Gabrielle to a chair by the fireplace. Holmes is putting his violin down on the table. 
WATSON Sit here, my dear. 
He settles her in the chair. Holmes comes over, plucks the square of cardboard from Watson's hand. 
WATSON She's suffering from shock and exposure. 
He starts to massage her wrists to restore her circulation. 
HOLMES Where is he? What are you doing in London? 
GABRIELLE I don't know. 
HOLMES When did you arrive from Brussels?     Where are you staying? 
GABRIELLE I don't know. 
HOLMES What happened at the river?   Think! Pensez! Concentrez vous! 
Gabrielle bursts into sobs. 
WATSON (stepping forward) That's enough, Holmes. I will not permit you to question her in this condition. (helps the sobbing Gabrielle out of the chair) Mrs. Hudson, put her to bed. My bed. (Mrs. Hudson gives him a look) I'll sleep on the couch. 
MRS. HUDSON Come, my dear. 
She puts her arm around Gabrielle, who is still crying, leads her into Watson's bedroom. 
WATSON I'd better mix her a sleeping potion. 
He gets a packet of white powder out of his medical bag, and during the following, stirs a spoonful into her tea- cup. 
HOLMES Watson, I think we should arrange to have her removed to a hospital. 
WATSON Under no circumstances. 
HOLMES She should have medical attention. 
WATSON She can get that from me. But more importantly, she must be protected -- there has already been one attempt on her life. 
HOLMES This temporary amnesia -- how temporary is it? 
WATSON It depends on the extent of the injury. It's like veils shrouding her memory. It could clear up in a few days -- or a few weeks. 
HOLMES Watson, this is a very small flat -- we don't want to clutter it up with women... 
WATSON Holmes, we've never had a case like this. A woman comes to us with a problem -- we don't know who the woman is -- and we don't know what the problem is. Don't you find that challenging? 
HOLMES Quite. But we can't afford to wait for those veils to lift -- we must break through them as quickly as possible. 
WATSON You   really feel it's that urgent? 
HOLMES I do. The sooner we solve the case, the sooner we can get rid of her. 
WATSON Oh. 
He picks up the cup of tea with the sedative in it, carries it toward the door of his bedroom. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BAKER STREET - DAWN 
The street lamps are still lit. A policeman, on patrol duty, is strolling along the sidewalk, swinging his truncheon. Suddenly he sees something up ahead. Alarmed, he ducks into the doorway of a building, flattens himself against the door. 
From the opposite direction comes a horse-drawn water- sprinkling wagon. The spray covers the sidewalks as well as the street. 
The policeman waits till the wagon is past, then steps out of the doorway relieved, resumes his patrol. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAWN 
Watson is asleep on the couch, covered with a blanket. He doesn't look as if he were in a very comfortable position. 
INT. HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAWN 
Holmes, in a dressing gown, is standing by the window, studying the square of cardboard with the green smudges on it. His bed has not been slept in. 
INT. WATSON'S BEDROOM - DAWN 
Gabrielle is asleep in Watson's bed. The door opens slowly, and Holmes looks in. He studies the sleeping Gabrielle for a moment, then quietly pulls the door shut. As the latch clicks into place, Gabrielle awakes and sits up in bed, her back to CAMERA. She is nude. 
GABRIELLE Emile? 
She starts to get out of bed. 
INT. HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAWN 
Holmes is back in his room, once more examining the cardboard by the light of the window. The door of Watson's bedroom opens, and Gabrielle comes out. 
GABRIELLE Emile? 
Holmes looks up as Gabrielle appears in the open doorway. 
GABRIELLE Emile?   Is that you, Emile? 
HOLMES Mrs. Hudson, why don't you go down to the kitchen -- get a towel -- and wipe that look of disapproval off your face. 
MRS. HUDSON Liberties -- in my house! 
She exits huffily. 
WATSON You can't really blame her -- I mean, the way it looks -- if I didn't know you better, I might suspect you'd taken advantage of the young lady. 
HOLMES As a matter of fact, I did take advantage of her... Would you hand me the butter- knife, please? 
WATSON Of course. 
He picks up the butter-knife from the table, suddenly turns back with a delayed reaction. 
WATSON You did what? 
HOLMES (taking butter-knife from him) Thank you. 
He starts to pry open the locks of the suitcase with the butter-knife. 
WATSON (spluttering) Holmes, this is reprehensible! Where are your professional ethics? Have you no sense of decency, no shame -- 
HOLMES None whatsoever. If you must know, I found her body quite rewarding. 
WATSON You cad! 
HOLMES Especially the palm of her right hand. 
WATSON I'd rather not hear about it! 
HOLMES Very well. Then I won't bother to tell you how I traced her suitcase. 
WATSON That's her suitcase? 
HOLMES Remember that piece of soggy cardboard with our address on it? It was a luggage ticket -- the number rubbed off on her hand. And since she must have arrived from Brussels by the boat train, I concluded that she had checked her belongings at Victoria Station. 
WATSON By Jove! If you're right, we should find a clue to her identity. 
Holmes has now forced open the locks. 
HOLMES Or at least a pink negligee with maribou feathers. 
He opens the suitcase, lifts out the top piece of clothing, holds it up -- a pink negligee with maribou feathers. 
HOLMES Voila! 
WATSON Let's see - what else is in here? 
They start sorting through the clothes in the suitcase. Holmes removes a tied bundle of letters. 
HOLMES Now we're getting somewhere. 
As he examines the envelope, Watson takes out a framed photo of a rather attractive man of fifty. 
WATSON Who do you suppose this is? 
Gabrielle appears from Holmes' bedroom wearing Holmes' dressing gown. She is unsteady on her feet and somewhat dazed. Holmes looks up. 
HOLMES Come in, Madame Valladon. (Gabrielle stops) You are Gabrielle Valladon. 
GABRIELLE Yes. 
HOLMES (holding up photo) And this is your husband, Emile Valladon? 
GABRIELLE Yes. 
Her eyes fall on the open suitcase. 
HOLMES Sorry to have ransacked your valise.     But since you came to us for help -- 
GABRIELLE Where am I? 
WATSON 221B Baker Street. 
GABRIELLE Oh, yes... (a beat, as she orients herself) Which of you is Mr. Holmes and which is Dr. Watson? 
HOLMES Dr. Watson is the handsome one. 
Watson, pleased, twirls the end of his mustache. Gabrielle sways slightly. 
HOLMES That's the way he affects most women. 
He helps her into a chair. 
HOLMES Jamaican, no doubt -- either Tropical or Golosina -- I'm not quite sure. 
He and Watson continue toward the study door. 
INT. STUDY - DIOGENES CLUB - DAY 
It is a very elegant room   -- shelves of leather-bound volumes reach to the high   ceiling, there are antique terrestrial and celestial   gloves, scientific instruments in polished brass, marble   busts of English statesmen. 
MYCROFT HOLMES is standing at a refectory table, with his back to the door, engaged in a curious operation. A dusty bottle of wine is held in an ingeniously engineered cradle. As he turns the crank, the bottle tilts forward gently, and he decants the wine into three glasses without disturbing the sediment. 
Mycroft is an impressive figure of a man, seven years older than Sherlock, impeccably dressed. Behind his snobbish airs and bantering manner, one senses tremendous reserves of strength and authority. 
The door opens, and Holmes and Watson enter. 
MYCROFT (without turning) Come in, come in, Sherlock -- Dr. Watson... Sit down. (Holmes and Watson seat themselves) You're looking very fit, both of you. 
WATSON Thank you. 
HOLMES (putting down hat and cane) And how are you, Mycroft? How's your gout? 
MYCROFT Under control. Except for the occasional twinge. 
He brings over two of the glasses of wine to Holmes and Watson. 
MYCROFT I have a treat for you -- a very old Madeira -- 1814. There are  only six bottles left in the world.  I have two of them, and am negotiating for a third. 
WATSON If you don't mind my saying so, anybody who's susceptible to gout shouldn't be -- 
Mycroft has moved back to the table and picked up his glass of Madeira. 
MYCROFT The last doctor who warned me about that was crossing Piccadilly, slipped on an orange peel, and was run over by a delivery van from the Fortnum and Mason. Your very good health. 
He and Watson sip their drinks, but not Holmes. 
HOLMES Why are you wasting this precious stuff on us? 
MYCROFT Well, I see you so rarely. How long has it been? Not since the case of the Greek interpreter. (to Watson) Isn't it ridiculous? Two brothers living in the same town... 
HOLMES In the same town, perhaps -- but not the same world. 
WATSON (taking another sip) Mmmm.    Superb. How old did you say it was? 
MYCROFT 1814.    One year before Waterloo. 
WATSON One year before Waterloo?    Think of that. 
MYCROFT You do know where Waterloo is, don't you, Doctor? 
WATSON Belgium, isn't it? 
MYCROFT Quite. (turning to Holmes) And speaking of Belgium, it has come to my attention that you are interested in the whereabouts of a certain engineer. 
HOLMES Yes, I am. 
MYCROFT Well, I can save you a lot of trouble. 
HOLMES I'd be grateful for any suggestion -- 
MYCROFT My suggestion is that you pursue it no further. 
HOLMES Any particular reason? 
MYCROFT Because it involves the national security. We are handling this matter ourselves. 
WATSON We?   Who's we? 
HOLMES The Diogenes Club, of course. 
MYCROFT I didn't say that. 
HOLMES I have always suspected that there was some underground connection between this stodgy and seemingly calcified establishment and the Foreign Office in Whitehall. 
MYCROFT That's neither here nor there. 
HOLMES It seems to me that The Diogenes Club is here, there and everywhere. When there are rumblings of revolt in the Sudan, an expedition subsidized by your club conveniently shows up to study the source of the Nile. When there is trouble along the Indian frontier, some of your fellow members pop up in the Himalayas, alledgedly looking for the Abominable Snowman. 
A YOUNG MAN in morning coat and striped trousers comes in, holding a telegram. Mycroft crosses to him. 
MYCROFT (to Watson) What a fertile imagination my brother has. At the age of five, by carefully observing a neighbor's house, he deduced that babies were brought not by the stork, but by the mid-wife in her satchel. 
WATSON As good an explanation as any. 
Mycroft has taken the telegram, and is coming forward with it. The young man clears his throat. 
MRS. HUDSON Did you ever try doing embroidery with a gun in your hand? 
HOLMES (taking gun from her) You'll be relieved to know it was not loaded. 
He starts up the stairs, followed by Watson. 
WATSON Holmes, you didn't answer my  question. Are you planning to disobey  Mycroft's orders? He's not just your   brother, you know. You'd be defying Her   Majesty's government... 
No reaction from Holmes. As they reach the landing, Gabrielle is waiting for them in the open doorway of their flat. 
GABRIELLE Any news?   Did you find out anything? 
INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY 
Holmes and Watson step inside. 
HOLMES Let's just say I know what the next step will be. 
GABRIELLE (anxious) Yes? 
HOLMES I want you to pack your things. 
GABRIELLE Where are we going? 
WATSON Holmes, let me caution you --- 
Holmes has put the gun down, and is crossing to one of the book-shelves. 
HOLMES (to Gabrielle) At 7:30 this evening, Dr. Watson and I are going to take you to Victoria Station, and put you on the boat-train. 
GABRIELLE The boat-train? 
WATSON Well, that's better. 
Holmes has taken a railway guide from the shelf and is consulting it. 
GABRIELLE You're sending me back to Brussels?   Is that it? 
WATSON Madame Valladon, you must understand... 
GABRIELLE (to Holmes, agitated) I came here to find my husband -- you were going to help me -- 
WATSON Yes, my dear. But circumstances have changed -- 
GABRIELLE The great detective! Well, maybe this case is too small for you -- 
WATSON On the contrary. It's being handled at a much higher level -- 
GABRIELLE Well, I won't go back to Brussels. Maybe you're giving up, but I'm not. (tears welling up in her eyes) I'm going to go on looking for him. And nobody's going to stop me -- even if they try to kill me. 
HOLMES (looking up from railway guide) Are you quite finished? If you recall, what I said was that we're going to put you on the boat-train -- I didn't say you were going to stay on it. 
WATSON She's not? 
HOLMES At 7:30, Mr. Holmes and Dr. Watson will be seen waving goodbye to Madame Valladon at Victoria Station. At eight-twelve, Mr. and Mrs. Ashdown accompanied by their valet John -- (a glance at Watson) -- will appear at Euston Station, and board the Highland Express to Inverness. 
WATSON Mr. and Mrs.... ? 
GABRIELLE (moving toward Holmes) Thank you. I'm sorry for what I said. (kisses him on cheek) 
HOLMES That's not necessary. 
GABRIELLE (smiling through tears) I'll go and pack. 
She hurries off toward Watson's room. 
WATSON (acidly) Maybe I should do it, since I'm the valet. 
Holmes replaces the railway guide on the shelf. 
WATSON Holmes, what exactly are you up to? 
HOLMES As you like to put it in your chronicles, the game is afoot. 
WATSON But what game? Are you really that interested in the Belgian engineer? 
Without answering, Holmes heads for his bedroom. 
WATSON Or the wife of the Belgian engineer? 
Holmes, by this time in his bedroom, shuts the door. Gabrielle reappears from the other bedroom, carrying a glove. 
GABRIELLE You don't like me very much, do you? 
HOLMES What did you say? 
GABRIELLE I didn't say it -- you did. According to Dr. Watson. 
HOLMES Oh. 
GABRIELLE He gave me some back issues of Strand Magazine. 
HOLMES The good doctor is constantly putting words into my mouth. 
GABRIELLE Then you deny it? 
HOLMES Not at all. I am not a whole-hearted admirer of womankind. 
GABRIELLE I'm not very fond of them myself. 
HOLMES The most affectionate woman I ever knew was a murderess. 
GABRIELLE Oh? 
HOLMES It was one of those passionate affairs -- at odd hours -- right in my laboratory. And all the time, behind my back, she was stealing cyanide to sprinkle on her husband's steak and kidney pie. 
GABRIELLE You mustn't judge all women by -- 
HOLMES Of course not. Only the ones I was involved with. And I don't just mean professionally -- kleptomaniacs, nymphomaniacs, pyromaniacs. Take my fiancee, for instance -- 
GABRIELLE Your fiancee? 
HOLMES She was the daughter of my violin teacher -- we were engaged to be married -- the invitations were out, I was being fitted for a tail-coat -- and twenty-four hours before the wedding, she died of influenza. 
GABRIELLE I'm sorry. 
HOLMES It just proves my contention that women are unreliable and not to be trusted. (a beat) Good night, Mrs. Ashdown. 
He pulls the curtain across his berth. 
GABRIELLE Good night, Mr. Ashdown. 
She closes her curtain, as the train whistle sounds. 
INT. THIRD CLASS CARRIAGE - NIGHT 
Most of the passengers in the car have fallen asleep, in various uncomfortable positions, including Watson. The monk beside Watson looks at him, to make sure he's out, then rises and moves toward a monk seated apart from the others. 
MONK (in a whisper) Die Spur fuehrt nach Inverness. Die steigen dort aus. Dort muessen wir ihn finded -- den Valladon! 
The other monk looks up.   Under the cowl we recognize the face of von Tirpitz. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. INVERNESS STATION - DAY 
The Highland Express is pulling out of the station. As the last car disappears, and the steam clears from the tracks, we see Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson on the platform. A BAGGAGEMAN is loading their luggage on a hand-cart, under Watson's supervision. 
WATSON Let's see -- two, three, four -- 
Gabrielle removes her parasol, which has been inserted under the straps of her suitcase. 
GABRIELLE I'll take that. 
HOLMES (to baggageman) How do you get to Glennahurich?    How far is it? 
BAGGAGEMAN Glennahurich? 
WATSON You know -- a valley -- with a yew tree... ? 
Gabrielle casually opens her parasol. 
BAGGAGEMAN It's about a mile out of town. (a beat) Why would you be wanting to go there? 
WATSON Well, if it's got a view, it might be a nice place for a picnic. 
BAGGAGEMAN It's got a view, right enough -- but it's no place for a picnic. 
HOLMES Why not? 
BAGGAGEMAN Because it's a cemetary. 
Gabrielle looks at Holmes. CAMERA PANS UP TOWARD an iron footbridge, spanning the railway tracks. Moving across it in single file are the seven cowled Trappist monks, with von Tirpitz in the lead. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. GLENNAHURICH CEMETARY - DAY 
From their position behind the headstone, Holmes, Watson and Gabrielle are watching the four boys, who have their backs to them. 
WATSON If they're unidentified graves, why are those boys bringing flowers? 
HOLMES Because it's their brothers who have just been buried. 
WATSON Their brothers? 
HOLMES And they're not boys. They're as tall as they'll ever grow. Hand me some pebbles, will you? 
WATSON Pebbles. 
He picks some up from the ground, hands them to Holmes, who tosses them in the direction of the graves. The pebbles strike a granite cross. At the sound, the four boys simultaneously turn their heads over their shoulders. Despite their slight bodies they have the features of mature men. 
Gabrielle and Watson react to the sight. 
GABRIELLE They are -- how do you say it in English? -- nains. 
WATSON Midgets. 
HOLMES (nodding) Boys with the faces of old men... 
WATSON I still don't see -- 
HOLMES Would it help if I told you they were acrobats? 
WATSON Not at all. 
HOLMES Do you remember a tumbling act -- six brothers -- missing from the circus? 
WATSON Oh, yes -- that case you turned down -- I completely forgot. 
HOLMES Some of us are cursed with memories like flypaper. And stuck there is a staggering of miscellaneous date, mostly useless. 
The four midgets have now risen, and putting on their caps, move off down the avenue. Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson emerge from their place of concealment. 
GABRIELLE (worriedly) Mr. Holmes, is those are not children, then -- ? 
HOLMES Quite. The question now is -- who's in the third grave? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. GLENNAHURICH CEMETARY - NIGHT 
The point of a crowbar digs under the edge of a coffin lid, which starts to give with a squealing protest of nails. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Holmes, standing in the large grave, from which the earth has been removed. Kneeling beside the grave, watching anxiously, are Gabrielle and Watson, the latter holding a bullseye lantern. 
Holmes pries the lid open, disclosing the corpse of a middle-aged man. His arms are folded across his chest, and on the third finger of his left hand is a wedding ring similar to Gabrielle's. From the picture of him we have seen earlier, we recognize the face as that of Emile Valladon. 
Gabrielle lets out a piercing scream, collapses in a faint. Watson catches her. 
WATSON Holmes!   She's fainted. 
HOLMES (preoccupied) Hand me that lantern. 
Watson passes down the lantern, and Holmes slowly shines the beam along the length of the coffin. 
WATSON It is Valladon, isn't it? 
HOLMES Obviously. What is not so obvious is why his wedding ring has turned green -- 
The lantern beam now reveals that laid out at Valladon's feet are three canaries -- their plumage bleached a grey- white color. 
HOLMES -- and why there are three dead canaries in the coffin. White canaries. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CALEDONIAN HOTEL - DAWN 
An open carriage is proceeding along the driveway toward the hotel, scatting a flock of sheep grazing nearby. Watson is sitting beside the coachman. Holmes and Gabrielle are in the passenger seat, their luggage is strapped to the back. Through the trees which line the road we glimpse Loch Ness, which is partly obscured by a low-lying mist. 
The carriage pulls up in front of the hotel, which is identified by a sign above the entrance, and Holmes, Watson and Gabrielle get out. 
CLOSE SHOT - HOTEL REGISTER 
Holmes' hand is writing: Mr. And Mrs. Ashdown and valet, London. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN 
The MANAGER, in kilts, is just opening the curtains -- disclosing a view of the mist-shrouded lake through the window. 
The room is on the second floor, and is furnished in a style which has been described as Scotch Baronial -- twin beds with a night-table between them, wardrobe, chiffonier, desk, a couple of chairs, and several mounted stags' heads. 
Holmes and Gabrielle are in the room, Watson is bringing their bags through the door. 
Watson almost drops the telescope in excitement. 
WATSON There it is!    There it is! 
Holmes joins him on the balcony. 
WATSON Look for yourself. 
He hands the telescope to Holmes. Gabrielle comes up to the window behind them. Holmes trains the telescope on the lake. 
WATSON See it?    See it? 
LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY 
Holmes' eye slowly scans the lake, but there is no sign of Watson's monster -- just the rolling mist. 
EXT. BALCONY - DAY 
Holmes lowers the telescope. 
HOLMES I see nothing. 
WATSON Nothing? 
He grabs the telescope from Holmes, looks toward the lake. 
WATSON It's gone. 
HOLMES Gone?   Maybe it was never there. 
WATSON I swear to you -- I saw it -- clear as anything -- 
HOLMES Watson, as you so succinctly put it, we are living in the Nineteenth Century -- 
He steps back into the room. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Watson comes halfway through the French window. 
WATSON Maybe that grave-digger was right -- the swell, and the boat overturning -- 
HOLMES Monsieur Valladon may have been found in the lake -- but he did not drown. He died of asphyxiation. 
GABRIELLE Asphyxiation. 
HOLMES (holding up wedding rings) There is only one substance that can turn a copper ring green and bleach the color out of canaries -- chlorine gas. 
WATSON That may be. But the fact remains that I saw something out there. 
HOLMES A figment of your imagination. Now let us be logical. The only concrete lead we have is the reference to the castle -- (picks up guide book from desk, opens it to map) The question is, which castle? 
WATSON You call yourself logical?   You're the least logical man I know. 
HOLMES Am I? 
WATSON How can you say it's a figment of my imagination, when for years you've been saying I have no imagination whatsoever! 
He looks at Holmes almost triumphantly. 
CUT TO: 
SERIES OF SHOTS - DAY 
Holmes, Gabrielle, and Watson bicycling away from the hotel. Holmes, in knickerbockers and a Norfolk jacket, and Gabrielle, holding her parasol, are on a tandem. Watson is behind them, on a bicycle with a picnic basket attached to the rack. He is in his valet's outfit, with metal clips around his trouser cuffs. 
The three of them bicycling past a long stone wall. 
They pedal up to an imposing castle.   Holmes dismounts, knocks on the front door. 
Our trio bicycling through a copse of trees. 
They approach another castle. 
On a steep road, they ride through a flock of sheep. 
They are proceeding along a causeway, away from a third castle. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. LAKE SHORE - DAY 
Holmes and Gabrielle are sitting on a blanket, the contents of the picnic basket spread before them, having lunch. Watson is pouring the wine. Their bicycles are resting nearby. 
GABRIELLE If he's an official guide, shouldn't he know... ? 
HOLMES If he's an official guide. 
They have now reached the wall against which they left their bicycles. Suddenly Holmes stops, attracted by the sound of birds chirping. 
HOLMES Listen...   Do you hear anything, Watson? 
WATSON (concentrating) No. Those birds are making too much of a racket. 
HOLMES (looking off) They're not just birds -- they're our old friends. 
Watson and Gabrielle follow his gaze. 
From the back of the wagon, the carriers have removed the small bird-cage we saw in the mail-drop on Ashdown Street. They hand it to a workman, who starts up the steps with it. To another couple of workmen they pass down an open-sided crate in which rest two heavy glass bottles protected by wicker. Stencilled on the wooden slate of the crate are the words: SULPHURIC ACID - CORROSIVE. 
Holmes is watching thoughtfully, Gabrielle and Watson are puzzled. 
WATSON Sulphuric acid? 
GABRIELLE The more we find out the less sense it makes. 
HOLMES To a graduate chemist it makes a great deal of sense. Sulphuric acid, when exposed to salt-water, produces chlorine gas. (a beat) Would you mind clasping your hands, Watson? 
WATSON (obeying) Like this? 
HOLMES A little lower... Thank you. 
Watson has lowered his clasped hands, and Holmes uses them as a foothold to go scrambling up the scaffolding of the nearby wall. Reaching the top, he looks off in the direction of the tower. 
The workman carrying the canary cage, and the two carrying the crate of sulphuric acid are approaching the tower. A draw-bridge comes down, and the three men cross the moat and enter the tower. 
HOLMES (looking off) That tower may be more interesting than I thought -- and not just architecturally. 
Out of the ruined gatehouse comes the guard with the two mastiffs on leashes. The dogs start to snarl viciously. 
WATSON Holmes, I have a feeling we're redundant here. 
Holmes leaps down from the scaffolding, wheels the tandem around, starts back in the direction from which they came. Gabrielle follows. Watson hurries after them with his bicycle, casting anxious glances over his shoulder as the dogs continue barking. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. LOCH NESS - EARLY EVENING 
The sun has just gone down behind the hills, but there is still light in the sky. An ominous mist is beginning to settle on the water. 
Gabrielle is sitting in the stern of a rowboat, her parasol in her lap. She is wearing Holmes' Norfolk jacket over her dress to ward off the chill. 
On the rowing seat, facing her, are Watson and Holmes, the latter in his waistcoat. Their oars are pulled in, and they are watching Urquhart Castle, on the opposite side of the lake. 
WATSON We have now observed the castle from the front, from the back, from the side, from land, from water... what now?  Are you planning to spend the night out here? 
HOLMES If necessary. 
WATSON You're going to catch your death of cold. (to Gabrielle) Wouldn't it be ironic if Holmes' last case were a case of pneumonia? (with an embarrassed chuckle) Sorry. 
Gabrielle glances past them, and her eyes widen. 
GABRIELLE (pointing off) What's that? 
Holmes and Watson turn their heads. 
About half a mile away, moving in and out of patches of drifting mist, is Watson's monster, its long reptillian neck cutting through the water. 
Watson leaps to his feet. 
WATSON Holmes! 
Holmes grabs his arm, pulls him back into his seat. 
HOLMES Quick, Watson. After it! 
He grabs his oar, and Watson belatedly joins in. They strain at the oars, setting a course which will intercept the monster.  Gabrielle leans forward in her seat, trying to peer past them through the curtains of mist. 
The monster is much closer now -- no more than a quarter of a mile away. 
Suddenly Watson stops rowing. 
WATSON Holmes, what are we doing?   We should be going away from it. 
HOLMES Keep rowing, dammit! 
Watson resumes pulling on his oar.   As they row, Holmes looks over his shoulder. 
HOLMES Dead? 
Mycroft crosses to the trunk, opens the lid. 
MYCROFT The Germans disposed of her three weeks ago, in Brussels. This is Gabrielle Valladon. 
He hands Holmes a small, framed photograph. Holmes looks at it with apprehension, as well he should: the picture is of a somewhat matronly woman, not the glamorous Gabrielle. Holmes lowers  the photograph. Behind it, Mycroft is glaring at him with customary arrogance. 
MYCROFT The woman who was brought to your house in the middle of the night -- apparently fished out of the Thames -- and apparently suffering from amnesia -- is, in fact, Ilse von Hoffmanstal, one of their most skillful agents. Am I going too fast for one of the "best brains in England?" 
HOLMES Go on. 
As Mycroft continues, Holmes picks up Ilse's water-soaked parasol and examines it. 
MYCROFT They planted her on you quite neatly, I must admit, so that you could lead them to their objective, the air pump. Very much like using a hog to find truffles. And now perhaps you'd care to join me. I am expecting a certain royal personage from Balmoral. 
EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT 
A coach and escort approach the castle. Painted on the door of the coach are the initials "V.R." 
INT. CASTLE COURTYARD 
The entourage enters the castle courtyard and stops. Footmen open the door and bow to the lone passenger. 
Waiting on top of the steps, outside the tent, are Mycroft and Holmes. Lined up on the other side of the torch-lit red carpet are half a dozen scientists, in their best clothes. 
Out of the coach steps a familiar figure -- Her Majesty, QUEEN VICTORIA, Defender of the Faith, Empress of India. She is 69 years old, and dressed entirely in black. 
Mycroft comes down the carpeted steps to meet her. 
MYCROFT Your Majesty. 
He bows. The Queen extends her hand to him, and he touches it. 
MYCROFT I trust you had a pleasant journey, Ma'am. 
QUEEN VICTORIA It was long and it was tedious. And it had better be worth our while, Mr. Holmes. 
MYCROFT I can assure you, Ma'am, it will be. 
A lady-in-waiting and a uniformed equerry have now descended from the coach. Mycroft leads the party up the steps. 
QUEEN VICTORIA Now what is this curious ship we are supposed to christen? 
MYCROFT We call it a submersible, Ma'am.    It travels under water. 
QUEEN VICTORIA Under water?    What a fantastic idea. 
They have now reached the top of the steps. 
MYCROFT Ma'am, may present some of the scientists who were responsible for this achievement. J.W. Ferguson, naval architect -- 
FIRST SCIENTIST (bowing) Your Majesty. 
MYCROFT Professor Simpson, our leading expert on hydraulics -- 
SECOND SCIENTIST (bowing) Your Majesty. 
MYCROFT W.W. Prescott, co-inventor of the revolving periscope -- 
THIRD SCIENTIST (bowing) Your Majesty. 
MYCROFT And this is Sir Arthur Grisby, our authority on maritime ballistics -- 
QUEEN VICTORIA We don't claim to understand any of this. But England is proud of you, gentlemen. To think that man can now observe fish in their native habitat -- 
MYCROFT (trying to correct her) Well, not exactly, Ma'am -- 
QUEEN VICTORIA -- and underwater plants and coral reefs -- (noticing Holmes) Young man -- what was your contribution to this project? 
HOLMES I'm afraid it was rather negligible, Your Majesty. 
MYCROFT (to the Queen) This is my brother, Sherlock, Ma'am. 
QUEEN VICTORIA Ah, yes. Sherlock Holmes. We have been following your exploits with great interest. 
Holmes bows, touches the Queen's extended hand. 
HOLMES Thank you, Ma'am. 
QUEEN VICTORIA Are you engaged in one of your fascinating cases at the moment? 
HOLMES In a manner of speaking, Ma'am. 
EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY 
Holmes is leaning against the parapet, scanning the lake through his telescope. Watson appears through the open French window behind him. 
WATSON (excitedly) Holmes, I saw it again -- that thing -- it came from the castle -- it's out there 
LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY 
A trial of bubbles is moving along the surface. Suddenly there is a muffled explosion from below, and a geyser of water shoots up into the air. 
EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY 
Holmes slowly lowers the telescope. 
HOLMES It was out there. Now it's gone. 
WATSON Gone? 
HOLMES Forever.   Look for yourself. 
LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY 
There is a great turbulence in the water. Up to the surface pops the bottle of christening champagne, with rope and ribbons still attached. Then a copy of the Bible pops up. 
EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY 
WATSON A bottle of champagne?... and a Bible?... 
HOLMES That's all that's left of H.M.S. Jonah. 
He steps through the window as a puzzled Watson lowers the telescope. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
Watson follows Holmes in from the balcony. 
HOLMES It would seem that somebody carelessly loosened the bolts of the submersible. What a fitting end for Trappists -- now they are resting in eternal silence at the bottom of the lake. 
WATSON (to Gabrielle) Do you know what he's talking about? 
Through the open doorway comes Mycroft.   In the corridor behind him is one of his aides. 
MYCROFT Fraulein von Hoffmanstal? 
GABRIELLE Yes, Mr. Holmes. I'm all ready. 
MYCROFT If there's one thing I like about the Prussians, it's their punctuality. 
GABRIELLE If there's one thing I dislike about the British, it's their climate. I understand your jails are quite damp -- and your heating facilities totally inadequate. 
MYCROFT They are. But you're not going to jail. You're going back to Germany. 
GABRIELLE Germany? 
MYCROFT You will be conducted to the Swiss-German border, and be exchanged for one of our agents -- a man named Ibbetson. 
GABRIELLE Thank you. 
MYCROFT Don't thank me. Thank my brother.      It was his idea. 
Gabrielle looks at Holmes, but he avoids her eyes. 
MYCROFT (to Gabrielle) Frankly, I think we are making a very poor deal. You much better than most operatives working for British intelligence. (turning to Holmes) Don't you agree, Sherlock? 
HOLMES (with a small but gallant bow to Gabrielle) And better than some consulting detectives. 
Mycroft signals to his aide, who comes in from the corridor and picks up Gabrielle's bag. 
MYCROFT (to Gabrielle) Shall we? 
GABRIELLE (reaching for parasol) I'll take that. (to Holmes and Watson) Gentlemen. 
She turns and walks out the door, Mycroft following. Watson's bewilderment has now reached monumental proportions. 
WATSON (folding his arms) All right, Holmes -- you don't have to explain anything to me, if you don't want to. 
HOLMES I appreciate that, Watson. 
WATSON After all, I'm only your official biographer -- 
HOLMES Anyway, I don't think she'd care to have this story spread all over Strand Magazine. 
WATSON The public has a right to know these things. If she's a German spy, why should we concern ourselves about her feelings? 
