THE PROGRAM 
Written by 
David S. Ward & Aaron Latham 
REVISED TAN 11/23/92 SHOOTING DRAFT 
FADE IN 
ON BLACK SCREEN 
SPORTSCASTER'S VOICE (V.O.) Allright, bowl bid ridin' here for E.S.U. Fourth down on the Georgia Tech 18. 4 ticks left. Kane sets 'em down. 
INSTANT CUT TO: 
LINE OF TAPED KNUCKLES - NIGHT 
smashing into the mud, as a football OFFENSIVE LINE comes set, frosted breath steaming across to: 
The DEFENSIVE LINE digging in, ready to explode. 
CLOSE ON JOE KANE 
E.S.U. quarterback, barking signals. The ball is snapped, and we go to SLOW MOTION as the lines crash together in the slop. 
Joe rolls to the right, looking downfield. A huge DEFENSIVE END bears down on him. Joe jukes. The end whips on by, grabbing for jersey, slipping off. But big NUMBER 75 is closing the gap. On the run, Joe releases a desperation pass toward the end zone, just as 75 catches him and buries him face-down in the swamp. 
We FOLLOW THE BALL, spiraling through the slanting rain. RAY GRIFFEN, black running back, glances back for it, two DEFENSIVE BACKS with him. All three leap in unison, climbing as high as they can, clutching, clawing for the ball. The ball floats down, kisses off the tangle of fingers, splashes to the ground, and rolls to a stop in the mud. Incomplete. The BANG of the final gun snaps us back to LIVE ACTION. 
Joe on his knees in the muck, stares at the goal line, then drops his head in defeat. 
ANGLE ON SAM WINTERS 
Betraying little emotion, Coach SAM WINTERS, wiry, intense, early 50's, takes off his headset, lets it drop, heads across the field. 
REPORTER #1 (V.O.) Coach, this is the second year in a row you've failed to go to a bowl game. Do you feel your program's in decline? 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT 
Coach Winters stands outside his office surrounded by reporters, a bouquet of microphones stuck in his face. 
WINTERS (keeping his cool) No, we're just a young team on the verge. We'll be back in a major bowl next year. 
Elsewhere in the locker room, we pick up a weary, mud- splattered Joe Kane taking off his pads in front of his locker. ALVIN MACK, black linebacker, comes by. Alvin exudes danger; big, fast and hostile on the field, slightly surly, a sense of repressed anger off it. 
ALVIN Good throw, Joe. It was there. 
JOE So was half their team. (trailing off) Shit, another Christmas at home. 
ALVIN Next year, man. Next year we sell out. Next year we dominate. 
ON COACH WINTERS AGAIN 
still fielding questions. 
REPORTER #2 You still need a deep threat or a breakaway back to go with Joe Kane. What are you gonna do to address this need? 
COACH WINTERS (a little edgy) Stop wastin' my time talkin' to you guys for a start. 
As Winters gets up to go, we hear: 
WILSON (V.O.) I'm not gonna lead you into the fog here, Sam... 
INT. CHANCELLOR WILSON'S OFFICE - DAY 
CHANCELLOR GRANT WILSON, 60, grey-haired eminence, sits behind his desk. Seated across from him are Coach Winters and GALEN HOWARD, 50, the Athletic Director. 
CHANCELLOR WILSON I'm concerned about our Program. It's always been a source of pride to our students and alumni, but two straight so-so seasons are having a damaging effect on our fund-raising, both public and private. 
WINTERS (half-joking) Then stop raising the entrance requirements on me. We never could have gotten Alvin Mack in here under the new guidelines. 
CHANCELLOR WILSON As Chancellor, my first responsibility is to the academic interests of this University. 
Wilson points to a representation of a football field affixed to the wall. A football rests on the 40 yard line, which is marked 160 million. The end zone (60 yards away) is 
FRANK Have another Vitamin I, Joey. Didn't think we'de see you here this Christmas, little brother. 
JOE You won't next year. 
JOE'S FATHER (getting up) Yeh, well we won't rent your place on the couch. 
As Joe's father heads for the kitchen, he hangs his empty beer can, by the pull tab, on a branch of the Christmas tree. We see that the whole tree is covered with cans. 
INT. PHILADELPHIA BOY'S HOME - NIGHT 
Darnell talks on a pay phone in the hall. 
DARNELL You're from E.S.U? 
GIRL'S VOICE Yeh. I was just sittin' here by the fire doin' my homework, and decided to give you a call. See how you're doin'. 
INT. OFFICE IN E.S.U. ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT - NIGHT 
We see who Darnell is talking to: AUTUMN HALEY, beautiful black girl, stylish, long straight hair, definitely not street. 
AUTUMN Coach Winters has been telling me about you. I'm looking forward to seeing you when you come to visit. I'll be your guide. You are coming to visit aren't you? 
We PULL BACK and REVEAL Autumn in an office with 15 other telephones, a coed on every one. ASST. COACH MYERS supervises with a clipboard of names and numbers. 
EXT. TUNNEL OF WOLFDEN STADIUM - DAY 
Joe leads Darnell down to the end of the tunnel, where Autumn is waiting. He introduces them. She's even more attractive than Darnell thought she'd be. 
She takes Darnell's hand and leads him out onto the field where he's greeted by the E.S.U. BAND playing the school fight song. The CHEERLEADERS whip into action, legs kicking, pom-poms whirling. 
The band parts and Darnell walks out into the 90,000 seat stadium, an awesome sight for any young man. Autumn points to the giant DIAMOND VISION SCOREBOARD. Darnell's name and picture appear. The stadium P.A. ANNOUNCER cuts in. 
P.A. ANNOUNCER Now for the starting line-up for the E.S.U. Timber Wolves. At tailback, number 20, Darnell Jefferson!! 
DARNELL You got that right. 
Darnell, in his excitement, does a little end-zone dance. Slaps hands with Joe. 
EXT. PICTURESQUE CAMPUS WALK - NIGHT 
Romantic, Ivy-League look, lit by soft-glo footlights. Darnell and Autumn walk, side by side, stopping outside Autumn's dorm. 
DARNELL Thanks for showin' me around, Autumn. I don't meet too many females like you. You got a lotta class. Real efficacious. Maybe I'll check you out in the fall. 
AUTUMN I hope so, Darnell. 
He leans down to kiss her. She hesitates, not sure about this, then comes forward, kisses him on the lips, starts to let it deepen, then breaks it off. 
AUTUMN Good night. 
As he watches her go up the steps, we go to: 
EXT. THE BOYS HOME - DAY 
Early February: It's National Decision Day and Darnell's home is under seige. Reporters. Microphones. Television cameras. Darnell steps out onto the porch wearing an ESU jersey with #1 emblazoned on it. 
DARNELL Now you know where I'm going and what we're indubitably going to be. 
MUSIC and TITLES END. 
EXT. E.S.U. CAMPUS - DAY 
A hot, late summer day. Over the deserted Quad, we see the title: 6 MONTHS LATER. 
It fades and we MOVE TO REVEAL a city BUS pulling up at a curb adjacent to the Quad. Off steps Darnell, carrying one battered suitcase. Joe Kane and BUD LITE KAMINSKY, offensive line tackle, are there to greet him. 
JOE Hey, Darnell, Welcome to E.S.U. 
DARNELL (shaking hands) Yeh, good to see you guys. What happened to the band and the dancin' honies? 
JOE Regular students don't come back for two weeks yet. Not that they woulda been here. Now that you've enrolled, you're just another wormshit freshman. 
INT. BROWNING ATHLETIC DORM - DAY 
A dorm devoted exclusively to football players. Luxurious lounges, study halls, saunas, recreation and media rooms. Spacious living quarters. A world unto itself. 
JOE I'm gonna lead... but can you follow? 
Muted chuckles, but set faces. The challenge accepted. Joe chugs his beer, pours another. 
EXT. TWO LANE HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
The crowd from the 911 (Bud, Alvin, Lattimer, Darnell, Bobby and Louanne) follow Joe down the hill behind the bar toward a busy two-lane highway. Joe, a little drunker than the others, starts HOWLING at the moon like a Timber Wolf. The others join in. 
BUD What are we doin', Joe? 
JOE (slightly slurred) There's something I wanta try. Gotta wake up our Mojo. Start settin' the tone for the season. 
BUD This is not a good time to be settin' anything. You're in no shape... 
Suddenly Joe makes a dash out onto the highway. 
BUD Joe, c'mon Joe, don't be an asshole. Joe! God-damnit, why's he always doin' shit like this? Coach'll fuckin' kill me. Alvin, go get him, will ya? 
ALVIN Hell no, you go get his ass. Crazy motherfucker. 
Joe stands on the white line, cars and trucks whizzing by, then lies down on his back, arms at his side. 
JOE'S POINT OF VIEW 
Cars and trucks blast toward us, roar on by, right on top of us, honking, spraying grime, shaking the asphalt. 
Bud and the others on the side of the road are increasingly worried now. 
BUD Fuck this shit. 
Pissed off, Bud sprints out to the white line. The draft- wake of a passing truck almost blows him over. 
BUD C'mon, Joe, that's enough. Let's get the hell outa here. What if somebody drifts or crosses the line to pass? 
JOE What's the matter, Bud? Can't you follow? 
Bud hesitates a second, scared, but stung by this dare. 
BUD (torn) God-damnit, god-damnit. Shit. 
Bud can't fight it. He lies down on the line, his head touching Joe's feet. Joe begins to HOWL again. Bud joins in. Alvin and the others can't believe it. 
ALVIN Startin' to look like a loaf of Wonder bread out there. 
BOBBY They're makin' us look like pussies, ya know. Standin' here suckin' our thumbs. 
LATTIMER (to Alvin) Yeh, and there's nobody from the Defense out there. 
Bobby and Lattimer look at each other a beat. Time to ante up. Both turn to Alvin. 
ALVIN What are you lookin' at? You think you're bad? 
Alvin snorts in disgust and starts out onto the blacktop. Bobby and Lattimer smile, go to follow. Louanne grabs Bobby, holds him back. 
LOUANNE (vaguely sexual) Bobby, be careful, o.k? Please, be careful. 
Bobby smiles, grabs her ass, pulls her to him, gives her a long, passionate kiss, then sprints out to the white line, leaving her breathless. 
Alvin, Bobby and Lattimer lie down in front of Bud. Now there's a line of five, a human highway median. Everybody scared shitless, howling their lungs out. 
Louanne and Darnell watch from the side of the road. 
DARNELL This guy do this kinda shit a lot? They never mentioned this in recruiting. 
Finally, Joe laughing wildly, jumps up and they all scramble back to safety. Out of breath, but pumped up, they exchange exhilarated high fives. Alvin just shakes his head. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - MORNING 
Twenty freshman football players, including Darnell, are scattered at tables around the room, writing furiously in test booklets, as a PROCTOR paces the room. Darnell starts to write an answer, stops, stumped. Worried, he looks at the clock, goes on to the next page. 
EXT. E.S.U. CAMPUS - MORNING 
Darnell and Joe walk across campus. Darnell carries a gleaming, chromed TROPHY with a football player on top. He's still thinking about the test. 
DARNELL We'll see. (departing, to Ray) Give my best to Miss Lilly. 
Autumn's mortification is complete. 
RAY (to himself) What the hell is that supposed to mean? 
EXT. E.S.U. CAMPUS - DAY 
Establish the new, modern KELLER CENTER, home of the E.S.U. Athletic Department. 
INT. KELLER CENTER - DAY 
The football meeting room. A quarter amphitheatre. The Freshman, including Darnell, down in front. Nervous, talking very little, eyes playing over the pictures of former E.S.U. greats arranged on the Wall of Honor. 
Behind them, the Upperclassmen, bantering, conversation punctuated with laughter. 
A door opens. The Assistant Coaches file in. The room hushes immediately. Coach Winters walks in. The Upperclassmen break into applause; the Freshmen quickly take their cue and join in. 
WINTERS Good to see you again, gentlemen. (catching sight of Darnell) Jefferson, either take off the earring or put on a dress. 
The upperclassmen hoot, as Darnell, embarrassed, takes off his earring. 
WINTERS I wanna talk a little about what we're trying to do here. There are many highly respected people who feel football is about preparation for life. 
The players nod reverentially at this established axiom of the football cannon. 
WINTERS These people are full of shit. You see, football is not like life. (pause) It's better. More exciting, more intense, more fun. In life, people are always wondering how they measure up; whether they're getting ahead or fallin' behind. In football, you know. Every week you get a chance to show what you're made of, a chance to demonstrate the physical and personal qualities that all those poor bastards who can't play this game are left to agonize about. 
Spreading smiles all around. It's good to be a football player. 
WINTERS Last year we didn't make enough of those chances. Last year everyone felt we let the school down. Fuck the school. We let ourselves down. (pointing to the Wall of Honor) We let down a great tradition, a 120- year-old Line of Champions. 
The smiles are gone. Lots of set faces now. Shame. anger, retribution. 
WINTERS Any football program worth the name is a special brotherhood, an elite corps of warriors, a select group of knights. That first time our starting unit takes the field, the first time we huddle up; that's our inner circle, that's our Round Table. If I were an upperclassman, I'd be real nervous about my seat, cause we got some very talented new-comers this year. Guys who want a place at the Table. (producing Darnell's trophy from behind the podium) This is the trophy one of our freshman, Darnell Jefferson, won as a Pennsylvania State High School First Team All-American. You know what this says to me? 
The freshmen are hanging on every word. 
WINTERS Not a god-damn thing. 
He smashes the trophy on the podium, breaking it in half, shattering the base. Darnell and the other freshmen are agog. The upperclassmen stifle laughs, particularly Ray Griffen. 
WINTERS (to the freshmen) Everybody here was a high school All- American. (to all the players) Whatever any of you have done before is out the window. We're startin' over. Ground zero. The Table is empty. Are you ready? 
The upperclassmen nod, steely, purposeful. We go to the freshmen. They're not so sure. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. E.S.U. PRACTICE FIELD - DAY 
Passing drills. Joe Kane takes a snap, fades to pass, throws an out. The ball sails two feet over the receiver's head. Joe's angry with himself. 
COACH CLAYTON (to Winters) He's too pumped up. Tryin' to win the damn Heisman on every throw. I'm not sure he's ready for all this hype. 
COACH HUMES Little late to be worryin' about that. If we don't follow up the Sports Illustrated cover with something, it'll look like we didn't believe in our own player. 
WINTERS Don't worry, Joe's a tough kid. He'll be allright. 
EXT. PRACTICE FIELD - DAY 
Scrimmage. Joe hands off to Darnell. He sweeps right, cuts it up, blows past the end. In a spectacular display of broken field running, Darnell breaks to the sideline, cuts back, eluding the corner back, and stiffarms the safety. Alvin, pursuing the play, finally tackles him from behind, stripping the ball at the same time. There's a wild scramble for the fumble. Darnell is crushed under the pile, as the defense recovers it, ruining an otherwise brilliant run. 
The players unpile to reveal Darnell, writhing on the ground, the wind knocked out of him. Ray Griffen runs by to take his place. 
GRIFFEN Hey, nice writhing, Jefferson. You got all the moves. 
WINTERS (shouting to the team) Allright, move it up. Let's go, 15 yards, run the next play. 
The scrimmage moves up 15 yards leaving Darnell behind. Winters sprints over to Lattimer, grabs him by the face mask. 
WINTERS Cut the necktie tackle horseshit. You think you're in some kinda highlight reel? He left you huggin' air. Target his guts. Drive right through his abdomen. I wanta see snot bubbles in his nose. I wanta see shit in his underwear. 
Lattimer nods chastised. Winters moves over to check on Darnell. 
WINTERS You injured, Jefferson, or just hurt? 
The players all look at each other, then reluctantly get up and change tables. Darnell sits next to Joe. 
DARNELL (mock introduction) Hi there. Darnell Jefferson. I'm a young black man. 
JOE Hey, glad to meet ya. Joe Kane, Caucasian. So what doya think a that new Garth Brooks album? 
DARNELL I love that motherfucker. 
Coach Winters surveys the scene, sees that all the tables are integrated now. 
WINTERS That's more like it. 
He turns and walks on out. Immediately, the players begin to drift back to their old tables. 
INT. WEIGHT ROOM - NIGHT 
Joe, Bud Lite and Bobby Collins, all suffering from various aches and pains are getting Naperson and analgesic balm out of the non-prescription drug cabinet. Joe pops a Nap and looks across to the weight room where a stunning co-ed CAMILLE SCHAEFFER works a knee lift. Camille's the perfect marriage of Southern patrician beauty and athletic confirmation. Joe leaves the others, heads over, pokes his head in. 
JOE How ya' doin'? 
CAMILLE Fine. 
JOE Little late to be workin' out, isn't it? 
CAMILLE (with a little edge) Only time I could get in here when the football team wasn't usin' it. 
JOE (trying to get a rise out of her) Well, if it wasn't for the football team, might not be a weight room to use. You tryin' to firm up a little, or what? 
CAMILLE (unfazed) Don't need to firm up. I'm strengthening my knee. Had arthroscopic surgery. 
JOE Had my knee scoped once too. When you're finished here, maybe we could get a yogurt, compare scars. 
CAMILLE Sorry, I don't date football players. They're all full of themselves. I saw you on the cover of Sports Illustrated, so you're probably worse than most. 
JOE That's real open minded of you. So you won't consider doin' anything with me? 
CAMILLE No. 
JOE Well at least tell me what happened to your knee. What'd you do? Fall outa your convertible? 
Camille stops her knee lift, turns to Joe. We think she's going to fire on him. Wrong. 
CAMILLE You know, there's maybe one thing I'd do with you. 
JOE What's that? 
CAMILLE Tennis. I'll play tennis with you. 
Camille starts to walk away. 
JOE Tennis. You mean now? It's raining. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
CAMILLE - TENNIS COURTS - NIGHT 
smashing a two-fisted forehand right at us, grunting with the exertion. Joe scrambles to get it back, but Camille's a world-class player. She attacks with a vengeance, blasting every shot ala Jimmy Connors, as Bud Lite and Bobby Collins watch, amazed. 
We begin a SERIES OF CUTS detailing Camille's relentless dismantling of Joe: Camille drilling a backhand down the line, Joe barely getting it back to the net. Camille hitting a powerhouse service ace, Joe lunging and whiffing the return. Camille crushing another forehand. Joe crushes it back, sends it over the fence and into the parking lot. Camille serving again at match point. Joe pops up a weak return. Camille puts it away with a powerhouse overhead, the ball almost knocking Joe down. He flings his racket against the fence. Camille comes to the net to shake hands, but Joe hangs back. 
CAMILLE Thanks for the game, Heisman. You took it really well. 
And she walks away along to the net. Joe goes after her, pissed. 
JOE What's this Heisman crap? 
Camille's taken aback, not realizing she'd struck a nerve. 
JOE I didn't say anything about being a Heisman candidate. I don't go around strokin' myself about it. So what's this shit you're givin' me? 
CAMILLE I... I'm sorry... I just figured you were probably kissin' yourself in the mirror every morning. 
JOE You figured wrong. 
Now Joe walks away and Camille goes after him. 
CAMILLE Hello... 
ON JOE 
JOE This is Joe Kane. What did you decide? 
CAMILLE (still drowsy) What? (looking at the clock) It's 3:00 in the morning. 
JOE I wanta know what you decided. 
CAMILLE I don't know... I couldn't think of any other sports I could beat you at. 
JOE Then I'll pick you up tonight at 
He hangs up. 
CAMILLE What? 
INT. CAMPUS LIBRARY - DAY 
Autumn sits at a tutorial table, looking at her notes. She becomes aware of someone approaching. She looks up to see Darnell. 
DARNELL Hey, Autumn. 
AUTUMN Hi, Darnell. What are you doin here? 
DARNELL My advisor says I need a tutor. Ya know, just to get me over a couple rough spots. (showing her a paper) I saw your name on this list. I figured if you couldn't keep my attention, nobody could. 
AUTUMN I'm sorry, Darnell, but I've already been assigned. You're gonna have to find somebody else. I'm tutoring Scott Sherman. 
DARNELL Not anymore. I asked Coach Winters to switch us. 
AUTUMN Coach Winters wouldn't do that. 
DARNELL Yeh he would. I'm a bigger prospect than Sherman. (pointing across the way) He's a lineman on the scout team. 
Autumn looks back to where Darnell is pointing. Sure enough, SCOTT SHERMAN is hard at work with another Tutor. Autumn can't believe it. She tries to compose herself. 
Darnell sits down across the table from her. 
DARNELL C'mon Autumn, you could teach me some real erudition. 
AUTUMN (trying to whisper, pissed) Will you stop using those big words. It sounds ridiculous. 
DARNELL (serious about this) What doya mean? I'm improvin' myself. I learn a new word out of the dictionary every day. Mendacious, pejorative, antithetical, commensurate... 
AUTUMN And you don't ever use them right. Pretending to be smart is not the same as being educated. Or erudite. It's just a con. And it makes you sound stupid, no matter how big a prospect you are. 
Darnell is genuinely hurt by this dose of reality. His customary bravado melts away. 
DARNELL O.K... even more reason for you to be my tutor. You already taught me something. 
Autumn, disarmed by his sudden humility, has no real rebuttal. She would have had to tutor him anyway, but now she's having trouble being angry about it. 
ALVIN MACK 
At another table, looking distracted and bored as his TUTOR reads his history assignment to him. Alvin takes out a walkman and puts the headphones on. WE HEAR A HORN BEEP. 
EXT. CAMILLE'S DORM - LATE AFTERNOON 
Camille comes out the front door, summoned by the horn. She stops at the sight of something. We REVERSE TO REVEAL Joe on his Harley. 
CAMILLE We goin' on that? 
JOE Yeh. I thought we might take a ride. 
CAMILLE I promised my dad I'd never get on one of those. 
JOE What are you, one of these trust- fund princesses? It's fine for me to play a game I don't know, but I ask you to try somethin' different and you hide behind your daddy. 
He holds out a motorcycle helmet toward her, daring her. She burns, but her competitiveness makes it impossible for her to decline this challenge. 
CAMILLE (snatching the helmet) All right. But we go slow. No cowboy stuff. 
Joe smiles and kicks the starter. Camille climbs on and they roar off. 
Joe roars in on his motorcycle. Parks. Starts inside. Finds himself face to face with a very unhappy Coach Winters. Winters holds out his hand. 
WINTERS The keys. 
Joe hesitates a second, then reluctantly hands over his motorcycle keys. 
WINTERS I told you, as long as you're in this program, you don't take unnecessary risks off the field. A man in contention for the Heisman Trophy should be able to remember that. 
Joe nods, contrite. Winters just walks on off. 
INT. STUDY HALL - CAMPUS LIBRARY - DAY 
Autumn is tutoring Darnell, checking her lesson notes. 
AUTUMN O.K., using the things we worked on yesterday, I want you to write a two or three page essay on some aspect of your life. Something other than football. 
DARNELL Like what? 
AUTUMN Your father, maybe. You could write about your dad. 
DARNELL Don't know that much about him. He was off in Detroit workin' in a car plant when I was born. Got laid off, tried to rob a jewelry store to get us some money. He died in prison. Some kinda heart problem. 
Autumn wasn't ready for this level of hardship. She tries to press on gamely. 
AUTUMN How about your mother? 
DARNELL She was always workin'. Usually two jobs. Comin' home one night she stopped to get us some root beer. Got caught in a gang crossfire. Shot three times... died on the way to the hospital. You want me to write about that? 
AUTUMN (blown away) No... 
DARNELL Good, 'cause none of it's true. 
Autumn jumps up. 
AUTUMN (raising her voice) Jesus Christ, Darnell what a terrible thing to do to somebody. That's not funny. That's sick. 
Autumn realizes she's in the library and sits back down. 
DARNELL Had ya goin', didn't I? 
AUTUMN (soft library voice) No you didn't. You just... How could you make up somethin' like that? 
DARNELL (contrite now) Sounded more interesting than the truth. My mom took a vacation to Chicago when I was 12. Never came back. Don't know who my dad was. 
Autumn's anger melts away in the face of this painful truth. 
AUTUMN Who took care of you? 
DARNELL I started hangin' with the J.B.M., gang-bangin'... Did some time in the Hall. Reverand Wallace saw me playin' football on a juvenile probation team. Took me in, got me into high school. Only reason they accepted me was 'cause I could play football. Sorta like here. Football saved my life. I'd be nowhere without football. 
Autumn just nods, still trying to take this all in. 
AUTUMN Well, then... maybe you could write about football this once. 
DARNELL Yeh, o.k... thanks. (pause) I've seen a lotta shitty things in my life, Autumn. That's why I know when I see somethin' good. 
Autumn knows this is no line. He means it. She's seeing him with new eyes. Moved by his pain, engaged by his sincerity, and more than a little taken by his regard for her. 
ON ALVIN 
across the room with his tutor. 
TUTOR Let's review the chapter I read you yesterday. Which two city states fought in the Punic Wars? 
ALVIN I dunno. Detroit and Buffalo. 
TUTOR C'mon, Alvin. You're gonna be tested on this. 
INT. FOOTBALL MEETING - AFTERNOON 
A video projector projects various football formations on the wall. 
WINTERS Okay, Alvin, this is Mississippi State's offensive set. 2nd and 2 on our 24. What defense are you in? 
ALVIN Eagle. Zipper. Hero. Unless the set back shifts into the I. 
Darnell listening to a Walkman, is going through a pregame ritual by his locker; pivoting from leg to leg, switching the ball from arm to arm. 
DARNELL (V.O.) Just that I'm here. That I'm not dead or in jail. 
INT. FOOTBALL MEETING ROOM - THE NIGHT BEFORE AGAIN 
JOE The great thing about football is you can lose yourself in it. 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - GAME DAY 
Joe sits off in a corner by himself, his head back against the wall, staring out into space, the only movement the rhythmic tapping of his feet. 
JOE (V.O.) There's no time to think, to worry, to have doubts. Everything else fades away. You just move and react. 
INT. FOOTBALL MEETING ROOM - THE NIGHT BEFORE 
ALVIN The best thing is when you dominate. That feeling when you hit a guy real good, really stick him, and you hear that little moan. 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - GAME DAY 
Alvin, his ass-kicking game face on, walks over to where Lattimer is finishing decorating his face with Indian war paint. They chuck each other's pads, then Lattimer opens his mouth. Alvin spits into it. Then Lattimer spits into Alvin's. Darnell can't believe this shit. 
ALVIN (V.O.) You know it's killin' him, but you feel great. It's just him and you, and he's the one that's hurtin'. 
We move in on the burning ferocity of Alvin's eyes and 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. STADIUM TUNNEL - GAME DAY 
The Players are bunched together in the tunnel, slapping pads, yelling encouragement. Winters waves them forward. They start to run down the tunnel. 
PLAYERS P.O.V. 
CAMERA runs with the players as the light at the end of the tunnel becomes larger and brighter. Crowd NOISE becomes louder until finally the camera emerges into the stadium and the light and 95,000 VOICES ROAR. AND ROAR! AND ROAR! This is Big Time College Football. 
INT. RADIO BROADCAST BOOTH 
E.S.U. announcer BRAD HARVEY and colorman, HARMON SLOAN are holding forth. 
HARVEY Welcome everybody to the Wolf Den where the E.S.U. Timberwolves, led by Heisman candidate Joe Kane, open their season against the tough Mississippi State Bulldogs under head coach Jackie Sherrill. 
EXT. THE FIELD - DAY 
The crowd stands, waving banners, as the E.S.U. kicker comes forward and kicks the ball high into the fall sky. The MISSISSIPPI STATE RETURN MAN fields the ball at the four yard line and returns it to the 22 where he's buried. The defense trots out and huddles up. 
ALVIN All right, let's get evil. 60 minutes, balls out. Let's open a can of kick- ass. Kill 'em all. Let the paramedics sort 'em out. 
The Mississippi State offense breaks it's huddle, comes to the line of scrimmage. Alvin, prowling behind the line, locks eyes with the tailback, No.23. 
ALVIN Hey, 23, don't think I don't recognize you, you little fuck. 
The tailback looks away. 
ALVIN Hey, pay attention when I'm talkin' to you, nigger. You're the guy that shot my mother aren't you? 
TAILBACK What? 
ALVIN You were tryin' to steal her fuckin' car weren't you, cocksucker. 
TAILBACK Shut up. I never heard of your mother. 
On the sidelines, Darnell is watching this exchange. 
DARNELL (to Joe) What's Alvin saying to that guy? 
JOE Just gettin' himself pumped up. 
DARNELL He wasn't pumped up already? 
ANGLE ON ALVIN AGAIN 
ALVIN (to tailback) Thought I'd never find you didn't ya? But I got you now nigger, and I'm gonna kill you motherfucker. I'm gonna bust your guts open and watch you die. 
The ball is snapped. The quarterback pitches to the tailback as Alvin charges into the hole, screaming at the top of his lungs. The tailback, eyes wide with fear, cuts back, away from Alvin, where he's promptly crunched by Lattimer. The ball flies loose, there's a scramble, Alvin comes up with it. E.S.U. ball. 
As he walks by, he slips an ENVELOPE into Darnell's coat pocket. Darnell opens it to find a 50 dollar bill. Surprised, he goes over to Alvin. 
DARNELL Hey, some guy just gave me a 50 dollar bill. 
ALVIN Don't worry, you'll get 5 or 6 hundred once you're startin', depending on how you play. 
DARNELL But we're not supposed to get any are we? 
ALVIN Hey, man, you can't live on $500 a month scholarship money. And the NC double assholes won't let us have jobs, so you take your money where you can get it. (taking Darnell's envelope) I'll keep it for you, till you see the light. Shit, they oughta be payin' us anyway. Athletic Department gets 3 million just for goin' to a bowl game. 
INT. JOE'S ROOM - EVENING 
Joe sits alone on his bed watching T.V. He's being interviewed in the locker room, a bouquet of microphones in his face. 
REPORTER (V.O.) This performance today -- two touchdown passes, another you ran in. Where do you think this puts you in the Heisman race? 
Joe hates this question. We go to the screen. 
JOE (uncomfortable) I really have no idea. That's up to you guys. 
ANGLE ON SCREEN 
The image changes to ESPN anchor CHRIS BERMAN in the studio. 
BERMAN Now let's turn to our Heisman watch. (does the pose while remaining seated) We begin with Sports Illustrated cover boy Joe Kane of E.S.U. who led his team to an impressive victory this afternoon. Well, if Joe continues to raise Kane, he may well be Able to dust off a large space on his trophy shelf. Although the real test will come in four weeks against Michigan and their Heisman hopeful, Tim Waymen. 
EXT. CAMPUS - EVENING 
Joe walks across campus, headed for Camille's dorm. 
BERMAN (V.O.) Michigan also won big today. Timothy, "He Could Go All The Way Men", will be looking to do so against the Timberwolves. And of course the able Kane will be looking to also. I can't wait. 
INT. CAMILLE'S DORM - NIGHT 
Joe comes down the hall, knocks on Camille's door. No answer. Knocks again. Nothing. Disappointed, he turns and walks away. 
INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE - NIGHT 
The post-game victory party is in full swing. All the players, their girls and various groupies, dancing, drinking, celebrating. Bud Lite and Joe stand drinking beer, watching the action. 
BUD LITE I don't know, I never seem to make out at things like this. 
Bobby, who's overheard this, walks by with Louanne. 
BOBBY You don't make out anywhere. Or did you finally break the snatch barrier this summer? 
BUD LITE Fuck you, Bobby. (realizing Louanne's there) Excuse me, Louanne. 
ANGLE ON DARNELL 
sitting across the room with Alvin but his attention is on Autumn and Ray out on the dance floor. Alvin notices. 
ALVIN Forget it, nigger. No chance for you there. 
DARNELL Why not? 
ALVIN Griffin's goin' to medical school. She likes that light-skinned respectable shit. You're just her ghetto toy. 
Darnell challenged by this, gets up and goes over to where Ray and Autumn are standing. A slow tune plays. 
DARNELL (to Autumn) Can I have this one? 
RAY I don't think so. 
DARNELL What are you so worried about? You haven't lost your starting job yet. 
Autumn realizes this could quickly get out of hand. 
AUTUMN (turning to Ray) Just one. 
Ray reluctantly backs off. Darnell and Autumn start to dance. Several players who've picked up on the tension, watch them as they move around the floor. They try to pretend they're just having a nice little chat. 
AUTUMN (whispering) Take it easy, Darnell. This isn't a good time to push things. You're putting me in an awkward position. 
DARNELL Yeh, well, I got a little encouragement along the way. 
LOUANNE (crying) I don't know... I thought he... loved me... 
WINTERS Loved you? He loves anything that winks back, the little rat bastard. And what are you gonna do for school now? I use my influence to get you back in, it'll stink to high hell. The press'll crucify me. 
LOUANNE I'll get in someplace. 
WINTERS God, Louanne, I told you to stay away from my players. That was my cardinal rule, stay away from the damn players... 
LOUANNE They've always been good enough for you. Good enough to devote your life to. Why aren't they good enough for me? Or are they too good? 
WINTERS You're changing the subject, Louanne. We're talkin' about you breakin' the rules. 
LOUANNE Didn't you ever break the rules just a little? Didn't you tell me once that 90 per cent of the schools obey the NCAA rules, and the other 10 per cent go to bowl games? Was that just a joke? 
She gets up and walks out of the room. Winters closes his eyes and slumps down on the couch. 
INT. STUDY HALL - NIGHT 
Darnell sits at his table waiting for Autumn. Autumn storms in, obviously upset about something. She slaps a corrected test down in front of him. 
AUTUMN You seen this? You got a D on your math test. 
DARNELL Yeh, I kinda figured that. I had some trouble on this last part... 
AUTUMN We went over that last week, Darnell. What is this time we spend in here? Just a joke to you? I don't even think you've been listening to me. 
DARNELL I've been listening to you, baby... 
AUTUMN Don't call me baby. I thought you wanted to learn. But if all you wanta do is fake your way through, then get another tutor to waste time with. 
DARNELL C'mon, Autumn, we just had a good time, and now you're gettin' all nuts behind this. It's just one test. 
AUTUMN So far, it's the only test. I want you to study this whole chapter. By yourself, without me here. When I come back, we'll discuss it. Be ready to do problems based on it. 
DARNELL Whatever you say, Teach. (big grin) I don't wish to be cast in a pejorative light, so I'm dedicating myself to achieving on a level more commensurate with my abilities. 
She shakes her head and walks away. Darnell's grin fades. He looks at his test, a hint of tears in his eyes. He's embarrassed and deeply worried. 
INT. FOOTBALL LOCKER ROOM - DAY 
The players are dressing for Monday practice, but it's strangely subdued. Bobby Collins opens his locker to find a BULLET-RIDDLED PRACTICE JERSEY hanging inside. Immediately the rest of the players burst into raucous laughter. 
BUD LITE Coach'd probably shoot ya lower. 
Suddenly the room goes silent. Standing in the doorway is Coach Winters. 
He says nothing, looks around the room, the players avoiding his gaze. His eyes come to rest on Bobby. Bobby tries to hide the shirt, but Winters has seen. Winters just stares at Bobby a beat, then. 
WINTERS You all played a fine game on Saturday. Take the day off. 
With that, he turns and walks out the door. The players remain silent. Bobby throws the shirt in the trash. 
INT. LOUANNE'S SORORITY HOUSE - DAY 
Winters walks in the front door, past the desk, up the stairs and down the hall to his daughter's room. She's packing her things. He goes over to her, takes her in his arms and hugs her tight. Neither speak. A tear rolls down Louanne's cheek. Hits the floor. 
EXT. HALL OF ATHLETIC BUILDING - DAY 
A very nervous Bobby Collins comes down the hall and knocks on Coach Winter's door. 
WINTERS C'mon in, Collins. 
INT. COACH WINTER'S OFFICE 
Bobby enters and stands across from Winters' desk. Winters doesn't invite him to sit. 
BOBBY Listen, Coach, I just want you to know I'm really sorry about this whole thing with Louanne. I was real glad to hear she's gonna be goin' to junior college here... 
WINTERS (cutting him off) Shut up. 
Bobby does. Instantly. 
WINTERS I could easily take your case to the Board of Regents. You've had no prior infractions and I could argue that you were under abnormal pressure. (pause) But I won't. You embarrassed me, you embarrassed my family, you embarrassed the program. As of now, you are no longer a member of this university or it's football team. Clean out your locker. 
Bobby just stands there a beat, in confusion and disbelief. There is no wavering, no sympathy in Winters' eyes. Finally, dazed and disoriented, Bobby turns and walks out. 
JOE O.K., time to put the women and children to bed, and go looking for dinner. 
He begins to howl, as do all the others. The Call of the Wild. 
JOE 82 Strike, Eagle, Crown, on 2. 
They clap hands, come to the line. Joe looks over the defense, bends under center and barks signals, The ball is snapped. Action goes to SLOW MOTION. 
Joe fakes to Darnell, fades to pass. The Michigan cornerback comes on a blitz, locked on Joe. Joe starts to roll, but knows the corner will catch him. On the run, he launches the ball toward Darnell. Darnell opens his hands to receive it, but at the last second, the Michigan SAFETY steps in front and intercepts it. 
ZABRISKIE (V.O.) Kane looking for Jefferson. It's... Intercepted! Intercepted by Freeman! And that should do it. 
Joe sinks to his knees in frustration. The blitzing cornerback does a quick pit-pat on Joe's helmet. Winters looks like he's been punched. 
As Michigan and Tim Waymen celebrate on the sideline, we go to: 
INT. BROADCAST BOOTH - AFTERNOON 
Steve Zabriskie is doing the wrap-up, the emptying stadium behind him. 
ZABRISKIE Well, it was everything we expected it to be. Fine performances on both sides of the field. 
INT. E.S.U. LOCKER ROOM - AFTERNOON 
Players undress and shower in relative silence. No joy here. 
ZABRISKIE (V.O.) The edge in the much ballyhooed battle of the quarterbacks would probably have to go to Michigan's Tim Waymen who threw for 2 touchdowns, and ran for another. Joe Kane accounted for three E.S.U. touchdowns, but had that crucial interception in the waning moments. And that proved to be the difference. 
The door of the locker room opens, and a flood of reporters enter. Joe hides back in the showers, leaning his forehead against the wall, the water coursing over him. 
EXT. TUNNEL BENEATH STADIUM - LATE AFTERNOON 
Darnell comes out of the locker room, having showered and dressed. He's surprised to see Autumn and her father talking to Coach Humes. 
DARNELL Hey, Autumn. 
AUTUMN Hi, Darnell. 
DARNELL Is this your dad? 
AUTUMN Yes... 
DARNELL How do you do, Mr. Haley. I'm Darnell Jefferson. 
MR. HALEY Jefferson? Nice run you made on that screen pass. Another block and you might have scored. 
DARNELL Thank you. We'll get 'em next year. 
MR. HALEY How do you and Autumn know each other? You a friend of Ray's? 
Darnell is jolted by this question. It's obvious that Autumn has never told her dad about him. 
AUTUMN (filling the void) Ah, I tutor him... 
MR. HALEY Oh really? In what? 
Darnell would like to crawl under a rock. 
DARNELL Math and English. 
MR. HALEY Ah. 
There's a slight tone of condescension in Mr. Haley's voice. He realizes Darnell hasn't passed his entrance exam. This is not lost on Darnell. 
MR. HALEY Well, stay on top of that, Darnell. I'd have been in real trouble if I hadn't gotten my degree. I played ball once. Hurt my knee. 
DARNELL Yeh, I know... 
MR. HALEY I used to put a copy of my report card inside the webbing of my helmet to remind me that college was more important than football. 
DARNELL (forcing enthusiasm) Good idea. Well, I gotta get goin'. Nice to meet you Mr. Haley. 
MR. HALEY Nice to meet you, Darnell. 
DARNELL See you around, Autumn. 
CLAYTON So what do we do? 
All eyes go to Winters. 
WINTERS Bring him down here. 
INT. COACH WINTERS LOCKER ROOM OFFICE - 20 MINUTES LATER 
Close on a contrite, but shaken Steve Lattimer. 
LATTIMER Three games? Why so many? 
WINTERS You oughta be grateful I didn't suspend you for the whole year. 
Lattimer nods, he knows it's true. 
LATTIMER What are you gonna give as the reason? 
WINTERS We'll say you've got a hamstring pull. 
LATTIMER (relieved) Thank you, Coach. 
WINTERS Don't thank me. During those three weeks, you better kick the roids, cause when you come back I'm gonna personally test you before every game. No N.C.A.A. shit either. I'm gonna watch the piss go into the bottle. You got that? 
LATTIMER (barely audible, shamed) Yes, sir. 
WINTERS Start practicing your limp. 
INT. LOCAL BAR - NIGHT 
Not the 911 we saw earlier. Joe sits at a table in the back, with Darnell, drinking tequila with a beer chaser. Both are down in the dumps. At a nearby table there's a group of TOWNIES and their GIRLFRIENDS. 
JOE Coupla real college heroes, huh? Tearin' up the town. 
DARNELL First time I ever lost a girl and a game on the same day. Guess I never really had the girl. 
Joe looks up to see one of the townies' girls, DEBBIE, giving him the once over and a little smile. Joe smiles back, not really interested. Debbie's BOYFRIEND notices. 
BOYFRIEND You know that guy? 
DEBBI Not really... 
BOYFRIEND Then why you smilin' at him? 
DEBBI I don't know... he looks like that E.S.U. quarterback guy. Joe, what's his name? 
BOYFRIEND So what? So you go and smile at him? 
The boyfriend, drunk and looking for trouble, goes over to Joe's table. 
BOYFRIEND You been lookin' at my girlfriend? 
JOE (a little drunk himself) I don't know. Which one is she? 
BOYFRIEND Wise guy, huh? Mr. bigtime quarterback. The one who choked his ass off today. You got nothin' better to do then look at my girlfriend? 
Joe says nothing. 
BOYFRIEND Hey, Heisman, I'm talkin' to you. You too good to talk to me? 
JOE I'm not even interested in talkin' to you. 
BOYFRIEND You think you're a bad ass? You think my girl's hot for you? Take your pads off, you're just another pussy. 
Joe gets up to go. The boyfriend grabs him, Joe pushes him away. The guy charges Joe. The bar owner rushes to the phone as a full scale brawl begins. Joe takes a blow, knocks the boyfriend back into a table, knocking beer bottles to the floor. The boyfriend falls on one, opening a deep gash in his shoulder. 
DARNELL (grabbing him) C'mon we gotta get outa here. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
A speeding car goes by us, weaving, crossing the yellow line on the curves. 
INT. SPEEDING CAR - NIGHT 
Joe's driving, Darnell's holding on. Suddenly we hear SIRENS. Joe sees flashing lights in the rear-view mirror. 
Joe is shown into his room. Bare. One cot. One dresser. He drops his bag, sags onto the bed. 
ALVIN (V.O.) Four fuckin' weeks? 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 
A tired and depressed group of E.S.U. football players undress after practice. Bud and Alvin sit in their pads, Lattimer standing in street clothes. Bud softly sings "Don't Cry For Me Argentina." 
ALVIN Shit, the defense is gonna have to pitch shutouts now... (to Lattimer) and you're gone for 3. What the hell did you take that shit for? 
LATTIMER Nobody seemed to mind when I was knockin' people's dicks in the dirt. 
ALVIN I bust chops too. I don't have to get all fucked up. 
LATTIMER Not everybody has the ability you do, Alvin. You do what you have to do to play. 
ALVIN Well, you're not playin' much now are you? Shit, whole fuckin' season down the drain. 
EXT. WOLF DEN STADIUM - DAY 
Winters and Galen Howard are walking across the field after practice. The stadium is deserted. 
HOWARD I been talkin' to Chancellor Wilson... 
WINTERS What's he wanta do now, cut practice down to once a week? 
HOWARD No, he's happy with the way the season's gone so far. The Alumni have pretty much stayed off his back, but with Joe out now, it could all be up for grabs again. 
WINTERS He thinks he's gonna have trouble marchin' the ball down the old fund- raisin' board, huh? 
HOWARD The facts are, all we have left are freshman quarterbacks, and nothin' I saw at practice today, convinced me that any of them are ready to step in. 
WINTERS What are you sayin? 
HOWARD We gotta get Bobby Collins back. 
WINTERS Wilson say that? 
HOWARD He didn't have to. 
WINTERS Forget it, Galen, Collins is no All- Star either. 
HOWARD Yeh, but he's good enough to get us a split of the next four games. 
WINTERS Look, just because you're Wilson's boy all of a sudden, doesn't mean I'm gonna let him make me look like a fuckin' whore. 
HOWARD Don't give me that high and mighty shit. There's a lotta people on the bubble here. Four straight loses and we're out of bowl contention. How's that gonna make you look? If you're too stupid to consider your own situation, then maybe you oughta think about your assistant coaches. They've got families to feed too. 
Howard walks away, pissed off, leaving Winters alone in the middle of the field. 
INT. BOARD OF REGENTS HEARING ROOM - DAY 
The seven members of the BOARD OF REGENTS sit on one side of a long rectangular table, the Chairman in the middle. On the other side are coach Winters, Bobby Collins, the President of the Faculty Senate, EDWARD LEARNIHAN, Academic Advisor, ARTHUR SHANE, President of the Student Body, RICHARD FOWLER, and Galen Howard. Fowler is addressing the board. 
FOWLER Therefore, I respectfully submit that Bobby Collins should not be given special treatment just because he's a football player. Would a regular student get a reinstatement hearing if they'de been caught cheating? Nobody's talking about letting the girl who took the test back in. 
Winters could kill this kid. 
LEARNIHAN I think it's also instructive to look at some of the courses this young man has taken. Beginning Golf, Voice and Speech Improvement... 
SHANE I'd like to point out that Mr. Collins was still on schedule to get his degree. 
LEARNIHAN (pointing to Collin's transcript) In what, Swimming Pool Management? 
CHAIRMAN Would you like to respond, Coach Winters? 
Winters rises, sweating, less from nervousness than from the odious nature of what he has to do. 
WINTERS I don't know much about all this other stuff, but I do know the punishment should fit the crime. Cheating's bad, but I don't think it deserves a life sentence. Here's one of those athletes who takes college level courses, who wants to graduate. I think Bobby Collins made a big mistake, but he's already been suspended for several weeks. He's served his time. I think he deserves a second chance. 
LEARNIHAN Like Alvin Mack? We gave him a second chance and since he's had 5 incompletes, 4 withdrawals and still reads at a fourth grade level. You're using his body to make money for the Athletic Department -- you, yourself, are making three times what the Chancellor is -- but obviously no one is making an effort to see that this kid gets an education. 
WINTERS He's helpin' to pay for your physics lab too. If you're willin' to go without a new office, maybe I could hold him out a few games. Save his body. 
CHAIRMAN Gentlemen... 
BUD You two seein' each other again? 
LOUANNE Yeh, he was even talking about us gettin' a place off campus together, until he got reinstated. I don't know how I woulda told my dad. 
Bud just nods blankly. Louanne starts to head for Bobby's room. 
BUD Ah, Louanne... (pained to say it) I wouldn't go in there right now. 
LOUANNE Why not? 
Bud doesn't have the heart to tell her. She finally realizes Bobby's with another girl. 
LOUANNE Ah. Guess I'm pretty stupid when it comes to men. I never learn, do I? 
BUD I think maybe men are just stupid when it comes to you. If you ever feel like, ya know, just talkin' sometime, gettin' a beer -- let me know. My schedule's pretty open. 
LOUANNE Thanks, Bud (handing him the clothes) Give him these, will ya? 
Bud nods. Louanne, fighting back tears, walks back down the hall with as much dignity as she can muster. 
INT. JOE'S REHAB CENTER - DAY 
Winters comes to the door, hesitates, walks in and finds Joe huddled on his bed. Shivering. 
WINTERS Get up. I wanta talk to you. 
Joe looks resentful but makes an effort and sits up. 
WINTERS Don't sit up. Stand up. If you can. 
Joe gets unsteadily to his feet. He feels sick. Winters reaches out to shake hands. Joe does not reciprocate. Hides his right hand behind his body. 
WINTERS What's the matter, Joe? You won't shake hands with me. (Joe is silent) You don't want me to see your hand, do you? (more silence) So I guess what I heard was true, huh? You been poundin' the walls with your passin' hand, right? (silence) I tell you what, Joe, you want to hit somethin', hit me. 
Joe doesn't move. 
WINTERS I said hit me. I'm the one who put you in here. Don't hit the damn wall. It ain't the wall's fault. Hit me! Go on, hit me right now! 
Joe is angry but he doesn't want to do anything about it. 
WINTERS Who else you wanta hit, huh? you're daddy maybe? Cause he's a no-show prick? Well, I'm a daddy, too, and not a very good one at that. So just hit me instead! I'll take your daddy's beatin' for him. Go on, you want to. Hit me, damnit! 
Joe shakes his head. 
WINTERS (pushes Joe in the chest) Hit me! I'm not gonna leave you alone until you hit me. (shakes Joe by shoulders) The guys'll thank you. They've always wanted to do it. So do it now, damnit! Do it! 
Joe sinks to his knees. Winters stares down at him, then kneels also, his own anger and frustration draining away. 
WINTERS O.K., Joe, it's o.k. I guess I need it more than you do. (pause) You gotta quit beatin' up on yourself. Let me see that hand. 
Joe reveals his hand. It's barked and cut, but not badly swollen. 
WINTERS It's o.k. (playfully) You can still throw with it, you fuckin' mook. (pause) Look, the nurses say this is the toughest time for you right now. I thought I'd stick around a little, case you wanta play some cards, pick a fight with the wall again, whatever... 
JOE You don't have to. 
WINTERS Yes I do. 
INT. STEVE LATTIMER'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Lattimer fills a bag with all his steroid paraphernalia. He carries it to his bathroom where he slowly empties it into his toilet. Syringes, vials and bottles of pills all tumble into the water. He flushes. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. JOE'S ROOM IN REHAB CENTER - MORNING 
The sun shines through the window. Joe wakes up, raises up, looks over at Winters who is asleep in a chair. Winters rouses. Joe gives him a little smile, he's allright. Winters gives him a nod of approval. 
MUSIC UP. BEGIN A SERIES OF SHOTS 
detailing the Timberwolves progress over the next four games. 
ON FIELD 
1) Players shaking hands at midfield after the game. The scoreboard reads E.S.U. 14 Boston College 10. 
EXT. KINNICK STADIUM - NIGHT 
An ambulance carrying Alvin emerges from the stadium. We hear CHEERING inside, the SIREN outside. 
HARVEY (V.O.) Twelve seconds left, Iowa driving for the winning touchdown. Fourth and goal at the one. E.S.U. trying to hold on without their star middle linebacker, Alvin Mack. 
EXT. THE FIELD AGAIN - NIGHT 
The E.S.U. defensive line digs in. Lattimer tries to suck up his remaining strength. 
Iowa runs a blast to Lattimer's side. He fights through one block, the ballcarrier coming right toward him. They meet in a titanic collision at the goal line. The back keeps driving, twisting. Lattimer tries to hold him, but weaker than he was on steroids, is unable to. The back falls over the goal line. Touchdown. IOWA 13 E.S.U. 10. 
As the Iowa players celebrate all around him, Lattimer sits where he fell, a beaten and humiliated young man. 
REPORTER (V.O.) Coach, you've lost two of your last four. 
INT. INTERVIEW ROOM UNDER STADIUM - NIGHT 
Coach Winters faces the press. 
REPORTER Why do your teams seem to nose dive at the end of the last couple seasons? 
COACH WINTERS This was a tough loss, but this ain't any nose dive. We've had some key players out, but if we win next week, we'll still win the conference and go to a major bowl on New Year's Day. I mean, I know you guys can't write, but I thought you could at least count. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - EVENING 
Alvin lies on a bed, his leg bandaged and elevated. He's still a little groggy from anesthetic. Coach Winters stands beside him. 
WINTERS You look good, Alvin. 
ALVIN Yeh, I feel o.k. 
WINTERS Any of the guys been down yet? 
ALVIN They called. 
WINTERS Hell, you know how football players are about hospitals and injuries. 
ALVIN Yeh. 
Several beats of silence. Then: 
ALVIN I'm never gonna play again, am I? 
WINTERS Doctors aren't always right, Alvin... but I just want you to know... you're the best defensive football player I ever coached. 
Alvin nods. Winters comes forward, hugs him around the head, gives him a smile, walks out. Tears brim in Winters eyes as he leaves. Alvin's head goes back against the pillow. Tears aren't brimming here. They're rolling down his cheeks. 
MUSIC BEGINS 
EXT. REHAB CENTER - MORNING 
Joe walks out with his suitcase. Coach Winters waits for him. Shakes his hand. They get in the car. 
WINTERS (V.O.) Congratulations. I'm proud of you, Joe. 
INT. CAR - DAY 
WINTERS I know you had a difficult time. Michigan is easy, right? Bourbon is tough. 
JOE Scotch. 
They share a laugh. Winters pulls out two sets of round trip airline tickets. 
WINTERS I got somethin' for ya. Coupla round trip tickets. Go see your dad. Get it cleaned up. 
Joe takes the tickets, just looks at him. 
INT. STEVE LATTIMER'S ROOM - NIGHT 
LATTIMER (on the phone) I'm gonna have to take a test with the coach right there. You sure you got somethin' better than blockers? 
DEALER (V.O.) Much better. This guy is foolproof. See ya Saturday. 
Lattimer hangs up, picks up a HYPODERMIC. Stares at it a second, sweat beading on his forehead. Then plunges it an inch deep into his thigh. Pulls it out, sits on the bed a beat, then picks up a barbell and begins to pump it furiously, biceps bulging. 
JOE'S DAD (sensing the anger) What do you mean? 
JOE Mighta made you feel bad. Like maybe it wasn't written someplace that we all gotta go on our ass. Like maybe you coulda done somethin' more, if you'de tried a little harder. 
JOE'S DAD Or maybe I didn't wanta see you gettin' all excited, all pumped up with pride, when I knew one day it would all come crashin' down. Just like it did. 
JOE I think I spent the last couple years hopin' I'd die before that day. But you know what Dad? That day came and I'm still here. And I got one more game this year. I don't know how well I'll play or even how much, but I want you there. 
JOE'S DAD How would you feel introducing your drunk dad to all your friends? You think about that? 
JOE I could live with it, if you could. (handing him a ticket) Here's a ticket. Section 2, Row 6. Fifty yard line. If you don't come, I'll never ask you again. 
JOE'S DAD O.K., Joey. And good luck. 
They give each other a short, quick hug. Nothing sentimental. Joe walks back through the house. His dad stares out at the yard. 
INT. COLLEGE LIBRARY - NIGHT 
Darnell is up late again, studying at one of the tables. He hears footsteps, becomes aware of the presence of another person. He looks up to see Autumn. 
DARNELL Hey, Autumn. How's Ray? 
AUTUMN Don't know. Haven't seen him since the night I saw you. He'd been goin' out. 
DARNELL Monica Lambert. 
AUTUMN You knew? Why didn't you tell me? 
DARNELL Didn't wanta win you over that way. 
Silence. Darnell looks back at his books. 
AUTUMN I just wondered how your studying was comin'. You ready for tomorrow? 
DARNELL The test? I hope so. I been workin' pretty hard. 
AUTUMN Good... (sitting down) I talked to my dad last night. 
DARNELL Oh, yeah? How's he doin? 
AUTUMN Fine. We talked about you. 
DARNELL What did you say? 
AUTUMN (eyes brimming) I told him I'd gone out with you... I told him I wished I could still go bowling. 
Darnell gets up and pulls her to her feet. He hugs her. 
MUSIC BEGINS 
INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - AFTERNOON 
Darnell is bent over his test booklet. He writes furiously, stops to think, starts writing again. 
EXT. PRACTICE FIELD - DAY 
Joe takes a snap, fades to pass, throws an out. The ball flutters badly, falling short. 
CLAYTON He's rusty. I doubt if we can start him. 
WINTERS (simmering) He's worse than that. He's outa shape. (blowing his whistle) All right, that's enough for today. Practice is cancelled. Everybody off the field, but Kane. (the players hesitate) C'mon what the hell are you standin' around lookin' at? Get outa here. 
The players, surprised at this turn of events, begin to file off. Even the coaches are baffled. Winters walks over to Joe, who has no idea what this is about. 
WINTERS Didn't do much while you were in there, did ya? 
JOE Well, we didn't exactly have a team... 
WINTERS You could've worked out on your own. 
JOE I had some other things to worry about... 
WINTERS Well, we're gonna make up for lost time. We'll start by hoppin' the steps. 
JOE Hoppin' the steps?! What, you're gonna punish me now. 
He catches the snap, boots the ball away. 
Darnell fields it at his 12, starts toward the right sideline, where hemmed in, he looks like dead meat. Suddenly, he reverses his field, racing for the opposite sideline, where a picket line of blockers awaits him, if he can get there. He turns on the jets, barely beating two tacklers to the corner, and then turns it up the left sideline, picking up a wicked series of crack-back blocks, until he's finally run out of bounds at the Yellow Jacket 35 yard line. 
ON STANDS 
The E.S.U. fans are on their feet. Winters races over to Joe. 
WINTERS Time for 2 plays. If it's not open in the end zone, take the sideline. As the offense runs onto the field, Winters checks the scoreboard. 17 seconds left. Georgia Tech 10. E.S.U. 
INT. WOLF DEN STADIUM - AFTERNOON 
Joe brings the Wolves up. 
HARVEY (V.O.) Ball on the Yellow Jacket 35. 17 seconds left. Kane barking signals. 
Joe takes the snap, drops to pass, finds no one, rolls away from the rush. Just as he's about to go out of bounds, he fires a bullet down the sideline. Ray Griffen catches it and goes out of bounds at the twelve. 
ANGLE ON SIDELINE 
Joe runs over to Coach Winters, knowing they have no more time outs, as the refs move the chains. 
HARVEY (V.O.) Field goal here ties it, but a tie may not get the Wolves into a bowl. Tough decision for Winters. 
WINTERS (to Joe) You want me to send in the kicking team or you think you can handle it? 
JOE Give me the ball. 
WINTERS O.K., let's do 24 inside slot, left blue lightning. 
ON FIELD 
Joe races back out onto the field and into the huddle, as the crowd's roar goes off the charts. 
JOE (in huddle) O.K., 24 inside slot, left blue lightning. Let's put the women and children to bed, and go lookin' for fuckin' dinner. On 2. 
He starts the wolf howl. The others join in, howling for all they're worth, eleven jacked-up warriors. They clap and break the huddle. 
The crowd is standing, waving fists in unison toward the Georgia Tech end zone. Joe looks up in the stands again at the seat he left for his father. It's still empty. 
JOE This one's for you, Dad. 
Joe starts to call signals as Bud Lite sings "Bali Hi." We go to SLOW MOTION as the ball is snapped. 
The Georgia Tech defense fires off the line, throwing everything at Joe. Joe drops back five steps. Bud Lite picks up a blitzing linebacker, knocks him over a fallen player. Joe looks for Darnell in the corner, but another pass rusher breaks through, forcing Joe out of the pocket. It's wartime as tackles and blockers collide, hand-fight, go down, scramble up, collide again, all in pursuit of Joe. 
Darnell, realizing Joe's in trouble, breaks off his pattern and heads to the center of the end zone. Joe dodges one tackler, shakes free of another's ankle tackle, heads back for the center of the field. He spots Darnell breaking between defensive backs. Just as he's buried by two massive linemen, Joe fires a rocket down the middle toward the sliver of open space that Darnell is heading for. 
The ball barely clears the hands of a lunging linebacker. Darnell and two defensive backs, one from each side, close on the ball as it cuts through the air, a perfect spiral. Darnell dives. The two defensive backs dive. The ball passes between their outstretched hands by a fraction of an inch, landing in Darnell's. He clutches it to his chest, rolls over, holds the ball up for the ref to see. Touchdown! This time Darnell does go into his touchdown dance. 
ANGLE ON STANDS 
Pandemonium. The crowd including Autumn and her dad goes crazy. Winters just gives a few quick nods, watching almost wistfully as the players and coaches hug each other, knowing none of them will hug him. Joe, Bud and the others mob Darnell. 
INT. ALVIN'S SHACK - DAY 
Alvin listens to the celebration a few beats, then switches off the radio, knowing this is an experience he'll never be a part of again. We leave him staring off into an uncertain future. 
INT. CHANCELLOR'S SKY-BOX - DAY 
The Chancellor and his guests are celebrating the victory, congratulating each other. Conspicuous among them are the Fat Cat Alumnus who gave Darnell the money, and the Chairman of the Board of Regents. 
CHAIRMAN Looks like the Timberwolves are back. Probably brought the library with them. 
CHANCELLOR Hope so. (turning to Galen Howard) Give my sincere congratulations to Coach Winters. 
HOWARD He'll be delighted. 
The Fat Cat Alumnus goes to a replica of the Building Fund football field and starts advancing the ball. 
FAT CAT ALUMNUS 15,10, touchdown! 
This brings applause all around. 
EXT. WOLF DEN STADIUM - AFTERNOON 
