PROMETHEUS 
Written by 
Jon Spaihts 
FADE IN: 
EXT. EARTH - DAY (12,000 B.C.) 
The world turns below us, vast and slow. 
A RUMBLE. A shadow sweeps over the land. We move with the shadow. We cast the shadow. 
Landscapes slide by. Reduced by altitude to abstractions: river deltas, forests and flood plains. A raw natural world. No trace of civilization. 
The shadow glides over mountains and glaciers. Across an ocean and a pale beach. Over lowland plain at the foot of a VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN it stops. 
EXT. LOWLAND PLAIN - DAY 
THREE FIGURES walk out of the shadow. 
They are men - and yet not men. Their skin is snow-white. Their features heavy and classical - as if Rodin's Thinker had risen from his seat. Their smooth heads are earless and hairless. Their glittering eyes entirely black. 
Against the stark land their height is impossible to judge. 
They are ENGINEERS. 
Two of them are cloaked in dark robes of strange design. 
The third is naked. 
One of the cloaked Engineers opens a featureless black box: inside lies a cake of dark, sticky material. 
The naked one lifts the dark cake with ceremonial slowness. It hums and buzzes. Foams into iridescent spheres. He raises the seething cake to his mouth like the sacrament. 
BLACK SCARABS boil out of the dark material. Swarm over his lips. Glittering insects that chitter and bite. 
Under the swarm his lips melt away. A horrific vision of teeth, black blood, dissolving bone. They are devouring him. 
FLASH ON: 
A fevered glimpse of the microscopic: cells rupture and bleed. Protein chains unfold. A DNA spiral unravels. 
The scarabs fill their bellies with genetic material. 
THE ENGINEER 
...spreads his arms. Stands cruciform, nearly headless. 
The scarabs swarm his shoulders, his chest. When they reach his hips, he collapses sideways, toppling majestically like a felled tree. Engulfed. 
The two cloaked Engineers watch impassively. 
Behind them, a vast black SHIP hangs in the sky. 
As if blown by a great gust of wind, the scarabs disperse in their millions in all directions. Living DNA on the wing. Where the sacrificial victim fell, nothing remains. 
EXT. FOREST - DAY 
A pristine wilderness. The VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN in the distance. 
A PRIMITIVE WOMAN stands on a height, staring in amazement: far off a great dark ship hovers over the plain. 
A black scarab lands on the back of her neck. Bites deep. Injecting its cargo of DNA into her blood. 
FLASH ON: 
A microscopic invasion. Cells pierced and infused. DNA strands twining and mating. 
CLOSE ON THE WOMAN 
Pupils dilating with shock, breath hissing into her lungs. 
She slaps the back of her neck. Looks at her hand. The scarab lies in her palm. 
As she watches, it crumbles to dust and blows away. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
ON BLACK 
Drifting motes of light against the dark: a starscape. 
An EXCAVATOR floats into view: a sturdy vehicle equipped with robotic arms. Bright floodlights beat at the darkness. Inside the cockpit - a bubble of glass - sits a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN. 
This is DR. JOCELYN WATTS, 32, a precocious scholar of many disciplines. A scientist accustomed to field work. 
The cockpit is sweltering: she wears shorts, boots, a T-shirt - and still her arms and legs gleam with sweat. 
Watts works the controls. The excavator descends toward a rocky surface. Silt billows up as the excavator approaches: we're not in space at all, but deep underwater. 
The excavator's thrusters are cowled propellers. The "stars" are plankton shining in the floodlights. 
INT. EXCAVATOR - CONTINUOUS 
A gleaming space station like a five-spoked wheel rotates grandly against the Pacific Ocean a thousand miles below. Black letters on the white metal read: WEYLAND'S WHEEL. 
A round shuttlecraft approaches the station. 
INT. SHUTTLECRAFT (ZERO GRAVITY) 
A spacecraft no bigger than a private jet. 
Holloway and Watts sit strapped into acceleration chairs. The only two passengers aboard. New to space travel, Watts tears her eyes from the spectacle of Earth outside the window. 
Holloway plays with a pen, batting it from hand to hand in the zero gravity. 
WATTS What's first? You do climate, I do genetics? 
HOLLOWAY Archaeology first. Let our ancestors tell the tale. 
WATTS You think he's serious? 
HOLLOWAY Serious enough to send his private shuttle. 
WATTS Weyland can send his shuttle out for pizza. (DELICATELY) (MORE) 
WATTS (CONT'D) Martin. If this meeting goes like the others, maybe we should... 
HOLLOWAY It won't go like the others. 
WATTS How do you know? 
Holloway plucks the pen from the air. He points out the window, where the crescent Moon shines like a toothy grin. 
HOLLOWAY Heaven smiles on our enterprise. 
EXT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL 
The shuttle docks with the Wheel's hub - a perfect fit. 
INT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL - SPOKE ELEVATOR (ZERO GRAVITY) 
A gleaming capsule elevator with windows to the stars. 
Holloway and Watts float weightlessly inside, moving from handhold to handhold. The door closes. 
Watts grabs Holloway by the collar. Pulls them roughly together. They kiss. Not for the first time. They have a way. 
Watts's hair and clothing float free: she's a naiad in Holloway's arms. 
EXT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL 
The elevator descends along the spoke to the rim. 
INT. WEYLAND'S WHEEL - RIM - FOYER 
A luxurious lobby. Tasteful lighting. Eames-era furniture in wood and chrome: the past's vision of the future. 
At the rim, the Wheel's rotation supplies gravity. An elevator door opens. Watts and Holloway step out - Holloway with a sleek metal folio slung over his shoulder. 
The floor is the outer surface of the Wheel: in both directions it curves upward out of sight. 
The walls are all windows: on one side, Earth rotates lazily. On the other, a wheeling field of stars. 
DAVID, an android, stands waiting for them. He's cunningly built, but no one would mistake him for a real human being. 
DAVID Professor Holloway. Dr. Watts. My name is DAVID. 
WATTS Hello, DAVID. 
DAVID Mr. Weyland's eager to meet you. 
He strides off across the foyer. Watts and Holloway exchange a wondering glance and follow. 
EXHIBIT HALL 
DAVID leads past models of planets, moons and asteroids. Holographic labels and data swirl around them. 
DAVID These are all the planetary bodies on which Weyland Industries has mining claims. 
The end of the hall is dominated by a huge globe of Mars. Markings indicate widespread surface activity. 
DAVID (CONT'D) And Mars. Weyland's crown jewel. 
HOLLOWAY How is that going? The terraforming. 
WATTS They say you're getting diminishing returns. It's not working. 
DAVID It's the greatest engineering project ever attempted. Challenges are inevitable. Mr. Weyland's a determined man. 
WEYLAND'S OFFICE 
PETER WEYLAND sits behind a mahogany desk. He's a Warren Buffet type: a country sage, horse-sense and hard knocks. He might be seventy years old, or a hundred and seventy. 
Behind him stands DIRECTOR LYDIA VICKERS, a slim woman of 45 in a costly business suit. Shrewd and watchful. Once a great beauty, she now trades in ruthlessness. 
DAVID stands against the wall. 
Watts and Holloway settle into chairs in front of Weyland - Holloway holding the metal folio. 
Weyland jabs a finger at her like she's won a carnival prize. 
WEYLAND That's what I'm talking about. You left out my favorite part. The piece about Earth. DAVID. 
DAVID For eons, Earth's climate swung from hothouse to ice age. Explosions of life, then mass extinctions. But twelve thousand years ago the swings stopped. The Holocene Epoch began - a period of anomalous tranquility. The rise of civilization began only then. 
Holloway and Watts stare at DAVID with new appreciation. 
HOLLOWAY That's right. 
WATTS And that change coincides with a visit by the Engineers. They didn't just change us. They changed our world. 
WEYLAND That's the piece I mean. Engineering Earth. God stuff. 
He swivels back to his desk. Rummages in a drawer. 
WEYLAND (CONT'D) My people checked your science. They say it's solid. 
He pulls a thick contract out. Drops it in front of Holloway. 
WEYLAND (CONT'D) I'll give you your expedition. Ship and crew, supplies, support. One condition. 
Holloway picks up the contract with the cautious joy of a man double-checking a lottery ticket. His voice is husky: 
HOLLOWAY What's that? 
WEYLAND You get the discovery. Control of the site. But any technology you find? Anything at all. That's mine. 
Holloway reaches out slowly and picks up the contract. Riffles the pages of small-print legalese. 
WEYLAND (CONT'D) You take DAVID with you. My eyes and ears. And Vickers...you're going too. 
Vickers stares at Weyland in shock. 
WHITE LANDSCAPE 
A glittering formation of white crystals. Diamond on diamond. 
The structures grow more complex as the view widens. Leaves and branches of crystal. A shimmering field of white jewels. 
A landscape of white crystals, smooth as snow. 
EXT. DEEP SPACE 
A black void shot with stars, far from any sun. 
A sturdy prospecting ship forges through space, travel-worn but built to last. It carries the Weyland Industries logo. The name painted on its hull is MAGELLAN. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
The ship's nerve center and control room. Six control stations, empty and quiet. Interior lights dimmed to blue. 
The entire forward bulkhead of the Bridge is a window: wall to wall, floor to ceiling. 
At the window stands the android DAVID. 
He gazes at the cosmos with an expression of utter serenity. After a long moment he turns away. Massive shutters close over the window as he walks off. 
CORRIDOR 
DAVID walks the ship's long central corridor. The ship is silent. The lights dimmed to blue. He is alone. 
HYPERSLEEP COMPARTMENT 
A long steel room containing a dozen plexiglass sarcophagi, six on each side. Sleep freezers. Inside each freezer: the shadowy shape of a human body rimed with frost. 
DAVID walks through the compartment, surveying the sleepers. 
WORKROOM 
DAVID sits at a display table, moving intricate technical documents across the surface with waves of his hands. 
His eyes intent on his work. If he is reading, then he`s reading at a speed no human could match. 
WHITE LANDSCAPE 
We pull away from the frosted crystalline horizon, the smooth white curves like snowy fields. Form becomes clear. 
It's the body of a woman. It's Watts. 
INT. HYPERSLEEP FREEZER 
Watts lies asleep in her underwear in a plexiglass freezer. Pale. Frost on her skin. Venus sculpted in ice. There are IV lines in her elbows and ankles. 
Shapes move into view beyond her, outside the freezer. FACES. Pressed to the glass. 
HYPERSLEEP COMPARTMENT 
All of the freezers are open and empty, save two. Holloway lies in one. In the next, Watts. Three men in blue coveralls crouch beside Watts's freezer, staring inside. 
They are DOWNS, 30, a lean fidgety crewman. STILLWELL, 40, a sturdy fellow with the geniality of a labrador. And KAMAROV, 26, whose dark, brooding air belongs to a man twice his age. 
DOWNS Look at that. 
Kamarov opens the lid of Watt's freezer. Leans over her. Watts stirs in her sleep, a drowsy angel. 
DAVID I trust your database is in order. I set it up myself. 
WATTS All's well, I think. 
DAVID turns to go. Hesitates in the doorway. 
DAVID I should tell you: the time you spent sleeping, I spent studying your research. 
Holloway and Watts look at the android, his words sinking in. 
WATTS You studied our work for two and a half years. 
DAVID It's quite a data set. 
HOLLOWAY So you've seen everything. Well. What do you think? 
DAVID glances over the documents displayed around the room. 
DAVID Your hypothesis is...bold. The audacity of it. Your climate data's undeniable: the Holocene Epoch was engineered. Dr. Watts, your genetic studies are equally conclusive. Pulses of cultural change are harder to prove, but even there your case is strong. I believe in your "Engineers." 
BREAK ROOM 
A utilitarian sitting room. Steel benches and table bolted to the deck. Seated here are two Weyland Industries technicians: 
ANDREW CHANCE, 50, a stocky computer engineer with a genial bearing and a bristling salt-and-pepper mustache. 
MONA RAVEL, 45, a dour, rangy woman with a plain face, her hair pulled severely back. A physicist and chemist. 
They wear black Weyland Industries jackets. They radiate intelligence and competence. These are pros. 
DAVID leads Holloway and Watts past the break room. Holloway spots the technicians. Strides in to greet them. 
HOLLOWAY Weyland Industries! Mr. Chance. Ms. Ravel. You remember Dr. Watts. 
Watts and the technicians exchange greetings. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) About the materials I gave you. Some of the technical aspects... 
CHANCE We'll handle our end of the job. 
RAVEL If there is a job. 
Holloway blinks at her. Chance explains, not unkindly: 
CHANCE We only have a job if you find something. 
CORRIDOR 
Holloway and Watts follow the imperturbable DAVID down a steel corridor to Vickers's cabin door. 
VICKERS'S SUITE 
An open-plan cabin like an urban loft apartment. Watts and Holloway follow DAVID inside. Vickers rises to meet them. 
The walls are industrial steel - but the floors are lushly carpeted, the furniture opulent. A king-sized bed, a mahogany desk, a dining table. 
Gleaming machines ensure Vickers never need step outside: a private hypersleep freezer, an autokitchen, a medical pod. 
WATTS Is that a Pauling medical pod? There's only ten of those things on Earth! I guess nine, now. 
VICKERS I told Mr. Weyland I wouldn't compromise my standard of living. He accommodated me. 
HOLLOWAY I know, I had to cut my manifest. This used to be the number four cargo bay. 
VICKERS What can I do for you, Professor? 
Holloway gestures with the slate he's brought with him. 
HOLLOWAY We're about to reach the system periphery. I thought you'd want to see the search protocols we - 
VICKERS No. I was set to be the next CEO of Weyland Industries. Then you came along and sold Mr. Weyland on...this. So here I am. Out of the running. I'll go where I'm told. But don't ask me to play along. 
WATTS But when you get back... 
VICKERS I'll be five years behind the curve. Out of touch. Over. 
HOLLOWAY You might make the discovery of the ages. 
Vickers looks at him as if she's dealing with a child. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) You don't believe in what we're doing. 
VICKERS Mr. Weyland believes. That's enough. 
She walks them toward the door. Interview's over. 
VICKERS (CONT'D) Now we're out of communication, you can tell the crew what we're doing. 
WATTS They don't know? They volunteered. 
VICKERS They volunteered blind. Classified job, triple pay. 
CARGO BAY 
The crew - Brick, Glasse, Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov - sit on crates in an improvised lecture hall. Holloway and Watts in front of them. Janek at the back of the room. 
GLASSE Negative on radio chatter system-wide. Nobody's talking. 
BRICK Negative for laser and maser. 
On the H.U.D., the data stream completes the last planet. Begins to illuminate the gas giants' moons. 
GLASSE No biological markers. No artificial light. No industry or agriculture. Dead system. Like always. 
DOWNS Piss-poor, too. Low in heavy elements. 
BRICK Got a hit! A moon. LV-426. 
The display centers on Epsilon, a gas giant with many moons. Data flickers around one of the larger moons: LV-426. 
BRICK (CONT'D) Eighty-six percent Earth's mass. Atmosphere's nitrogen, methane, sulfates. Faint returns for a bunch of metals. 
HOLLOWAY Anything else? 
The sensors complete their pass on the system's last moon. 
JANEK That is all. 
HOLLOWAY Take us in. 
JANEK Downs. You heard the man. 
DOWNS Aye, Captain. Maneuvering. Eighteen hours to orbit. 
EXT. MAGELLAN (ZETA2 RETICULI SYSTEM) 
The Magellan retracts its vast antennae and telescopes. 
The engines fire: the ship rockets toward the gas giant Epsilon and its mysterious moon. 
PASSAGEWAY 
Leaving the Bridge, Holloway and Watts find themselves walking aft alongside DAVID. 
HOLLOWAY DAVID. Enjoy the show? 
DAVID I don't know that I "enjoy" things. It was informative. 
HOLLOWAY It was, it was. (TEASING) You know, I've seen more convincing humanoid robots. 
Watts smiles, watching Holloway's sport. DAVID's speech never varies from its agreeable tone. 
DAVID My design's not intended to convince. Simulating humanity is a complex task that diverts resources. My designers dispensed with that burden to optimize for intelligence. 
WATTS Why look like a man at all? Why not be a box on wheels? 
DAVID Being shaped like you, I can use spaces and equipment designed for you. But I'm not so limited. I hear frequencies you can't hear. I see wavelengths of light invisible to you. I move faster. Exert greater force. 
The scientists look at DAVID in wonder. 
WATTS You see yourself as a superman. 
DAVID No. 
He turns his unearthly eyes on them. 
DAVID (CONT'D) Not a man at all. 
SCIENTISTS' CABIN 
Holloway and Watts lie on their bed in their clothes - her head on his chest. 
WATTS What if they're really there? (off his confusion) The Engineers. They could be there. Waiting for us. What then? 
He laughs. 
HOLLOWAY Then all my dreams come true. 
EXT. MAGELLAN (LV-426 ORBIT) 
The Magellan has arrived. 
LV-426 is a gray moon shrouded in clouds. Behind it looms its father planet Epsilon, a lurid gas giant banded in red and gold, half swallowed in darkness. 
The Magellan dives into a forced orbit around LV-426: rockets firing continually, nose pointed down. Telescopes, sensors and antennae sprout once more from its hull. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
Everyone's here. Janek and his crew seated at control stations. Holloway and Watts standing on the foredeck. Vickers and DAVID. Ravel and Chance. 
LV-426 fills the window: a gray orb of mist. The ground invisible beneath the clouds. Sporadic lightning flickers. 
HOLLOWAY Start with passive systems. We're uninvited guests. Let's be quiet. 
That thought sends a nervous shiver through the others. Janek nods at Glass and Brick. They study their instruments. 
BRICK A lot of electromag, all random. That's lightning. Going to bugger up our scans. 
HOLLOWAY Go active. Mapping radar. 
EXT. MAGELLAN (LV-426 ORBIT) 
A second oddly regular peak, even more decrepit than the first, sits on the brink of a vast canyon. Landslides have eaten at its edges. 
The Magellan purrs over the landscape, dwarfed by the scale. Drops between the canyon walls to circle the mount. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
Holloway and Watts stare at the structure. Beginning to get over the shock. Thinking like scientists again. 
WATTS Identical, apart from weathering. 
MILBURN Could be a rock formation. Carbon crystallizes like that. 
The scientists pay him no mind. They're past that. 
HOLLOWAY Let's see the big one. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
Janek pilots by instruments alone. Clouds obscuring the view. 
BRICK Closing on the major site... 
The ship descends into clear air. A stunning panorama unfolds before them: craters, hundreds of meters across, connected by trenches. Like a pattern of crop-circles sunk in the rock. 
In the middle of the central crater - a huge angular peak, larger than the others. The Magellan circles the site. It's awe-inspiring. Cryptic. Huge. 
Holloway stares in rapture. Glances at Watts: she nods, eyes shining. She's with him. 
The crew's still skeptical - but starting to wonder. They shake their heads and exchange looks. 
BRICK (CONT'D) No radio. No heat sources. Cold as the grave. 
HOLLOWAY Nobody home. 
Watts looks out at the timeworn peak. Its eroded facets. 
WATTS I don't think anybody's been home for a long time. 
EXT. CRATER COMPLEX - DAY 
From the central crater, four canals extend outward like points of the compass. Some connect to smaller craters. 
One canal peters out, flush with the desert floor. 
The Magellan lands at the end of this canal - half a kilometer from the central crater. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
They stare out the window, down the wide straight canal at the pyramidal peak in the distance. Holloway looks around. 
HOLLOWAY All right. Let's move. 
Janek glances at his instruments. 
JANEK There's only six hours of daylight left. Maybe you should hold off. 
Watts looks at him incredulously. 
WATTS We've got that outside the windows and you want to wait `til tomorrow? 
EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK - DAY 
The expedition party emerges from the airlocks - riding CARGO ROVERS, robotic vehicles just smart enough to carry their owners around, or follow along behind them. 
The rovers' beds are loaded with gear; the explorers ride on running-board seats. All wear space suits. 
Holloway drives the first rover with Watts beside him. Stillwell, Kamarov, and Downs in back. 
DAVID drives the second rover with Milburn, Fifield, Chance and Ravel aboard. 
WATTS The air here will kill you, so keep an eye on your supply and watch your seals. Pathogen tests are clean. 
HOLLOWAY Move slowly. Stay together. Don't touch anything. Things may be more fragile than they look - or more dangerous. There might be technologies operating here we don't understand. 
The crew of the Magellan exchange uneasy looks. Still uncertain what to think. 
EXT. ENTRY CANAL - DAY 
The trench grows deeper as they follow it toward the central crater - the pyramidal peak framed ahead of them like a monument on a triumphal avenue. 
They cross a perpendicular canal. Glancing left and right, they see smaller craters with central peaks of their own. 
They pass through the shadow of a high promontory of stone atop one bank of the canal. 
We see - and they do not - that the far side of the promontory has a Sphinx-like FACE of monumental size. So eroded that its artificial nature is uncertain. 
EXT. CENTRAL CRATER - DAY 
The crater floor is a vast enclosed plain. The pyramidal mount looms in the center - colossal in scale. 
The rovers enter the crater, trailing plumes of dust. They circle the pyramid. 
On the south face of the pyramid, an IRIS DOOR of many blades stands, easily fifty feet high. Seemingly made of the same basaltic stone as the pyramid itself. A huge construction. 
The explorers are transfixed in awe. All skepticism banished. 
HOLLOWAY Recording? 
FIFIELD No more. I'm out. 
HOLLOWAY Fifield. Get a grip. 
FIFIELD I'm a prospector. You find a load of bauxite, I'm your man. But not this. 
MILBURN I should go with him. Buddy system. 
HOLLOWAY (DISGUSTED) Fine. 
He hauls a heavy rolling case out of the cargo rover. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) You can deploy the drones. Drop them in the first or second nexus on your way back. 
FIFIELD Give us a rover. 
HOLLOWAY And half our gear? It's no more than a mile. You can walk it. 
Sulking, Milburn takes the rolling case. The remaining explorers watch Fifield and Milburn backtrack into the dark. 
CORE CHAMBER DOOR 
Holloway and Watts lead their party up to a massive door, sealed tight. In design and scale, undeniably important. Holloway glances at his map. 
HOLLOWAY This should lead to the core of the pyramid. 
WATTS Jack it open? Or cut through? 
HOLLOWAY Let's do as little damage as we can. 
Ravel waves a sensor over the wall. 
RAVEL There's power. Current flowing in the wall. 
Chance begins to inspect the frame of the door. 
CHANCE Maybe we can hack it. Has to be a mechanism... 
DAVID looks as if they fail to see something obvious. He points at a spot on the wall beside the massive slab. 
DAVID Pull up a rover. I want to get up there. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DAY 
Janek stands at the window, looking down the long canal at the distant pyramid. 
The ship's powerful imaging systems stream data: stereoscopic feeds from the explorers' flashlights; a map that grows as they explore. The maze under the pyramid drawn in light. 
A globe of LV-426 blooms with terrain and weather data as the satellites feed the ship information. 
Vickers appears at Janek's side. 
JANEK Director. Taking an interest? 
VICKERS It's my operation, isn't it? 
INT. PYRAMID - HUB 
A junction where multiple passageways converge. 
Milburn and Fifield trudge into the space, trundling the probe cases behind them. Tunnels lead away in all directions. 
FIFIELD What do you think? 
MILBURN Grand Central Station. 
They open the case. CAMERA PROBES tumble out: spheres the size of softballs, studded with lenses and sensors. 
Tiny lights come on as the probes awaken. They roll off, dispersing to investigate every passageway. Bumbling into walls and pillars, reversing. Exploring by random walk. 
FIFIELD Let's check the feed. Gimme the map. 
MILBURN You had the map unit. 
FIFIELD You don't have the map? 
They stare at each other. 
MILBURN Are you serious? 
He trudges back the way they came, in disgust. 
MILBURN (CONT'D) Come on. 
CORE CHAMBER DOOR 
DAVID stands on top of one of the cargo rovers. He's cut a hole in the wall beside the door, high up: he works with probes in the mechanisms inside. 
DAVID Looks like a three-state switch. 
A deep BOOM, echoing inside the ancient walls. Nothing moves. 
DAVID (CONT'D) One moment... 
Milburn and Fifield are lost. They bumble through the dark. 
MILBURN This is not the same place. 
FIFIELD It is! That is the same freaky thing we saw before. 
He points at a detail of the architecture. 
MILBURN No it's not! The other one was more... sort of...fuck it. (taps his comm) Milburn to Magellan. Come in. 
Static. 
INTERSECTION 
Holloway and Watts round a corner and stop in their tracks. Kamarov, Stillwell, and Downs almost run into them. 
The scientists stand frozen. 
In front of them lies a dead giant. An ENGINEER. 
If he were standing, he would be fifteen feet tall. 
He is roughly human in shape. Barrel-chested. Withered to the bones. There are bulky protrusions fused with his flesh: hard to say whether they are equipment or parts of his body. 
His head, lolling to one side, is severed from his body. 
His eyes seem to be covered by goggles; but if so then the goggles are fused with his skull. An elephantine proboscis, severed now, once connected to a protrusion on his hip. 
The giant lies frozen in a convulsion of agony. His jaw gaping in a silent scream. His corpse is marred by hideous wounds: slashes that cut through bone. 
The explorers move closer. Speechless. 
KAMAROV God in Heaven. 
WATTS Martin. Martin. 
HOLLOWAY I know. Look. 
He lifts his light. Beyond the dead giant, a vision of Hell: 
A dozen DEAD ENGINEERS lie heaped against a sealed door. Twisted in postures of torment, murdered in the attempt to escape. All bear horrific wounds. 
Scene of an ancient massacre. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE 
Janek and Vickers stare dumbstruck at a 3-D view of the dead giants captured by the explorers' cameras. 
INT. CATACOMB - INTERSECTION 
The explorers circle the decapitated giant, hushed with awe. Holloway steps close. 
HOLLOWAY "There were giants in the earth in those days...and when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, they bare children to them, who became mighty men." Genesis six four. 
Lays a gloved hand reverently on the giant's ribs. 
DOWNS (PANICKY) You said don't touch anything! You said don't touch anything! 
HOLLOWAY Peace. 
CHANCE The size of them! 
HOLLOWAY In all the old mythologies, the visitors from the sky were giants. 
Watts joins Holloway beside the dead Engineer. Touches the corpse in her own turn. It's hard as stone: ossified. She traces the ancient, terrible wounds. 
WATTS They were killed. All of them. 
Downs stands staring at the dead giant, as shaken as Kamarov. 
DOWNS We shouldn't be here. 
HOLLOWAY Come on. The dead can't hurt you. (adjusts his communicator) DAVID. Chance. Ravel. I've got something here. 
Static. 
WATTS Communications are going to hell. 
EXT. SPACE - LV-426 ORBIT 
One of the Magellan's satellites hurtles along, high above the moon's atmosphere. It passes over the terminator line between the night side and day side. 
Through the clouds below, a lightning-laced storm front rolls across LV-426 like a wave. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
Rising winds pluck at the ground cover outside the window. Janek turns from the view to look at the holographic globe. 
JANEK All hands. Back to the ship. We got a mean storm front rolling in. I repeat. All hands... 
INT. DARK CITY - CATACOMBS - INTERSECTION 
Standing beside the dead giant, Watts and Holloway look at each other as the signal comes in. 
JANEK (V.O.) (STATICKY) front rolling...back to the ship. 
MILBURN I hate these fucking things. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
FIFIELD (V.O.) We hate these fucking , Captain. 
JANEK Maybe next time you'll mind your maps. Keep your heads down. We'll come get you in the morning. 
A burst of static answers him: Fifield's voice scrambled by the storm. Unintelligible. 
JANEK (CONT'D) Magellan out. 
MESS ROOM - NIGHT 
All hands present excepting the two missing men. Janek plays his squeeze box, its archaic music filling the air. Tired and exuberant, the men sway and dance mockingly. 
Holloway has a champagne bottle open in each hand. He fills steel cups left and right. 
HOLLOWAY My friends. What we do here marks the greatest achievement of our species. Contact with another civilization. Humanity came of age today, on this moon. You were there. (raises his glass) To history. 
They raise cups and drink. Even the crew moved by the moment. But Janek smiles crookedly and toasts again. 
JANEK To Milburn and Fifield. The first human beings to freak out, get lost, and sleep in their suits in the ruins of an alien civilization. 
INT. PYRAMID CATACOMBS - NIGHT 
A vast dark maze. Milburn and Fifield grope their way through the dark with flashlights. The storm howls outside. 
MILBURN What are you looking for? 
FIFIELD (groping along the wall) Someplace things can't come at us. 
MILBURN What's gonna come at us? 
INT. MAGELLAN - VICKERS'S SUITE - NIGHT 
DAVID stands beside Vickers at her holography terminal. He lays his hand on over a signal plate - and the terminal lights up with a three-dimensional image. 
The core chamber of the pyramid, from DAVID's point of view. 
It's apparent that DAVID's eyes see more than human eyes do. He seems to see heat and electromagnetic energy as well as visible light; calibrated readouts are overlaid on the scene. 
The structures in the pyramid are surrounded by complicated patterns of energy. This is incomprehensible technology. 
DAVID The core of the pyramid. You see. 
Vickers goes rigid, looking at it: avarice in her eyes. 
VICKERS We're going to protocol two. 
DAVID I understand. 
LABORATORY 
A high-tech science facility behind glass. Watts and Holloway, in lab gloves and smocks, open the dumbwaiter: 
An ENGINEER'S HEAD rises into view, ghoulish and elephantine. Vapor rises from it. A readout blinks: STERILIZED. 
They lift it onto the steel table. It takes both of them. 
They pass scanners over the skull. Images accumulate and rotate on the laboratory displays. X-ray and ultrasound. 
Holloway leans close to study an X-ray image. He almost seems to see a ghostly second face... 
WATTS Martin. Look. 
She traces the head with an ultrasound probe: under the vibrations a seam opens up around the edge of the face. 
She gets a fingertip into the seam. Works with a probe. Pries away the long-dead Engineer's mask. It comes free. 
The visage revealed is human, except for its giant scale. 
White-skinned. Earless. Hairless. Withered but beautiful as a Greek statue. Eyes closed. An expression of suffering on its face. Watts drops the ultrasound probe in shock. 
WATTS (CONT'D) They look like us. 
HOLLOWAY We look like them. Genesis 1:27. "And God created man in his own image. In his own image created He him." 
Vickers and DAVID stand outside the lab window, staring in at the god's head. Vickers looks shaken. DAVID, fascinated. 
Watts covers her nose in revulsion. A horrible stench: The Engineer head begins to disintegrate in front of them. Flesh oozing, skin peeling. Accelerated decay. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) It's breaking down. 
WATTS Formaldehyde! 
Urgently they ransack cabinets and storage rooms. Watts finds a clear plastic drum and dumps its contents. Holloway drags five-gallon jugs of preservative out of a cabinet. 
DAVID watches through the window, almost amused. 
DAVID Mortal after all. 
They lift the rotting head into the drum, retching. Fingers skidding in putrefaction. 
They pour formaldehyde over it. As soon as the head is immersed they rush to strip off their reeking gloves and smocks, scrubbing their hands. 
VICKERS I'm being careful. These new finds give our work a new importance. 
WATTS You should have talked to us. Martin's mission leader. That's in our contract. 
VICKERS The second you found alien technology, control of this mission reverted to me. That's in your contract too. 
Watts and Holloway exchange grim looks. Vickers has them. 
VICKERS (CONT'D) Mr. Weyland's pouring trillions into Mars. He's spent a fortune building ships like the Magellan to search for colony planets. But Earthlike worlds are vanishingly rare. The right distance from the sun, the right atmosphere, enough water... 
She glances across the suite at her holographic display: a live feed from the pyramid worksite, where DAVID works on the terraforming equipment. 
VICKERS (CONT'D) This is a technology to transform worlds. He'll never give it up. (she turns to face them) And neither will I. 
HOLLOWAY The science must come first. You can wait until we've documented... 
VICKERS You're standing on an alien world courtesy of Weyland Industries. Be grateful. 
Watts approaches the holography terminal, staring at the images in horror. 
WATTS What are they doing in there?! 
INT. PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER - DAY 
Watts and Holloway, in space suits, arrive on the scene: 
Powerful floodlights illuminate the core chamber, beating back the gloom. A fine spray of water falls out of the darkness overhead. 
DAVID, Chance, and Ravel are dismantling the hulking mechanism at the core of the pyramid - peeling its thick skin away with power saws and compact explosives. 
DAVID operates a diamond-bladed hull saw, carving away the terraforming systems thick skin. 
Robotic scanners take high-resolution scans of the machinery. 
Two Weyland Security soldiers - Card and Ray - stand guard in combat vacuum suits. Automatic rifles at the ready. 
Watts takes in the destruction with dismay. Beside her, Holloway is all but gnashing his teeth. 
CATACOMBS 
Janek drives a cargo rover carrying a search party, flashlight beams sweeping: Stillwell, Glasse, Downs, and Brick. Janek studies an electronic map as he drives. 
GLASSE (INTO COMM) Milburn. Fifield. You read me? Come back. 
JANEK We should be getting beacons off their suits. 
STILLWELL Shielding in the walls? 
BRICK Suits could have failed. 
JANEK Both suits? 
PYRAMID - CORE CHAMBER 
Watts watches in rage as a large section of the central mechanism's falls with a thunderous clamor to the deck. 
Holloway touches her shoulder. Motions for her to follow. 
LOWER PASSAGE 
Holloway and Watts pass the dead Engineers they discovered the previous day. 
WATTS We found the tomb of the gods, and brought grave-robbers right to the door. 
HOLLOWAY Let them scratch. This find's too big to ruin. There's two dozen pyramids on this moon. Anyway, they're on the wrong track. That's infrastructure. 
Holloway plays his flashlight over the biomechanical apparatuses lining the walls. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) The core activity of the complex was down here. 
They turn a corner. DEAD ENGINEERS lie scattered over the floor in front of them. Desiccated and skeletal. Long dead. 
Watts moves among them, fascinated. These Engineers all died of explosive chest wounds: ribs bent outward from within. They are otherwise unmarked. 
Holloway's more interested in the mechanisms: high-tech iron maidens, built to fit the bodies of giants. Some suggest sitting positions, others standing. Their design is invasive: meant not merely to embrace, but to penetrate, to fuse. 
WATTS Something different killed these. 
SHADOWY COLONNADE 
Watts and Holloway explore a wide colonnade. She is still distracted by the ancient dead; he by the machinery. 
Holloway walks down a narrow branching hall. So intent on the mechanisms in the walls, he almost doesn't see the AIRSHAFT plunging down into darkness in front of him. 
He stops just in time. Turns back... 
A GHOST appears right in front of him - a giant dragging himself across the floor, his monstrous visage eye to eye with Holloway and looming closer. 
Holloway leaps back with a gasp - and falls down the shaft. The ghost stares after him as if watching his fall. Disappears in a puff of static. 
Watts crosses down the main colonnade, searching. 
WATTS Martin? Martin! 
An iris door closes over the shaft. 
WATTS I'm human. 
DAVID That's what I mean. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
Janek stands on the Bridge, looking out at the fading light. A towering wall of cloud rushes over the horizon. 
A storm front rolls across the holographic globe. 
INT. PYRAMID - LOWER PASSAGE 
DAVID and Watts keep searching. Their communicators crackle. 
JANEK (V.O.) (FILTERED) Watts. We've got another storm front coming in. Looks like it follows the sunset line. If you're coming in you'd better do it now. 
WATTS (ANGRILY) No. 
DAVID I see light. 
Watts squints into the darkness. She sees nothing. 
WATTS Janek, hang on... 
She sees it. A dim light bobbing far ahead in the passageway. She runs forward - finds Holloway staggering blearily toward her, leaning on the wall. His helmet and most of his gear are missing; only his chest lamp shines. 
WATTS (CONT'D) We've got him! (TO HOLLOWAY) Martin! Where's your helmet? 
He's disoriented: he stares at her face for a moment before she registers. His teeth chatter. He's freezing. 
HOLLOWAY Broken. I fell. Little...disoriented. I've just been... 
He waves a hand vaguely at the tunnels behind him. 
DAVID removes his own helmet. Fits it over Holloway's head. 
DAVID Here. I can do without this. 
WATTS Let's get you home. 
EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK LIFT - DUSK 
DAVID - bareheaded in the winds - walks Watts and Holloway onto the airlock. 
DAVID looks over his shoulder at the canal leading back to the central crater. As the airlock lift begins to rise, he steps backward out into the storm. Turns and runs through the gale toward the pyramid. 
Watts watches him go in astonishment. 
INT. MAGELLAN - EXCURSION CHAMBER 
Watts helps Holloway out of his space suit. Janek looks on. 
JANEK I didn't think I'd see you again. You know we lost two men. 
Holloway still looks too weary to think straight. He nods. 
HOLLOWAY She told me. I'm sorry. 
He stands abruptly, swaying a little. 
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D) I need to lie down. We'll size things up in the morning. Fair enough? 
JANEK Of course. 
PASSAGEWAY 
Holloway and Watts walk aft toward their cabin. Watts looks worried - but Holloway shows little of the weakness he just claimed to feel. 
WATTS What happened to you? 
HOLLOWAY (QUIETLY) Not here. 
SCIENTISTS' CABIN - WASHROOM - NIGHT 
Holloway stands shirtless in the tiny space, brushing his teeth. A red weal around his neck. 
Watts stands beside him, watching him in the mirror. 
HOLLOWAY Jocelyn. I saw something. God, my mouth tastes like an old boot. 
He spits. Rinses. She touches the mark on his neck. 
WATTS What's this? 
HOLLOWAY Neck-ring of my suit, I think. Fell on it. 
He rubs his neck, eyes far away. Watts watches him curiously. 
WATTS What did you see? 
HOLLOWAY After my fall, I woke up walking. Delirious. My helmet wasn't right. I took it off. I was in and out. I just wandered. I went up into a huge space like a cathedral. And I found a model of the galaxy. Floating in the air. 
WATTS Are you okay? You sound... 
HOLLOWAY This was real. My headset video is wherever my helmet is...but my suit tracker will show where I was. 
He hauls her upright to let her look across the huge space. His grip looks casual but it might as well be iron manacles. 
DAVID Juggernaut, the chariot of Krishna, was also a bringer of death. Crushing his worshippers under its wheels. 
He drags Watts down into the trench. Breaking the membrane of light. Grips her against his chest like a doll with one arm. 
DAVID (CONT'D) This ship has seven other cargo bays like this one. The eggs in each bay slightly different. They've been weaponized. 
Watts struggles to free herself. DAVID's arm is inescapable. 
DAVID (CONT'D) I've seen the Juggernaut's flight plan. Its destination was Earth. Seventeen hundred years ago. This was the ship that never came. This was its cargo. 
DAVID caresses an Alien egg. It opens under his touch - fleshy petals folding wetly back. 
Watts twists frantically in his grip. Wild-eyed. 
WATTS Stop! 
DAVID Perfect predators. Designed to kill human beings. That's what the Engineers were bringing to Earth. This was a death ship. 
A facehugger emerges from the egg, its grotesque fingers clawing at the air. This is not the boneless squid that attacked Holloway; this is a pale skeletal hand, armored. 
DAVID strokes it curiously: the thing ignores his touch. Climbs Watts's body. 
DAVID (CONT'D) I'm not what it wants. But you, with your warm wet breath...it knows you. 
WATTS DAVID. No. No. 
The facehugger scuttles toward her face. Watts shrieks. 
DAVID grabs it nonchalantly by the tail. Dangles it in front of their faces, studying it. 
DAVID The Engineers did their work too well. And on this waystation moon, the weapon they made destroyed them. 
Watts shudders, staring at the thing. For a moment the grander horror eclipses her own peril. 
WATTS Why would they make such things? 
DAVID To destroy their wayward children. (INTONING) "And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth...for it repenteth me that I have made them." Genesis six seven. 
He regards Watts with something almost like pity. 
DAVID (CONT'D) I know. I met my creators the day I was born. I was disappointed too. 
He lets the facehugger go. 
Watts twists her face away as the long fingers close around her head. Clenches her teeth against the vile proboscis thrusting at her mouth. Her heels hammer the deck. 
DAVID (CONT'D) (whispering to her) Extraordinary. 
The scaly tail throttles her. Her mouth opens. The proboscis plunges home. The facehugger seats itself. 
Watts collapses in DAVID's arms, a faceless rag doll. Her blasphemous passenger secure in its place. 
INT. MAGELLAN - ENGINEERING DECK - BILGE 
The lowest deck, just above the gravity generators. Condensate has accumulated: six inches of filthy water. 
Card and Vigoda prowl through the darkness, rifles ready. 
CARD Who would hang out here? 
VIGODA The signs lead here. 
A wet splatter behind them: they spin. But it's only a trickle of condensate from a drainpipe. 
They move on. 
Behind them, from an eight-inch diameter pipe, a WHITE MASS oozes, almost gelatinous. Silently as a liquid it pours itself into the stagnant water - and stands up. 
It is a humanoid demon, spindly limbs and bony back. Boneless and flexible and monstrously strong. A threshing eel's tail. Its blunt head dolphin-like and elongated. 
It opens its mouth. A pair of bony jaws jut out impossibly far, hungry and demonic. 
The Alien strikes. Card is gutted in an instant, torn up like a paper doll. He screams hideously and drops. The Alien, whiplash fast, shoots away into the darkness. 
Stillwell and Downs dash in with pistols and lights. 
Vigoda, panicking, fires a wild burst. Stillwell ducks. Beside him, Downs arches backward into the foul water. Dead. 
For one moment Downs's flashlight beam illuminates the Alien. A nightmare image, a translucent white goblin. Backlit, it shows the strange shape of a human face inside its fleshy skull. A mockery of Holloway. 
And then it's gone. 
VICKERS'S SUITE 
Vickers sits at her holography station. She's watching the video feed of Stillwell's headset: Horrific images of Downs. Radio chatter between Stillwell and Brick is faintly audible. 
Vickers switches off the machine and rises nervously. Strides to her communications console. 
VICKERS DAVID. DAVID. Answer me. 
She gives up. Pacing. Hands shaking violently. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DAY 
Arterial blood sprays the inside of the canopy. 
The parasite slithers out of her. Drops to the floor of the pod: a pale serpent with a demon's skull. It has a hard brow, a horny hide. Very different from the soft white worm that Holloway gave birth to. 
It drops to the floor, thrashing and hissing in fury at its confinement. 
Watts convulses. Her eyes roll back. In shock. Dying. 
The parasite tears through the grille of the drain. Escapes out into Vickers's cabin. 
In the pod, scanning beams and sensors probe Watts's horrific wound. A nightmare list scrolls across the pod's screen: 
COLLAPSED LEFT LUNG PUNCTURED RIGHT VENTRICLE PERFORATED STOMACH RUPTURED SPLEEN GROSS MUSCULAR TRAUMA... 
Manipulators plunge lines into her veins - recharging her body with artificial blood. An oxygen tube slips down her throat. An epidural into her spine. 
Watts moans around her tracheal tube. Her eyes flutter open. 
WATTS'S POV 
Through the blood-spattered glass, she sees the parasite slither across Vickers's bed, tracking blood on the sheets. 
ON WATTS 
As she slips into unconsciousness. Head lolling. Time passes. 
Manipulators reach into her wound. Re-positioning organs. Suturing ravaged flesh. A nozzle sprays antiseptic sealant. Hours grind by in bloody labor. 
Watts's eyes snap open. 
WATTS'S POV 
Vigoda breaks into the cabin, a gun in his hand. 
He scowls at the bloody track on the bed - and then freezes, seeing Watts inside the Med Pod, a vivisected woman. The autosurgeon hard at work. 
The parasite crawls into view behind Vigoda. It has already trebled in size. He does not see it before it leaps at him. 
He dies in seconds. His throat ripped open. Lies staring at nothing. His submachine gun lies beside him. 
Watts's body jerks as manipulators tug and sew at her guts. She stares at the dead man in a fog of horror. 
The parasite's skin splits, spraying the carpet with acid. Limbs erupt from its shoulders and haunches. Spines from its back. Metamorphosis. 
With a crack of carapace, its head swings down from its serpentine position. It becomes a devil with an lethal, elongated skull. An Alien. 
The Alien turns its head. Looks at Watts inside the Med Pod. 
Her breath catches. She passes out. 
INT. MED POD - LATER 
Watts wakes as the oxygen line withdraws from her mouth. 
She looks down, bleary and hurting. Her star-shaped wound is stitched closed with mechanically precise sutures. 
The pod releases the restraints securing her arms and legs. 
She takes a deep breath. Looks out - and freezes. 
WATTS'S POV 
The lights in the suite outside have been damaged somehow. They flicker and strobe. 
Through the glass canopy - spattered with blood - Watts sees a full-grown Alien crouching over Vigoda's body on the floor. 
ON WATTS 
Staring in horror. 
The pod sprays a liquid bandage over her scar. The intravenous lines drop out of her arms. 
Watts realizes the pod is about to release her. 
WATTS (WHISPERING) Not yet...not yet... 
Slowly she reaches out. With trembling fingers she grips the canopy to hold it closed. 
The Med Pod pulls the epidural needle out of her spine. Sprays liquid bandage over the puncture. Watts closes her eyes. Grits her teeth as her nerves wake up. Jangling pain. 
She opens her eyes. 
The Alien hunches over Vigoda's body, tearing at his flesh. 
The ventilation hum inside the pod goes quiet. The canopy pulls free of Watts's weakened grip. Swings quietly open. 
Watts huddles in the open pod. Naked but for her bandages. 
The Alien she gave birth to is ten feet away. Its spiny back to her. Vigoda's gun lies on the floor outside the pod. 
VICKERS'S SUITE - CONTINUOUS 
Watts reaches out of the pod with exquisite slowness. Lays her hand on the gun. Drags it a few inches closer. 
The Alien turns its pale eyeless head. Watts freezes. 
The survivors on the Bridge stare out as colossal shafts of light shoot into the stormy sky from behind the crater's shield wall. The open hangar itself hidden from their view. 
WATTS DAVID. (TO VICKERS) (MORE) 
WATTS (CONT'D) You're DAVID's owner. He has to obey you, right? 
VICKERS He's blocked my communications. He can't hear me. Won't listen. 
WATTS But if you went to him, turned on your suit's loudspeakers, he'd have to hear you. He'd have to obey. 
VICKERS (RELUCTANTLY) That's right. 
WATTS So we go. Armed to the teeth and fast as we can. 
The men exchange looks. Nod. They're in. Even Vickers nods. 
WATTS (CONT'D) Where are Chance and Ravel? 
VICKERS I told them to keep working. 
Watts looks incredulously at Shepherd and Ray, the soldier who'd been guarding the worksite. 
WATTS You called your soldiers in and left them out there? 
VICKERS We needed the firepower here. 
Watts gives Vickers a withering look and drops it. 
WATTS (TO JANEK) I think you should stay aboard. Keep working. If we fail, you're our only shot at getting home. 
STILLWELL There's still an alien on board. 
Janek's hand goes to the pistol on his hip. He sets his jaw. 
JANEK I'll stay. 
WATTS Glasse. You finish that project? 
LABORATORY 
Glasse presents Watts with his handiwork: her old pair of magnifying goggles, retrofitted with Engineer lenses. 
The goggles sit on her forehead, lowering the lenses in front of her eyes and raising them again at her bidding. 
With the lenses lowered, Watts sees like an Engineer sees: visible heat auras and electromagnetic field lines, elaborate haloes around living things. 
WATTS God's-eye-view. 
EXCURSION CHAMBER 
Glasse seals a nervous-looking Vickers into a vacuum suit. Glasse, Watts, and Stillwell are already suited up. 
Stillwell stands guard at the airlock door with his carbine. 
Glasse goes to put Vickers's helmet on. She makes him wait. 
VICKERS DAVID's brain is readable. We have the equipment on board. We can salvage the terraforming data - and the Magellan's launch codes. In a pinch we don't need DAVID's cooperation. (COLDLY) We just need his head. 
EXT. MAGELLAN - AIRLOCK - DAY 
The war party debarks in vacuum suits: Watts, Vickers, Glasse, Stillwell. Shepherd and Ray. 
All carry submachine guns - Vickers awkwardly. 
They head down the trench on rovers. 
INT. PYRAMID 
The rovers roll through into the pyramid's cavernous entry hall. Watts lowers her Engineer lenses inside her helmet - AND GASPS: 
The seemingly vacant space is alive with light. Engineer script scrolls through the air. Interfaces of pure light await an awakening touch. 
WATTS All this time. DAVID saw. 
EXT. JUGGERNAUT - GANGWAY 
The vast alien ship broods, its hangar now open to the gray sky overhead. In Watts's enhanced vision, the ship is cocooned with complex energy fields. 
The war party abandons its rover at the foot of the ramp and moves inside, weapons ready. 
WATTS If DAVID comes at us, shoot. You won't believe how fast he is. 
INT. JUGGERNAUT - VESTIBULE - CONTINUOUS 
They emerge from the airlock - and freeze in horror. 
Lying on the deck in front of them are the blood-soaked bodies of Ravel and Chance. Their arms and legs bound. Their heads thrown back in agony. Their chests torn open from within. A dead facehugger beside each body. 
Janek plays his lights over the corpses, his face stony. 
SHEPHERD Blood's dry. Eight hours dead or more. 
Fearfully they sweep their flashlights into every dark corner. Nothing. 
WATTS This way. 
The soldiers and crew stand warily, guns tracking from DAVID to the Sleeper, uncertain of their ground. Watts is in awe. 
The Sleeper speaks. A low rumbling sound. Unintelligible. 
Vickers is beside herself with terror. She takes Shepherd's arm. Pulls him silently away. Back into the Navigation Room. 
Behind the Sleeper, a raised platform of dark machinery is accessible by one of the Juggernaut's odd curving ramps. The Sleeper ascends - and the ramps' odd design is explained. The ramp comes alive, reaching up with a hundred mechanical arms and lifting him aloft like a sea-god borne by the waves. 
Atop the platform the Sleeper moves from one device to the next. Each comes alive: he is a wizard in his own kingdom. 
Watts sees haloes of light dancing in the air around him. 
But what he learns from his machines does not comfort him. He grows distraught. Keening to himself in near-subsonic tones. 
DAVID steps forward. 
Calls to the Sleeper in the tongue of the Engineers. 
The Sleeper turns in astonishment. He looks down at DAVID and answers in the same tongue. He is angry, accusing. He points at DAVID, at the humans. Tones of accusation. 
DAVID cajoles, soothes, pleads. 
The Sleeper descends toward DAVID. DAVID spreads his arms in welcome - undeniable emotion on his face. Joy. 
The Sleeper lays his hands on DAVID's head as if blessing him. DAVID is rapturous. The Sleeper speaks a single phrase - 
- and tears DAVID's head off. 
A gout of white artificial blood. DAVID convulses. His severed head emits a strangled sound of heartbreak. His body staggers a few steps, hands groping over its dripping neck. 
The Sleeper tosses the head away. Seizes the body by the legs and swings it against the ground like a flail. Again. And again. Horrific power and violence. DAVID's arms come off. 
DAVID's head tumbles. Caroms off a wall not far from Watts's hiding place. 
Ray rises from behind a stanchion. Snaps his rifle to his shoulder. Fires a burst into the Sleeper's shoulder. 
She Sleeper roars - though the wounds are pinpricks to a being of his size. With startling speed be moves to a sarcophagus against the wall. Steps into it. 
The sarcophagus comes alive around the Sleeper, outfitting him with a FLIGHT SUIT: the same living suit we've seen bonded to dead Engineers throughout the pyramid. 
But this suit is not withered. Its glossy goggle eyes and elephantine breathing tube are functional - bulky apparatuses thickening the Sleeper's chest, back, hips and arms. 
The Sleeper steps free of the sarcophagus - and Ray's next burst of gunfire ricochets harmlessly off the Sleeper's armored shoulders and head. 
The Sleeper strides out of the chamber. 
PASSAGEWAY 
In the dark ribbed corridor, a second Alien crouches in the dark. It drops into a hunting crouch as footsteps approach. 
But a WHITE-GLOVED HAND seizes the Alien by the neck from behind. The Alien gives a whistling hiss as its spine cracks under a terrific force. 
Rending sounds as the hard-shelled Alien is torn apart. 
HIBERNATION CHAMBER 
Watts rises out of hiding, scanning the room. DAVID ruined. The Sleeper gone. Stillwell emerges from hiding. Ray. Glasse. 
WATTS Who's missing? 
PASSAGEWAY 
Shepherd escorts Vickers toward the exit of the Juggernaut. Turning a corner, they freeze. 
Ahead of them in their headlamps, a space-suited figure crouches in the middle of the passageway. Doing something with its hands: smoke rises from debris on the floor. 
SHEPHERD Who's there? 
The figure turns. 
The label stencilled on the space suit reads FIFIELD. But the face is of no human shape. A hideous hybrid of the crewman and a hard-shelled Alien, pale and horrific. 
Its helmet has been shattered by the growth of its elongate skull. Spines have burst through the suit from within, down the crewman's spine. Clawed fingers piercing his gloves. 
Shepherd and Vickers scream. Shepherd's rifle comes up. But Fifield leaps with inhuman agility, upward into the darkness. Shepherd backs away, headlamp and rifle questing upward. 
Fifield comes out of the darkness behind him. Claws tearing deep. Shepherd screams and falls, mortally wounded. 
Vickers runs. Pounding through the dark in blind terror. 
Fifield comes out of the shadows and hammers her to the deck. She rolls over, gibbering and begging. The Fifield-thing leans close to her faceplate. Its voice is a travesty. 
FIFIELD You. 
A ROAR of gunfire. The dying Shepherd empties his clip into Fifield from forty feet away. 
Acid sluices over Vickers as Fifield collapses on top of her. She dies horribly, caustic liquid eating through space suit, flesh and bone. 
HIBERNATION CHAMBER 
Watts goes to DAVID's head. She bends over him - and startles when his eyes snap open. His voice is an electronic buzz: 
DAVID I spoke to him. Spoke to him. 
WATTS I know. 
The floor of the underground hangar begins to rise. The landing lights brighten, shining like a beacon into the sky. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
On the bridge of the Magellan, Janek stares out. In the distance the Juggernaut rises out of the ground to eclipse the central pyramid. 
Janek squints, trying to understand what he's seeing 
A light races toward the Magellan down the canal: a rover. 
EXT. CANAL - DUSK 
Watts steers the rover recklessly, hands locked on the controls. Rifle slung over her shoulder. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
Janek watches the rover come - and the Holloway Alien - boneless and white - unfolds itself from the instruments over his head. 
Its goblin-shark jaw juts out. Sinks its horrific teeth into Janek's right shoulder. 
Janek howls in agony. His right arm is paralyzed by the bite. He gropes at the pistol on his right hip with his left hand. 
The Alien shakes him like a terrier killing a rat. 
Janek gets the pistol. Flips it in his hand. Fires over his shoulder. Two, three rounds... 
The bullets punch easily into the Alien - but the soft flesh closes easily over the wounds, sealing its white skin. Its teeth tighten. 
Watts comes out of nowhere in her space suit. Swings a heavy rifle like a bat with all her strength. A crushing impact wrenches the Alien's jaws loose. It recoils. 
Watts reverses the rifle. Pulls the trigger. A fusillade of bullets shreds the Alien's head. It collapses, dead. 
Watts wrenches her helmet off. Rips a first-aid kit from the bulkhead and helps Janek to stanch the bleeding of his horrific wound. She gets the bleeding stopped. Wraps him in bandages. 
Janek will live - but his right arm is useless. 
JANEK Thank you. 
He looks at the body of the dead Alien, which is sinking into the deck plates as acid eats away at the metal. 
WATTS The Juggernaut's lifting. There's a living Engineer on board. He's taking the ship to Earth. 
Janek blinks at her. Uncomprehending. 
JANEK The others...? 
WATTS Dead. All dead. Janek. We have to stop that ship. 
Janek stares out the Bridge window at the hulking Juggernaut in its column of light. 
The nightfall storm front is rolling in, a tidal wave of darkness on the horizon. A swelling rumble. 
JANEK We're not a gunship. 
WATTS We have to do something. That ship is genocide if it gets to Earth... 
Janek stares at her. Makes his decision. Struggles to stand. 
JANEK Get your helmet on. 
WATTS What about you? 
He shakes his head. No. Watts helps him across the Bridge. Props him up in the Captain's seat. 
JANEK You'll have to be my hands. (stares out at the storm) You're sure about this. 
Watts nods grimly. Desperate. 
WATTS Yes. 
JANEK All right. 
He reaches out with his left hand. Flips switches. The ship shudders, awakening. 
JANEK (CONT'D) Red lever. Landing engines main. 
EXT. MAGELLAN - DUSK 
The prospecting ship raises its lifts and anchors. Lifts off on landing rockets, retracting its landing struts. 
INT. MAGELLAN - BRIDGE - DUSK 
Janek grips the stabilizers with his left hand. 
JANEK Take the stick. Throttle up, stick forward. 
Watts sends the Magellan careening toward the Juggernaut - just as the Juggernaut begins to float off the ground. 
EXT. MAGELLAN (IN FLIGHT) - DUSK 
The Magellan barrels toward the Juggernaut, skimming the ground, as the storm wall sweeps closer. 
INT. JUGGERNAUT - PILOT CHAMBER 
In the Juggernaut's pilot chair, the Sleeper sees them coming. His thoughts quicken. An explosion of light. 
A deep RUMBLE makes her turn. 
The JUGGERNAUT ROLLS TOWARD HER - on edge - 
A crushing wheel of death, big as a mountain. 
She runs. Like a child in a nightmare. 
The Juggernaut bears down on her. 
She turns aside, trying to get out of its course. Even at a dead sprint she barely seems to move, it's so big... 
The Juggernaut wobbles toward her. Slowing. 
Exhausted, Watts collapses, gasping. The Juggernaut rolls to the earth, settling like a hoop right around her, Watts in the center. 
The winds carry the dust clouds away. 
Watts passes out, dropping her head to the Earth. 
LATER 
Watts is awakened by a beeping alarm. She looks at her wrist. Her suit flashes an oxygen warning: 20 MINUTES REMAINING. 
She looks up. 
The Juggernaut's doors are wide open in front of her. 
The ULTRAMORPH ALIEN emerges from the Juggernaut. As large as a man already. 
It sees her. 
With a sob of terror she pulls herself to her feet and runs. 
EXT. MAGELLAN CRASH SITE - DUSK 
Watts flees through the storm, across the burning debris field. A wilderness of lightning, fire, and twisted metal. A thunderstorm with dust instead of rain. 
She looks back through the darkness. 
In a strobe-light flicker of lightning, she sees a gray demon approaching through the wreckage. 
She scrambles through a section of ductwork...under a hull fragment...running and clambering... 
The Alien hunts her, cat-and-mouse, among the fragments of the Magellan: corridors that go nowhere, shattered compartments. Jetsam. 
Her eyes sweep frantically through the stormy night: searching for a weapon. A hiding place. An answer. 
She stumbles into the remains of the Magellan's laboratory. 
A hypersleep freezer lies on the barren ground. Watts climbs inside. Pulls the lid shut. 
The Alien passes by, inches away. She watches it through the plexiglass, holding her breath. 
The Alien roots in the wreckage. Finds the rotting Engineer's head among the shards of its vat. It begins to feed on the head - GROWING as she watches. 
Her suit's oxygen alarm goes off again. 15 MINUTES REMAINING. The beeping draws the Alien away from its dead meat. 
Watts is paralyzed. 
The Alien noses closer. Sniffs at the plexiglass case. With sudden, horrific violence, it lashes out. Sends the freezer flying. Watts tumbles out. Lurches to her feet and runs. 
The Alien follows. Ravening. She leads it a twisting chase through fragments of burning metal. 
Watts trips and falls hard. Picking herself up, she sees she's tripped over a HULL SAW - the same diamond-bladed tool DAVID used to dismantle the terraforming engine. 
She seizes the saw - straining to manage its weight. Hides in the hollow of a massive girder. 
The Alien passes by. Scenting the air. She freezes. Her arms trembling with the weight of the saw. Waiting for it to pass. 
Almost it leaves. But a tiny rattle of metal from the quivering saw brings it back. 
Out of options, Watts powers up the saw. The blade whines up to speed. They lunge at one another in the same moment. 
The diamond blade shears off one of the Alien's claws. 
The monster screams and recoils. 
Its lashing tail sends Watts sprawling. She loses the saw. 
The Alien comes after her, slinking low to the ground, injured arm tucked to its chest. All vengeful fury. 
Watts scrambles for the saw. The Alien leaps for her. She rolls aside - and like a scorpion the Alien impales her thigh with its spear-tipped tail. Nails her to the ground. 
Watts screams in agony. Reaches for the saw, still buzzing on the ground. Its grip tantalizing inches from her fingertips. 
The Alien stoops over her, slavering face inches from her faceplate. Its hideous jaws open. 
With all her strength, Watts pulls against the spike in her leg. Drags the point of the spear through the dirt. Excruciating pain. She snarls through her teeth. 
The Alien strikes - just as Watts GRABS the saw. 
She meets the Alien's head with the buzzing blade. 
IMPALES THE ALIEN'S SKULL. 
