DAGGETT (looking at floor) There's glass in the carpet. 
BURROWS That usually happens when you break a window. 
DAGGETT It's on the inside. 
Amongst the glass fragments at Thomas' feet is a pair of dark sunglasses. He picks them up, taps them in his palm, and looks out the window down to the man with no eyes, pinched between brick and chrome. 
DAGGETT Where's Chimney Rock? 
BURROWS Arizona desert, I think. Which is exactly where I'm going to be in two years, three months. 
DAGGETT And give up all this? 
BURROWS You're breaking my heart. 
DISSOLVE SLOWLY TO: 
The sun sinking beneath the horizon of a vast and undulating expanse of desert. 
Travel through the landscape as the sky purples and darkens and silhouettes tall, finger-like spires of volcanic rock. Hear the coyotes, the wind making its constant, probing search. Before the night swallows it all whole, 
Come upon The Town. 
It used to be something. But that's long gone. Now, wrapped in the sucking blackness of a wilderness night, it's a shell of a place. 
Lights still burn in some of the windows but fool no one. The ghosts are the majority here. Biding their time. Waiting for The Town to surrender and slip beneath the waves of the desert. 
The wind slinks over the hills, creeps down past boarded-up storefronts, skeletal ocitillo, and the rusting hulks of abandoned mining equipment. The corpse of a summer's kite twists slowly on a power line. 
ON THE EDGE OF TOWN 
From the inky oblivion of the road, comes a crunch of gravel. 
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF TOWN 
Stands a large, nineteenth century brick schoolhouse. An icon from a more prosperous past, its dark massiveness was meant for scores of ruddy-faced miner's kids. Now it seems to be imploding, eating itself with creeping decay. On this night it is silent and dark but for a small glow in one corner and the faint sound of children's voices in song. 
It is a hymn. An ancient, Latin one. The melancholy beauty of voices rising and falling in choir. 
INSIDE THE BUILDING 
Is a school auditorium. On the stage, dwarfed by it, are twenty five students from first grade to high school, singing together as a choir. A young woman, KATHERINE, directs their acapella voices as the small group of parents, lonely in the huge room, look on. 
OUTSIDE 
The voices drift on the night, down the road, and lap against the peeling facade of a storefront. A mortuary. 
INSIDE 
The rooms are dark but for one. There, bathed in the flickering light of a tall candle, lies the body of the old general we saw at the opening. 
THE FRONT DOOR 
Of the mortuary has a locked handle that jiggles from outside. A small panes of glass beside it is BROKEN by a hand. 
IN THE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM 
Young voices struggle with the complicated hymn and its pain of centuries. Faces white, Mexican, Navaho. Katherine guides them with soft hands. She smiles in pride. They smile back. Proud. Of her. Of themselves and the beauty coming from their mouths. 
One small, beautiful navaho girl, MARY, maybe eight, gets a special smile of special friendship from Katherine. 
THE MORTUARY'S 
Front door now stands ajar in the darkness. Small shards of glass glisten in the carpet. 
INSIDE 
Is the dead General. Even in the bleached ravages of age and death, his face still holds a shadow of vigor and pride. 
It takes a moment in the weak flicker of the candle to realize someone is there with him. Simon in his oversized surplus jacket. His arms are folded tightly across his middle, as if in deep cold. But his gaunt face is moist with sweat and his breath is shallow and uneven. He stares at the old man behind sunglasses and takes slow, cautious steps forward into the amber glow. 
Holding out two blood-stained fingers, Simon touches the General's forehead. A new strain crosses his perspiring face. Concentration. 
Placing his right palm on the General's chin and the left on his forehead, Simon CRACKS OPEN the dead man's mouth. 
IN THE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM 
The hymn is reaching its aching climax of medieval longing. 
IN THE MORTUARY 
Simon leans down to the open mouth, and in a voice soft and deeply weary, 
SIMON Qui ex Patre Flioque procedit... 
CORONER Sit. 
Thomas obeys as the coroner spreads out a stack of white sheets. 
CORONER Where would you like me to start? 
DAGGETT I think we can skip the cause of death. 
CORONER All right. To begin with, your man has no eyes. 
DAGGETT Weren't stuck in the radiator grill? 
CORONER No, he never had any eyes. We checked the sockets. There's no optic nerve, muscle pores, loose viscus, nothing. 
DAGGETT Huh. 
CORONER We also did a toxicology on his blood: High sodium, elevated selenium, no floating cholesterol platelets, trace ammonia. 
DAGGETT Something wrong with that? 
CORONER No, it's actually pretty common -- for an aborted fetus. 
DAGGETT (rubs eyes) I should have listened to Burrows... 
CORONER We also did a bone section. Wasn't that much trouble since most of them were sticking out of his chest anyway. 
DAGGETT And? 
CORONER When babies grow up their bones get larger by adding calcium layers over the interior haversham canals. Child growth isn't uniform though, comes in spurts that always leave growth rings in the bone. Everybody has them -- except your man. That would, to a hasty observer, seem to indicate he had never been a child. 
DAGGETT I assume you, a cautious and learned observer, of course have an explanation. 
CORONER Not even remotely. Want to hear the last one? 
DAGGETT Not even remotely. 
CORONER He's a hermaphrodite. (Thomas stares at him) -- Has both male and female sex organs. 
DAGGETT Think of the possibilities. 
CORONER Yeah, you can be impotent and frigid all at the same time -- they don't normally work. 
Thomas sighs and climbs to his feet. 
DAGGETT Well, I'd love to say thank you, but -- 
CORONER Oh, I also have a bonus prize for you. 
The coroner opens his desk and pulls out a small, ancient looking leather bound book. 
CORONER Found this sealed in his coat lining. 
Thomas turns it over in his hand. 
DAGGETT It's a bible. 
CORONER A pretty old one, I think. 
Thomas runs his finger across the gold-leaf cover. 
CORONER We checked it out inside. Thought there might be a name or fingerprint somewhere. All we found was a curled page marking the fourteenth chapter of St. John's Revelations. 
DAGGETT There is no fourteenth chapter to Revelations. 
CORONER Maybe this is the teacher's edition. 
Thomas opens the bible and there it is, in Latin, the fourteenth chapter. 
DAGGETT Can I keep this awhile? 
CORONER Sure. 
DAGGETT (beat) Can you sit on all this a few days, Willie? Not circulate the file? I need some time before all the questions start. 
CORONER Oooh, are we breaking the rules again? 
DAGGETT So what else is new? 
INT. POLICE OFFICE 
Thomas at his desk, working under a lone gooseneck lamp. He's translating the fourteenth chapter of St. John's Revelations from Latin onto a slip of paper. Finished, he sets the ancient bible down, turns off the gooseneck, and leans back in his chair, alone in the dark. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. DESERT - EARLY MORNING 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Katherine's lecturing her students. All twenty-five of them. There's high school age sons of white ranchers, Navaho girls on the edge of puberty, tiny Mexican children. All being taught together in one room. 
It's dinosaur day. Katherine has a large fossilized bone on her lap. 
KATHERINE This is "Camposaurus". Camposaurus was a herbavore, which meant he only ate plants. Camposaur stayed mostly to himself and never bothered anyone. 
The little girls smile. They like Camposaurus. Katherine holds up another bone fragment. 
KATHERINE This is a leg fragment that belongs to the killer of the plateau, Alosaurus. Alosaurus was a vicious carnivore, which meant he'd eat anything that moved, especially nice, juicy Camposaurs. 
The little boys grin. They like Alosaurus. 
KATHERINE Both these guys lived together right here on the White Rock plateau eighty million years ago, when this area used to be on the banks of a huge, shallow sea. Remember how we talked about how sedimentation fossilizes bones? That's also what made the hills out behind our town and put the copper in the ground. 
HIGH SCHOOL KID Lot of good that did us. 
Katherine lifts off the desk an ancient 1950s gieger counter and switches it on. It ticks softly when she points it at the dino bone. 
BOY It's radioactive! Like Godzilla! 
KATHERINE Just a tiny bit, Alex. Do you know why? Uranium, that's the rock they use in nuclear power plants -- 
BOY And bombs! 
KATHERINE And bombs Alex, yes, is all through these hills naturally. Millions of years ago the dinosaurs here ate plants and drank water which had uranium in it that became concentrated in their bones, which is exactly how, with Mr. Geiger counter here, we're going to find some. 
The class CHEERS. 
EXT. HILL - DAY 
With the brick schoolhouse tiny in the background, Katherine's class trudges its way up the barren, rocky hillside behind the town. The teenage rancher's kids try to make time with the Mexican girls One of the little boys has gotten into a shoving match with a little girl. 
KATHERINE (coming between them) -- Hey. Come on. What's the deal, Brian? 
The girl folds her arms defiantly. The boy is pissed, embarrassed. 
BRIAN She... 
KATHERINE Yes? 
BRIAN ...She, she called me a "Dick Head". 
KATHERINE Sandra? 
SANDRA Well, he is. 
KATHERINE All right, Brian. You get one free insult. Make it good. 
Brian concentrates. 
PAUL You... You're a... Cow Demon! 
KATHERINE (beat) Uh... Okay. Everybody satisfied? (looks at Brian) Cow Demon? 
UP ON THE HILL 
Katherine's given the geiger counter to the little Navaho girl, Mary. Focusing grimly on the rock in front of her, Mary guides the detector over the stones till suddenly it begins clicking softly. 
MARY I got one! I got one! 
The high school kids come up and help dig. 
KATHERINE Easy... Easy... Don't break it. 
Almost immediately, an eye socket appears in the dust. 
As the students carefully brush away the dust, Katherine looks back across the crumbly path. A coyote has crept up onto a near ledge. It just stands there. Watching her. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BIG CITY CHURCH 
It's mostly empty at this time of day and the young man sitting in the pew, staring at the altar, is alone. His name is GABRIEL and he wears jeans, a faded leather jacket, and dark sunglasses, even inside. His thin hair is slicked back and there's an almost feminine quality about him. 
He sits there a moment longer, staring, then gets up and leaves. 
EXT. DOWNTOWN ALLEY 
The alley from the beginning. Gabriel pulls his old, convertible rambler to a stop and walks into the flophouse. 
INT. FLOPHOUSE 
He comes upstairs to the landing, where the door to the room is covered with a strip of yellow tape: POLICE INVESTIGATION. DO NOT ENTER. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
An old fifties two-level, Polynesian lamps and glitter stucco, now faded and browinish with water stains. Gabriel, the young man with the sunglasses and leather jacket we last saw kicking down the door at the flophouse, walks up the apartment's stairs to the second level, knocks once, and opens the door. 
THE APARTMENT INSIDE 
Hasn't been very well looked after lately. Either has the occupant. Sitting slumped in a kitchen chair, staring at the floor, he peers through dully yellow eyes that barely seem to register his visitor. 
GABRIEL Gee Jerry, you look like shit. 
The eyes lift to Gabriel, revealing a pale, bloodless face eaten with dried sores. 
JERRY Leave me alone, Gabriel. 
GABRIEL Soon, pal. Soon. 
Gabriel drops into the chair across from Jerry and pushes aside with distaste the maggot-ridden plates of food piled on the table. He reaches his hand out to Jerry. 
GABRIEL Come here. 
JERRY Go away. 
GABRIEL (sing-song, like to a baby) Come here... 
Gabriel puts his hand under Jerry's chin and turns the face side to side, examining the cracked, decaying skin and filmy eyes. 
GABRIEL Hmmm. Still a little life left in you. Barely. 
JERRY Fuck you. 
Gabriel releases Jerry's chin and slouches down in the chair. 
GABRIEL There's something I want you to do for me. 
JERRY What a surprise. 
GABRIEL Don't be that way. 
JERRY I just want to... Why won't you let me... 
GABRIEL I will, I will. Promise. 
A dark, intestinal looking amber fluid begins to pool out of Jerry's pant leg. 
GABRIEL You need some new clothes, son. 
A tear wells in Jerry's decomposing face. 
GABRIEL Aw come on, don't start. You know how I hate that... 
JERRY I'm so tired. I'm so goddamn tired. 
GABRIEL Watch the profanity. -- Just one more favor. Honest. 
JERRY (deep sigh) What? 
GABRIEL I want you to get something for me. A few personal effects the cops ripped off from the lovely Allenwood Arms on Seventh Street. It'll be sitting in their property room down on San Julian. 
JERRY I'm supposed to just go in there? Like this? 
GABRIEL Give you a bath, put on some decent clothes, (beat) Maybe a very large brim hat, you'll be fine. Just go in between five and five-ten, it's a shift change and nobody'll notice you. 
JERRY How do you know? 
GABRIEL (cocks an eye) C'mon. (tosses yellow ID card onto table) This should be more or less up to date. 
JERRY Got a name this stuff is under? 
GABRIEL John Doe. 
JERRY Why doesn't that surprise me. 
Gabriel gets up, pats Jerry on the head, and walks to the door. 
GABRIEL I'll see you tonight. (flips him silver dollar) Here's some bus fare. 
CUT TO: 
The SLAM of a racquetball against the scarred white wall of an indoor court. It ricochets off the ceiling, hits the back glass partition, and is SLAMMED again. Four players, including Thomas, grunt and sweat across the hardwood floor. It's brutal. Shoulders and knees bang off one another. 
One of the players falls back, yells to Thomas. 
PLAYER Cover me! Cover me! 
She takes a couple of shy steps toward him. 
SIMON Closer... 
As she does -- 
CUT TO: 
Katherine, outside the building, rounding up some of the kids who decided to take an impromptu recess. Hustling the last one up the stairs, she pauses suddenly. She hears something. Faint coughing. 
Katherine walks back around the side of the building and sees Mary bent over, vomiting. Katherine rushes up to her. 
MARY I don't feel good... 
KATHERINE What's the matter, pumpkin? Did you eat something? (concerned beat) Did he give you something? 
Mary coughs up the last of her lunch. 
MARY Can I go home now? 
Katherine wipes off Mary's mouth with a hanky. 
KATHERINE Sure, hon. Let's go. 
EXT. TOWN - DAY 
Katherine drives Mary home, a dusty, tired mobile home slumped among the saguaro and tumbleweed on the edge of town. 
INT. MOBILE HOME 
Mary and Katherine pull open the door and enter. Mary's elderly grandmother is sitting watching "All My Children". She smiles at Katherine and looks at Mary with concern as the little girl rubs her stomach and explains something in Navaho. 
IN THE BEDROOM 
Katherine helps tuck Mary in bed as her grandmother brings a glass of water. 
KATHERINE I'll have the school send over a doctor. 
The grandmother sits beside Mary, whispers gently in Navaho, and softly stokes her brow. 
IN THE LIVING ROOM 
KATHERINE (on the phone) ...He's was just laying up there. I thought, with the kids and everything... 
VOICE Most of my boys are up the highway on a tanker spill at the moment. They may be a while. These people are rarely any problem. I'll have a deputy come by tonight or tomorrow and shoo him out. 
KATHERINE He looked hurt. 
VOICE They all do, ma'am. Inside or out, they're all damaged goods. 
IN THE BEDROOM 
Alone and tucked into bed, Mary stares off at something very, very far away. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. THOMAS'S APARTMENT 
The sun orange and fading outside his window, Thomas drifts off into a nap on his couch. The phone rings. 
DAGGETT Yeah. 
VOICE It's your friendly coroner. 
DAGGETT Why is my friendly coroner, after a long day at work, calling me at home? 
VOICE I have something you'll want to see. 
DAGGETT I doubt it. 
VOICE No, you'll definitely want to see this. 
INT. MORGUE 
On the floor is the smoldering, blackened outline of a body. A thick, slimy goo gurgles and pops. The whole room is afoul with acrid smoke. 
CORONER They also took the autopsy file. 
DAGGETT "They"? 
CORONER He, she, it. They took it. They also lifted all the physical evidence from the San Julian impound. 
DAGGETT Where was everyone? 
CORONER The cop at the desk is in the hospital as we speak with a broken collarbone. Everyone else was down the hall watching the basketball playoffs. 
GABRIEL Some things are human work, son. Live or dead, human work. Besides, I like you. 
JERRY Lucky moi. 
Gabriel suddenly stands on the brakes, SCREECHING the rambler to a dusty stop. He kills the engine and everything is instantly whispering night and coyote howls. Gabriel climbs out and walks to the edge of a cliff. Far below, nestled among the finger-like spires of volcanic cones, lies The Town. Twinkling lights in a cold, dark embrace. 
Gabriel pushes his sunglasses up his nose and smiles. 
GABRIEL I can always smell a graveyard. 
Two coyotes begin fighting and snarling with each other in the dust nearby. 
EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT 
On a low hill at the edge of town. Cracked, sinking headstones. The rambler's parked next to a new one, Slim Pickens on the AM, as Jerry digs up the fresh grave marked General Arnold Hawthorne. Gabriel sits perched on the headstone over the grave like a winged creature. 
JERRY I hope you're enjoying this. 
GABRIEL I always enjoy watching you work, Jerry. 
JERRY How did I ever get you in my life? 
GABRIEL Come on, you didn't really want to kill yourself. 
JERRY But I did it, didn't I? I did kill myself. 
GABRIEL Well, yes. Technically. 
JERRY And you're just keeping me alive. 
GABRIEL Letting you die slower. 
JERRY I'm so in your debt. 
GABRIEL Thank you, Jerry. I'm touched. Really. 
Jerry's shovel CLANKS onto something hard. He scrapes away the dirt, revealing a coffin lid. With a socket wrench Jerry removes the fastening bolts, then with the edge of his shovel, pries open the lid. 
It's the ancient, wasted general we saw at the beginning. His medals flash in the moonlight. 
JERRY Not much to look at. 
GABRIEL Ah, but it's not what's on the outside that matters -- 
Gabriel leaps off his perch down into the grave. 
GABRIEL -- It's what's on the inside. 
Gabriel reaches down, places one hand on the General's forehead, one on his chin, and BREAKS the mouth open. He gazes down into it. Then suddenly stiffens and straightens up. 
GABRIEL (upset) It's not here. 
Gabriel frantically look in the ears. Up the nose. 
GABRIEL It's not here! 
JERRY Oooh, bad news for the war effort. 
GABRIEL (spins wildly on him) Shut up!! 
Gabriel BANGS the coffin lid in frustration. Tries to think. 
GABRIEL Now, if you were a soul, where would you hide? 
JERRY The hell away from you. 
INT. THOMAS'S APARTMENT 
The numbers on the clock radio roll over five AM and the news comes on. Thomas stirs in bed, rubs his eyes, and looks out at a sky untouched by any sign of dawn. 
CUT TO: 
In coat and tie, Thomas sits in his spartan kitchen stirring a coffee when the phone rings. 
FEMALE VOICE Hey little brother. 
DAGGETT (smiles) Hey. How's the world? 
VOICE The world's the usual. Except for a guppy. the world's minus one guppy this morning. 
DAGGETT And Jamie and Mac? 
VOICE They keep asking for Uncle Tommy. The only man that can make stuffed bears talk. 
DAGGETT My one true calling. What's up? 
GABRIEL Please, Simon. Get serious. 
Gabriel walks over to him. Puts his face close. 
GABRIEL Now. Where's the soul? (beat) You know. So high. Used to reside in the recently departed General Hawthorne. 
Simon doesn't answer. Gabriel shrugs. 
GABRIEL Have it your way, big guy. 
SIMON I do have one question. 
GABRIEL Shoot. 
SIMON Do you even remember what this war's about? 
Gabriel pauses, almost thoughtfully. Then he smiles. 
GABRIEL That's hardly the point, is it? 
SIMON I guess I never did get the point. 
GABRIEL Happens. 
SIMON How do you do it, Gabriel? How do you go on and on in this place? 
GABRIEL I like it here, Simon. I always have. 
SIMON I'm so tired... 
Gabriel grasps Simon's hand. 
GABRIEL Then join us, Simon. Reject the Nicene Council. We were here first. 
SIMON I can't do it, Gabriel. I don't even know why anymore, but I can't. 
GABRIEL You know the routine. 
SIMON (swallows hard) Yes. 
Gabriel's hand is suddenly on Simon's face, fingers spread, claw-like. They press into the flesh. Hard. And harder. Until Simon starts to bleed. 
Then to burn. 
INT. KATHERINE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Katherine startles abruptly in her bed at the faraway sound of Simon's screams. Screams carried either on the wind or her dreams. 
INT. MARY'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Asleep, sweaty, shivering, Mary suddenly opens her eyes. 
INT. THE SCHOOL BUILDING - NIGHT 
Gabriel releases his grip on Simon, letting him fall back against the wall, afire. His clothes twist and blacken. His skin creeps and pops. His sunglasses melt and fall away; revealing two hollow pits beneath. Gabriel lifts Simon's entire body up off the floor by just the disintegrating face, and stares into the hollow pits. 
GABRIEL Not yet. 
And the fires go out. Gabriel drops the crackling, acrid body onto the floor. Impossibly, through the sizzling mucus and molten hair, it breathes. It gasps in pain. It won't die. 
GABRIEL I can do this for five months, Simon... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE TOWN 
The skies above lighten and smear blue and red. 
KATHERINE 
Finishes dressing for school, picks up her teaching bag, and crunches out across the gravel to her pick-up. 
INT. THE SCHOOL BUILDING 
Gabriel's lizard boots pace back and forth past Simon's writhing, burning body. Gabriel's more jittery now. Losing his patience. He bends down and pulls Simon's face up to his. 
GABRIEL This is getting boring, Simon. 
JERRY Amen. 
GABRIEL Where is it? Where did you put it? 
The seared skin around Simon's mouth comes off in Gabriel's hand. But Simon is still, even now, silent. 
GABRIEL Where is it! 
Those sunglasses. Impenetrably dark. Like at the skid row flophouse. 
GABRIEL You're not from here. 
DAGGETT Either are you. 
GABRIEL I'm looking for something. 
DAGGETT Have you found it? 
GABRIEL I will. Have you found what you're looking for? 
DAGGETT I will. 
GABRIEL (appraising him) I don't doubt it. (stands) You'll let me know? When you find it? 
DAGGETT Where are you staying? 
GABRIEL I'm around. 
And he walks out, leaving Thomas alone in a place gone suddenly cold. 
INT. THOMAS'S HOTEL 
There's a note waiting for him at the front desk: "Her name is Mary Tsosie. You can talk to her at noon tomorrow. I'll be at the VFW hall tonight -- Katherine." 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. VFW HALL - NIGHT 
Thomas sticks his head in through the door. 
MICROPHONE VOICE ...B-26... B-26... 
It's an Indian bingo game. Thomas' eyes drift down the table packed with elderly faces and find Katherine and John the Navaho bus driver. Katherine waves him over. Both her and John are totally obsessed with the game, keeping track of several cards. 
DAGGETT I got your note. 
KATHERINE Have a seat. You need a card. Here, play one of mine. 
DAGGETT No, it's okay. Really -- 
JOHN You must learn to shed your high- strung ways, pale face. You must learn the spirit joy in patience, peace, and making fifty or sixty bucks. 
MICROPHONE VOICE ...G-19... G-19... 
KATHERINE John, this is Mr. Dagget. Says he's with the police, though judging by his coat and basic command of the english language, I don't think it's from anywhere around here. 
DAGGETT (shakes John's hand) Tom. From Los Angeles. 
JOHN That near Oxnard? 
DAGGETT Sort of. 
KATHERINE Long way from home, Tom-from-Los- Angeles. 
MICROPHONE VOICE D-9... D-9... 
Thomas lazily glances at his card, his eyes opening suddenly wide. 
DAGGETT -- Hey, wait. I won. I won! 
KATHERINE -- What? No way -- 
JOHN Recount! Recount! 
CUT TO: 
INT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT 
A Navaho social in full swing -- square dancing. The Indian band on stage plays deeply traditional, inspiring, -- Hank Williams. John easily whirls Katherine around; a steely-eyed, master square dancer. Thomas leans against the wall tugging on a beer. When John releases her for another partner she points at Thomas. 
KATHERINE Your turn. 
DAGGETT Oh, no thanks. 
KATHERINE C'mon, don't be a drip. 
She leads him out onto the floor. 
DAGGETT I'm not very good at this... 
KATHERINE (as they dance) No, you're not, are you? 
She smiles. Gets a smile out of him. 
DAGGETT Thanks for the lift. Tomorrow at noon? At the little girl's house? 
KATHERINE First trailer on the highway past town. 
Thomas climbs out. 
KATHERINE I must say, Mr. Dagget, that you don't seem very like a police officer to me. 
DAGGETT That's what my bosses keep saying. 
KATHERINE I meant it as a compliment. 
DAGGETT So taken. Goodnight, Miss Henley. 
KATHERINE Goodnight, Tom-from-Los-Angeles. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Thomas lying in his hotel bed, flinching through a dream- filled sleep. 
There's glimpses of shattered images: War. Death. And a small, dark-haired girl. Thomas's eyes open and fix on the ceiling. 
Out his window, perched on the railing of his balcony, is something dark and winged. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The honey warmth of dawn heats the bluish, quiet streets of The Town. Across shale hills and abandoned 19th century miner's shacks, there echoes the faint, clear notes of a trumpet. The bluesy notes drift over narrow dead-end streets, junked cars, and the abandoned copper mine out past the end of town. 
INT. MINE 
Deep in the tunneled rock, past the rusting conveyor belts, Gabriel sits in a small cave blowing Miles Davis on his trumpet. There's just the blanket he sits on and a single candle. Jerry comes around the corner. 
GABRIEL Get any sleep? (Jerry only stares) -- Just kidding. 
EXT. THE SCHOOLHOUSE - MORNING 
As Katherine climbs out of her pick-up she sees several of her students standing in a circle. Crouched in the center, talking to them, is a man. Gabriel. Jerry stands nearby. 
Gabriel is showing a boy his trumpet. Demonstrating where to put his fingers. 
GABRIEL ...There, and there. Now pucker your lips... aim it that way, and just blow a little bit, this is a special trumpet. 
The boy puffs lightly. The trumpet emits a piercing, clear note that SHATTERS a window high up in the abandoned part of the building. The youngsters whoop and applaud. 
GABRIEL Very good, Timmy. Very good. Here, have a Junior Mint on me. Open up. 
As Timmy opens his mouth we clearly see Gabriel looking down into it. Looking for something... 
GABRIEL Who's next? 
Katherine approaches the scene warily. The children all beg for their turn. Gabriel selects Sandra, one of Mary's second grade friends, and puts her on his knee. 
GABRIEL And who are you? 
SANDRA Sandra. 
She can barely get her fingers around the trumpet. 
GABRIEL And did you see the man upstairs, Sandra? 
SANDRA A little. 
GABRIEL Did you talk to him? 
SANDRA No. 
GABRIEL And who did, Sandra. Who talked to the man? 
SANDRA Mary. 
GABRIEL And where is Mary, Sandra? 
SANDRA She isn't here. She's sick. 
GABRIEL You've got very pretty teeth, Sandra. Here, let me see... 
He gently pushes down her chin with his thumb, opens her mouth, and gazes in. 
Katherine enters the circle. 
KATHERINE What the hell do you think you're doing? 
Gabriel looks up, unperturbed, and smiles. 
GABRIEL Just talking to the kids, Ma'am. 
KATHERINE What, pumpkin? 
MARY Then it wouldn't be a secret. 
DAGGETT You're a good friend not to tell, Mary. But I'm a friend of Simon's too. So if you ever want to tell, you can to me. Okay? 
MARY It's a secret... 
Mary lowers her head and shuts her eyes. 
MARY ...But sometimes it hurts. 
Thomas and Katherine exchange looks. Mary's pretty eyes rise again as she calmly asks, in that cute little eight year old voice: 
MARY Have you ever killed a chinaman? 
DAGGETT No Mary, I haven't. 
MARY They don't bleed. Not the way you and I do. Or maybe it was just the cold... 
Thomas looks to Katherine for an explanation, but she's as confused as him. 
MARY I've killed them, you know. Lots. You could always tell when they were coming. There'd be the trumpets first. Every note flat. Then those songs... After that they'd charge. Right down through the snow. The guns would freeze and it would be just knives... It was so cold and there were so many of them. But I was smarter than they were. Even at Chosin, I was smarter... 
Mary's been explaining this in a girlish, show-'n-tell kind of way. Suddenly her face cracks as her voice chokes with a sob. 
MARY It scares me, Miss Henley. I hate it. Please, make it stop! 
She buries herself into Katherine's arms, sobbing. 
MARY Make it stop! 
KATHERINE (rocking her) It's okay... It's okay... 
Mary suddenly pushes away and runs back toward the trailer, into the arms of her grandmother. 
KATHERINE I'm sorry, I didn't mean to -- 
GRANDMOTHER It's all right, Miss Henley. We know you love Mary... 
KATHERINE What are we going to do? 
GRANDMOTHER She's going to have the Enemy Ghost Way. We leave this afternoon. 
The grandmother turns and walks back to the trailer. 
DAGGETT Where will they do the ceremony? 
KATHERINE In the home village. The Hand Trembler must have found corpse sickness... 
DAGGETT They're taking her away? Shouldn't she see a doctor? 
KATHERINE She's already seen a doctor. (then, under her breath) That son of a bitch... 
DAGGETT Who? 
KATHERINE Gabriel the children called him. The little shit was hanging around my kids this morning asking about Mary. He and his buddy make a real pair. 
DAGGETT Maybe it's time I checked out Mr. Gabriel. 
Katherine turns from trailer and looks at him. 
KATHERINE I know where he parks his car. 
INT. THOMAS'S CAR - DAY 
Katherine and Thomas drive back down the road leading to town. 
KATHERINE Chinamen? Chosin? I've never heard her talk like that before. 
DAGGETT Chosin Reservoir was a Korean war battle the Marines had against the Chinese, supposedly the bloodiest hand-to-hand fighting of the century. Someone been teaching that to your class? 
KATHERINE Sure, right next to Jack 'N Jill. 
DAGGETT Where would she have heard it? 
KATHERINE Nobody I can think of. (beat) Maybe one. 
DAGGETT Who? 
KATHERINE General Hawthorne. 
DAGGETT Did she know him? 
KATHERINE He didn't like children. 
EXT. MINE - DAY 
Katherine and Thomas lie in the dust outside the mine's tunnel entrance. Catching their breath. Trying to organize and repair the short circuits in their brains. Thomas rolls on his side, squints at the sun. Katherine's voice is faint and raspy. 
KATHERINE What... What was that? Hell? 
DAGGETT ...No. The voices. They were screaming and fighting over... theology. They don't sweat much about that in hell. But they do in... heaven. 
He squeezes a handful of dirt in his hands. 
DAGGETT The son of a bitch. He carries it around with him like a photo album. A big, greasy cloud wherever he goes. They all do. 
KATHERINE How can that be heaven? Jesus Christ. How? I don't even believe in heaven. 
The tears start rolling down her face. She looks up and shouts at the endless sky above them. 
KATHERINE You dumb fucking assholes! How could you have done that! 
DAGGETT That extra chapter by St. John was right. It's a war... Just like the first one. Just like when the angel Michael beat Lucifer and cast him out. Only now they've turned on each other... Turned on each other in a civil war over theology. 
He laughs hopelessly at the insanity of it all. 
DAGGETT Oh sweet God, theology. (sighs) "God's wild bunch". (shouts) God's morons! 
KATHERINE How do you know know so much about that? 
DAGGETT I just know. (shakes his head) Yes folks, the good news is that there's life after death in heaven. The bad news is that it's as screwed up as here. 
KATHERINE They were like us. 
DAGGETT They are us. Aborted children. And they need us. They need our corrupt, dark souls for their fight. They need... 
KATHERINE ...Mary. 
Katherine climbs abruptly to her feet and walks for the car. 
DAGGETT What are you doing? 
KATHERINE I don't know what this is. I don't know what I believe. I don't know if my sanity is lying back in that cave flopping around waiting for me. But I know one thing. Those... Those things aren't taking her! 
INT. THOMAS'S CAR 
Katherine and Thomas drive along in silence. Finally, 
KATHERINE In those... visions... did you ever see... God? 
DAGGETT No. 
KATHERINE Me either. 
INT. MARY'S GRANDMOTHER'S TRAILER 
Katherine and Thomas open the trailer door and enter cautiously. 
KATHERINE Mary? 
Thomas looks out the window and notices for the first time, parked behind the trailer, Gabriel's rambler. He immediately pulls out his pistol, runs for the closed door at the end of the hall and KICKS it in. The door FLIES open, revealing Gabriel sitting on the bed beside Mary. 
DAGGETT Get away from her. 
His gun's leveled at Gabriel's head. The angel sits there impassively, then smiles. 
GABRIEL You know. Son of a bitch, the priest wanna-be actually figured it out. That's a rare club, son. At least down here. 
DAGGETT Back away from the kid, man. Now. 
GABRIEL She won't feel anything, honest. I'll have to tear her apart of course -- just the way it goes -- but it'll be all right in the end. A good catholic boy like you, Mr. Daggett, you should be on my side. 
DAGGETT Goddamn it -- 
GABRIEL You're gonna have to watch that profanity. 
Jerry suddenly LEAPS out from behind the door and TACKLES Thomas to the carpet. The gun skitters to one side as Jerry SINKS his rotting teeth into Thomas's shoulder. Thomas cries out and SLAMS his fist against Jerry's head, knocking off an ear. 
Gabriel turns back to Mary's frightened face and smiles as he runs a hand through her hair. 
GABRIEL It'll only be a moment... 
Katherine suddenly HAMMERS Gabriel across the side of the head with a chair, KNOCKING him to the floor. As he gets up she HITS him again. 
Thomas manages to bring his leg up and KICKS Jerry hard against the chest, forcing him off. 
Gabriel GRABS both of Katherine's legs and PULLS, CRASHING her flat on her back. 
Thomas scrambles for his gun, grabs it, and as Jerry comes at him again spins and FIRES twice. The slugs RIP into Jerry's chest and knock him to his knees. As the putrid, curdled juices pump lumpily out of him, Jerry looks up at Thomas and smiles. 
The second deputy has walked over to Gabriel. 
DEPUTY Is he alive? 
DEPUTY #2 He's alive. 
DEPUTY Cuff him. We'll take him to the hospital in our car. 
DAGGETT -- No, you don't understand. You have to let me have him -- 
The volunteer fire engine growls up through the weeds, drowning out Thomas's words. Two firemen kneel down beside him with medical kits. 
The deputy has walked over to his partner and the two are dragging back between them a cuffed, comatose Gabriel. 
DAGGETT (hoarse, faint) You'll never hold him. 
Thomas tries to get up, but the pain and a hand from the firemen keep him down. As the deputies pass, he manages to desperately grab the one's pant cuff. 
DAGGETT Take off his sunglasses... Jesus Christ, just take off his sunglasses... 
Gabriel's head lies low between the shoulders. The deputy looks with concern at the firemen. 
FIREMAN (re Thomas) He'll be all right. Just a bad hit. 
The deputy nods. As they carry on to the car with Gabriel, the angel turns his head slightly and smiles a smile only for Thomas. 
FIREMAN (to partner) Let's get a splint. 
The patrol car pulls away. As the firemen walk back to their engine, Thomas looks frantically at Katherine. 
DAGGETT We have to get out of here. 
KATHERINE But your head... 
DAGGETT If you want Mary to stay alive past sundown we have to leave, and we have to do it now. 
They lock eyes. Then Katherine without a word helps Thomas up into the passenger side of the pickup. Mary gathers her grandmother into the pickup's bed and climbs up beside her as Katherine starts the engine. The firemen turn in confusion as the truck peels out of the lot and up onto the road. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 
Katherine's truck shoots by. Just before town, near the copper mine, it slows down at a junction. 
And there, lying on its side down the embankment, is the sheriff's patrol car. A single, bent tire turns aimlessly. 
Katherine hits the gas and takes the junction that leads away from town, out onto the endless expanse of the plateau. 
INT. TRUCK 
The bandage on Thomas's forehead covers most of one eye. He closes the other tightly, riding a spasm of pain, before letting his forehead rest against the door glass and gazing out at the empty tracks of land. 
DAGGETT Where are we going? 
KATHERINE Mary's village. 
Katherine looks over her shoulder to Mary's grandmother sitting in the truck bed. She nods in understanding. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Katherine's pickup passing alone through the wrinkled desert. 
EXT. GAS STATION - DAY 
A trading post with a few pumps, growing orange in the weakening afternoon light. A scruffy dog barks constantly as the teenage Indian sticks the nozzle in Katherine's pickup. Still glassy-eyed with throbbing pain, Thomas takes another handful of aspirin and climbs out of the cab. 
There's a tiny, weatherbeaten church across the weedy lot from the trading post with a pay phone bolted to it. Thomas crunches across the lot, picks up the receiver, and punches in some numbers. 
TELEPHONE VOICE County Coroner's office, Assistant Coroner Raphael speaking. 
DAGGETT Willie? 
VOICE Tom? 
DAGGETT You weren't crazy, man. 
And Thomas hangs up. He backs away from the phone and for the first time notices the church it's attached to. 
INT. CHURCH 
Thomas steps inside. It's empty and there's some doubt whether it's been used in a generation. The pews are dusty and scraped, some broken down completely. Thomas sits in one and looks across the space and dust and years to the crucifix hanging behind the altar. 
DAGGETT So what's the deal, huh? 
The pew creaks and groans as he shifts his weight. 
DAGGETT I mean, do you have any kind of plan here? Cause I'm just about of ideas, friend. 
Katherine wanders along the edge of the village, turning up her collar under a blinding mass of stars. There's nothing beyond the village. Not a light, not a sound. Say the wind. It is the icy brush of wind on her body that now whispers. 
VOICE Hello, Katherine. 
Like the wind, it is low and thin and hoarse. Like the wind it seems to come from everywhere. And, like the wind, it is utterly without pity or remorse. 
Katherine turns. 
Perched on the wall behind her in a low crouch is a figure clad entirely in layers of black. Its head and hands are hairless and waxy white. There are eyes in this winged head, but blood chilling ones of putrid yellow. There are endless scars and shapes and wrinkles, but mostly, only, there are the eyes. 
Katherine gulps down, with only partial success, the hysteria rising in her throat. 
KATHERINE Oh Lord, I can't do this. I can't do this anymore... 
FIGURE We must talk, Katherine. 
It's takes all her strength to look upon him. 
KATHERINE You're... You're... (tries to form the word) ...God? 
FIGURE God is love, Katherine. 
The eyes narrow. Rippling pools of unfathomable evil. 
FIGURE -- I don't love you. 
There's a crouched silhouette beside the figure. Dimmer. Skinny. A wheezing sycophant. An afterthought. 
Katherine backs away from both of them. 
KATHERINE I can't. I can't do this tonight. Go away. 
FIGURE I can kill you, Katherine. I can lay you out and fill your mouth with your mother's feces. Or I can talk with you. 
Katherine stops. Faces him. 
FIGURE I am here, before you, in a form to put you at ease. 
KATHERINE Good job. 
The sycophant shivers and ruffles something feathery under its cloak. 
FIGURE I rarely do this in person. I am, perhaps, somewhat out of touch. 
KATHERINE Are you one of them? 
FIGURE No. 
KATHERINE You're not an angel? 
FIGURE Oh, I am an angel. A very special one. The first. The oldest. The naive eagle scout, he once loved me above all others, and I him. It was the only true love for either of us, but like all true love, it couldn't possibly last. 
The figure cranes his neck around to the horizon beyond them. The movement makes a liquid, snapping sound. 
FIGURE The winged party boys will come, Katherine. They'll come to feed on the guts of your little Mary. 
KATHERINE What do you care? 
FIGURE I have my interests... 
He turns back to her. 
FIGURE The naive eagle scout, he has his interests too. He even has a place for them, as I do for mine. Big, shiny place. You'd like it. Only it's been empty for a long time. Can't open till after the resurrection. The problem's with the hired help. Always had problems with the hired help. They're arrogant, boastful little pricks. Not like me. What I did I did for love. But they, the winged party boys, even before the park could open for its first customer, they started fighting over the popcorn stand. 
The figure shifts his perch on the wall. 
FIGURE You see, Katherine, heaven can't start accepting guests till this fight is settled. And without people, there is no heaven. All those good and true souls left mouldering in the ground clutching their H-tickets and waiting and waiting and waiting... Some, lying down there with the worms century after century, they start to get doubts about the whole program. That's when, out of sheer boredom, some of them come to me. Because I'm always open for business. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Even on Christmas. 
The figure's face darkens. 
FIGURE Some of the angels cheat. They sneak a few souls in to help with the fight. The really dark ones. And now one of them has found a special soul so wonderfully sick that it might just win it for them. And if one side wins, even the wrong one, then there's no fight. And if there's no fight, there can be a heaven. 
KATHERINE And if there's a heaven? 
FIGURE I'd be very unhappy. (beat) I am here to help you and the little bitch not because I love you, not because I care about you, but because I want this war to go on and on and on. 
The figure straightens up, stretching its spine. 
FIGURE I bring you the chance to save your Mary, Katherine. And along the way, stop the resurrection. 
KATHERINE How? 
FIGURE Listen when I speak. Now go to bed, Katherine. Tomorrow, I promise you, is a big day. 
INT. HOGAN 
DAGGETT Yeah, He's certainly a shy son of a bitch, I'll give Him that. 
KATHERINE Maybe we're not supposed to. Maybe that's faith. 
DAGGETT Do you still have faith in anything, Katherine? 
KATHERINE I have faith in Mary. And that I'm going to save that little girl from those creeping things out there. From all of them. 
DAGGETT Maybe you were called to something after all. 
KATHERINE Maybe we both were. 
The oil lamp wanes and fades. Katherine lays her head on Thomas's shoulder, and as darkness swallows them he holds her. They hold each other. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
John the bus driver lying fully dressed on his bed asleep. The night breeze through the window, and maybe something else, tickles his nose. His eyes open, blink, turn left, right, then up, 
-- And see Gabriel perched on the headboard, staring down at him. 
GABRIEL Heavy sleeper, John. 
John's eyes open wide in shock. Gabriel's skin is blackened and blistered in parts. Whole shards of his shirt are missing. John tries to sit up but Gabriel forces his head back down with his palm. With the ease of a spider he slides down and beside John. 
JOHN Don't -- Don't hurt me, man. My wallet's in the dresser. 
GABRIEL Don't be such a materialist, John. (sees empty bourbon bottle on dresser, sighs) No end to your bad habits. 
JOHN What do you want? 
GABRIEL A moment of your time. 
JOHN You ought to have that nose looked at, man. 
Gabriel leans said nose in very close and whispers, 
GABRIEL Where are they, John? Katherine and Mary? Where would they go? 
JOHN What? Mary? I don't know. 
GABRIEL Sure you do. Think hard. 
JOHN No, really. I don't know. The school maybe. 
GABRIEL Now you're not even trying, John. You're Katherine's best friend. She tells you everything. 
JOHN I'm just the driver, y'know? 
Gabriel extends a blistered, open palm over John's face. 
GABRIEL I can help you remember, John... 
FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ROOM 
We see Gabriel leaning over John as a sickly yellow glow begins to rise and reflect off the walls. Beneath it comes John's worst and deepest screams... 
CUT TO: 
Gabriel SPLASHING the soot off his face and arms in a small, institutional bathroom. He looks at himself in the mirror, runs a hand through his hair, and walks out the door into 
A HOSPITAL CORRIDOR 
At the end of it is the intensive care unit, that institutional purgatory where a small handful of patients, wired and tubed and oxygenated, lay inconclusively between life and death. There's a nurse's station there, all health status video screens and a single nurse that looks up from her work at Gabriel. 
NURSE Can I help you? 
GABRIEL Someone's going to die here soon. I'll just be a minute. 
NURSE There's no visitors allowed in ICU. 
GABRIEL The timing's important. I can smell these things, you know. 
The nurse reaches for the telephone. Gabriel takes it away from her with one hand and with the other grasps her face open-palmed and whispers, 
GABRIEL Go to sleep. 
The nurse slides out of her chair and collapses to the floor. Gabriel pulls out the metal clipboards holding each patient's chart and flips through them, tossing one after another aside as unsuitable. 
GABRIEL Recovering... Recovering... Stable... (finally settles on one) Deteriorating critical. 
Satisfied, he steps over to one of the beds, pulls back the curtain and sits down beside an unconscious, middle-aged woman. He watches patiently, listening the beeping scrawl of the EKG above her. 
It was weak to begin with but now it's faltering badly, becoming the unsynched etchings of a child. A beeping alarm has begun to ring and her breathing is slowing to nothing. At the last possible moment Gabriel places his fingers across her face, whispering to her, coaxing her. 
GABRIEL Whoa, not just yet. Come on back. That's it... 
LUCIFER Don't press your luck, Mr. Daggett. 
And you know instantly, in the bottom of your stomach, that those eyes mean it. 
LUCIFER Go and get ready, Thomas. 
Thomas hesitates, holds the gaze, then turns and leaves. In an instant Lucifer sweeps down from the hogan roof to Katherine's side. Face and eyes and maggot breath uncomfortably close, he smiles. 
LUCIFER Have you ever considered Katherine, that the great absentee landlord, the soft-eyed eagle scout your childhood prayers are for, is just using you? That you're only the exterminator to get rid of his pests? 
Lucifer places a cloaked arm around her shoulder and leads her to the walled edge to look out across the endless plateau. His mouth presses against her ear and whispers, 
LUCIFER God's junkies are coming, Katherine. And when they do, all hell is going to break loose... 
CUT TO: 
A tiny speck on the empty horizon. It grows, takes shape, and finally becomes a red convertible rambler as it WOOSHES past on a desolate throat of forgotten highway. 
Gabriel's at the wheel. Beside him, grey-blonde hair streaming out behind her, is Rachael, recently lifted from the file- and-forget section of the hospital ICU. She tilts her head up. Lets the sun warm her pallor. Just a sociopathic angel and his somewhat deceased babe out for a top-down cruise across a sixty million year old desert. 
It could happen. 
INT. ROADSIDE DINER - DAY 
A reality bruised waitress, Madge, sets down a coffee and milkshake before Gabriel. He downs the shake in one belt. 
GABRIEL Say, Ma'am, any idea where I can find Old Woman Butte? 
MADGE It's on the reservation. 
GABRIEL I don't suppose you could be just a tad more specific. Madge. 
The waitress' eyes move from the guy with sunglasses and burn marks on his shirt to the woman sitting alone outside in the rambler. 
MADGE Isn't your friend hungry? 
GABRIEL Not for a while, I'm afraid. Funniest thing. 
Madge has a lot of things she misses in her life, but one of them she decides isn't Gabriel. 
MADGE Take 522 to the Sonsela Wash cut- off. First dirt road go left. Twenty, twenty-five miles you'll see it. Big, black and all alone. 
Gabriel downs the coffee, stands, and tosses a bill on the counter. 
GABRIEL I doubt we'll meet again. 
MADGE Suits me. 
EXT. VILLAGE - DAY 
Thomas drags a heavy chain from Katherine's truck and begins fastening it to a post. Lucifer watches perched on a nearby rooftop. 
DAGGETT You could always lend a hand. 
Lucifer just smiles or sneers or whatever he does with that hideous mouth. 
INSIDE THE KIVA 
Grey Horse begins laying out his prayer instruments as Mary is prepared with paint and oils. 
OUTSIDE 
Katherine leans against the doorway, nervously watching the horizon. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The sky thinning into uneasy pastels as the sun falls unceremoniously toward the mountains. A few lanterns have been lit, and from inside the kiva can be heard the chants of the Navaho Enemy Ghost Way. 
Katherine's eyes are still on a horizon dropping off into shadow. She stiffens. There, at the end of the earth, appears a silent plume of dust. It could be anybody's car, but it can only be one car. Thomas steps up beside her. 
KATHERINE He's coming. 
Thomas sticks his head into the kiva, speaks softly to one of the elderly villagers attending the ceremony. 
DAGGETT Is there any way to speed this up? 
VILLAGER No. 
A fire has been built on the kiva's floor. Through the choking smoke can be seen Mary lying on a mat as Grey Horse chants to the yei spirits and adds fine colored earth to the growing sand painting beside her. His voice rises and falls in guttural syntax. He's coaxing. Coaxing the alien spirit out of the child. 
DAGGETT Lock the door. 
He pulls his head out and hands Katherine the pistol. 
DAGGETT Stay inside. It's only one round, so make it count. 
It's about all one human can take. 
Mad with pain and anger and desperation, Thomas manages to climb to a shaky crouch, Rachael still shrieking on his back. Throwing all his weight backward, he JAMS her into the short stone wall. The impact SNAPS her hold and PROPELS her over the wall -- 
And two thousand feet down the side of the butte. 
Thomas Daggett can only curl up into a ball, gulping shallow, shuddering breaths. 
IN THE VILLAGE 
Gabriel walks resolutely up to the first hogan and KICKS down the plank wood door. No one home. He walks to the second and KICKS its door down. Nothing. 
IN THE KIVA 
Mary's ceremony is nearing a crescendo. Grey Horse has donned the colorful mask of the yei god Monster Slayer as the relatives now join in the guttural chants of the Enemy Ghost Way. Through the thick, choking smoke of the ceremonial fire we see Katherine, nervously watching the door. 
IN THE DARKNESS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE 
Thomas tries hopelessly to make his way back. Stumbling every few steps, he's beyond pain and into driven numbness. It's hopeless though. We know it. 
IN THE VILLAGE 
Gabriel KICKS down another door to another empty hogan. There's only one left. As he approaches, from within can be heard the muffled sound of chanting. 
THOMAS 
Takes a few more fumbling steps and falls again. He reaches out to something metal for support. It's Katherine's pickup. 
GABRIEL 
Steps up to the kiva door and KICKS it. The frame buckles but holds. He steps back a few feet, puts all his weight into a turn, and KICKS again. The door SHATTERS. 
INSIDE 
Wood splinters ROCKET through the smoke as Gabriel appears in the doorway. Grey Horse, everyone, freezes. 
GABRIEL Relax folks, it's just a soul. 
From out of the smoke steps Katherine. She FIRES, one round, into Gabriel's side. The archangel is pitched against the kiva's wall, where he stays a moment before turning to Katherine. 
GABRIEL I'm getting real tired of you. 
She stands her ground between him and the child. 
KATHERINE Go to hell. 
GABRIEL Heaven, darling. Heaven. At least get the zip code right. 
KATHERINE It's all the same, isn't it? 
GABRIEL No. In heaven we believe in love. 
KATHERINE And what do you love, Gabriel? 
Once again, the shade of doubt holds him up. But it's quickly pushed aside for a corrupted grin. He's given up all pretense. 
GABRIEL -- Cracking your skull. 
He advances on her. 
KATHERINE That's all it is for you anymore, Gabriel, isn't it? Just the killing and the burning. You don't work for God anymore. You don't fight for love. 
GABRIEL Shut up! 
And he's on her. With his left arm he brutally forces her to her knees as his right hand, palm out and fingers splayed, clamp themselves over her face. Katherine's mouth opens in a silent scream as the pain, immediate and beyond endurance, flows through her body. 
From somewhere outside, there's a sound. 
Katherine gulps chokes of agony as her very clothes begin to smolder around her. 
We hear the sound once more, closer, before -- 
The entire kiva wall EXPLODES INWARD as Katherine's pickup CRASHES through it. The mangled grill and hood SLAM into Gabriel from the side and SMASH him to the ground like a broken puppet. Katherine falls backward to the floor, gets up, and runs to the truck's cab. Inside sits a near catatonic Thomas. Katherine takes only a second to share a look with him before reaching back and pulling out the pickup's tire iron. 
Gabriel, a shattered, broken thing, pulls himself up to his knees. The sunglasses are gone and two eyeless pits stare out at Mary, huddled in the corner. Bleeding from every pore, one arm bent back the wrong way, he crawls across the floor toward her, his voice the milky slur of a stroke victim. 
GABRIEL God loves you, Mary! 
Katherine brings the tire iron down on his skull with all her might, DRIVING him to the floor. She turns to Grey Horse, her eyes wild. 
KATHERINE Finish it. 
He, everyone, just stare. Stunned to stone. 
KATHERINE Finish it! 
MARY I'm okay. 
Katherine gathers her up into her arms and holds her. 
KATHERINE It's going to be okay... We're all going to be okay... 
The chattering, hissing sycophant grabs Gabriel's body by the hair and shoulders and drags it out the door. Lucifer has remained behind, crouched on his haunches, his liquid, yellow eyes on Katherine. 
KATHERINE I can't quite bring myself to say thank you. 
LUCIFER I understand. 
KATHERINE Then this is done. 
LUCIFER Not necessarily. Maybe I like you. Maybe I want you to come with me. 
He rises to his feet and steps slowly toward her. 
LUCIFER You owe me, Katherine. And you're going to ask me to take you home. 
KATHERINE (clutching Mary) No. 
LUCIFER You will. You will because any other way is going to be more awful than you can imagine. 
KATHERINE Are you threatening me? 
Just a grinning, twisted stare. 
KATHERINE Then you've picked the wrong person this time. I've just about had it up to here with ghosts. So you can put away the horror movie sneer and the K-Mart halloween eyes, because we know you now. We know you all. And if you want to force the issue then go ahead because you're just another angel to me. Take a look at your buddy Gabriel. Then ask yourself, do you really, really want to fuck with us? 
The smallest hint of a pause. 
LUCIFER Perhaps another time. 
KATHERINE I'm holding my breath. 
LUCIFER Goodbye, Katherine. For now. 
And he's gone. Through the door and into the night. 
MARY Is he coming back? 
KATHERINE I don't think so, honey... I don't think so... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
The fullness of day over Old Woman Butte, hot and bright. Chasing the night and its fears away under the punishing glare of noon. 
The village is full of police vehicles now. Green broncos from the Navaho Tribal Police. Blue and white sheriff department sedans. 
The Navaho cops are talking with Katherine and Mary. Thomas is sitting on the trunk of a patrol car getting his wounds properly bandaged as the Sheriff we met earlier leans beside him chewing on a wild oat stalk. 
SHERIFF (to deputy bandaging Thomas) Is he going to live? 
DEPUTY With any luck. 
SHERIFF (to Thomas) I thought I told you to give me a call if anything snarled. 
DAGGETT There wasn't a phone. 
SHERIFF Hmmm. 
He chews some more on his stalk. Looks off at the village. 
SHERIFF This fella, Gabriel... 
DAGGETT Yeah. 
SHERIFF Gabriel what? 
DAGGETT Just Gabriel. 
SHERIFF Pretty violent guy, Gabriel. Even for out here. 
DAGGETT Yeah. 
SHERIFF Caught up with him at the village? 
DAGGETT He caught up with me. 
SHERIFF What were you doing way up here? 
DAGGETT Enemy Ghost Way for Mary Tsosie. 
SHERIFF Indian stuff. 
