"PSYCHO" 
"PSYCHO" 
By 
Joseph Stefano 
Based on the novel by Robert Bloch 
REVISED December 1, 1959 
FADE IN: 
EXT. PHOENIX, ARIZONA - (DAY) - HELICOPTER SHOT 
Above Midtown section of the city. It is early afternoon, a hot mid-summer day. The city is sun-sunblanched white and its drifted-up noises are muted in blanched their own echoes. We fly low, heading in a downtown direction, passing over traffic-clogged streets, parking lots, white business buildings, neatly patterned residential districts. As we approach downtown section, the character of the city begins to change. It is darker and shabby with age and industry. We see railroad tracks, smokestacks, wholesale fruit-and- vegetable markets, old municipal buildings, empty lots. vegetable The very geography seems to give us a climate of nefariousness, of back-doorness, dark and shadowy. And secret. 
We fly lower and faster now, as if seeking out a specific location. A skinny, high old hotel comes into view. On its exposed brick side great painted letters advertise "Transients- Low Weekly Rates-Radio in Every Room." We pause long enough to establish the shoddy character of this hotel. Its open, curtainless windows, its silent resigned look so characteristic of such hole-and-corner hotels. We move forward with purposefulness and-toward a certain window. The sash is raised as high as it can go, but the shade is pulled down to three or four inches of the inside sill, as if the occupants of the room within wanted privacy but needed air. We are close now, so that only the lower half of the window frame is in shot. No sounds come from within the room. 
Suddenly, we tip downward, go to the narrow space between shade and sill, peep into the room. 
A young woman is stretched out on the mussed bed. She wears a full slip, stockings, no shoes. She lies in and attitude of physical relaxation, but her face, seen in the dimness of the room, betrays a certain inner-tension, worrisome conflicts. She is MARY CRANE, an tension, attractive girl nearing the end of her twenties and her rope. 
A man stands beside the bed, only the lower half of his figure visible. We hold on this tableau for a long moment, then start forward. As we pass under the window shade, 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE HOTEL ROOM - (DAY) 
A small room, a slow fan buzzing on a shelf above the narrow bed. A card of hotel rules is pasted on the mirror above the bureau. An unopened suitcase and a woman's large, straw open- top handbag are on the bureau. 
On the table beside the bed there are a container of Coco- Cola and an unwrapped, untouched egg-salad sandwich. There is no radio. 
The man standing by the bed, wearing only trousers, T-shirt and sox, is SAM LOOMIS, a good-looking, sensual shirt man with warm humorous eyes and a compelling smile. He is blotting his neck and face with a thin towel, and is staring down at Mary, a small sweet smile playing about his mouth. Mary keeps her face turned away from him. 
After a moment, Sam drops the towel, sits on the bed, leans over and takes Mary into his arms, kisses her long and warmly, holds her with a firm possessiveness. The kiss is disturbed and finally interrupted by the buzzing closeness of an inconsiderate fly. Sam smiles, pulls away enough to allow Mary to relax again against the pillow. He studies her, frowns at her unresponsiveness, then speaks in a low, intimate, playful voice. 
SAM Never did eat your lunch, did you. 
Mary looks at his smile, has to respond, pulls him to her, kisses him. Then, and without breaking the kiss, she swings her legs over the side of the bed, toe-searches around, finds her shoes, slips her feet into searches them. And finally pulls away and sits up. 
MARY I better get back to the office. These extended lunch hours give my boss excess acid. 
She rises, goes to the bureau, takes a pair of small earrings out of her bag, begins putting them on, not bothering or perhaps not wanting to look at herself in the mirror. Sam watches her, concerned but unable to inhibit his cheery, humorous good mood. Throughout remainder of this scene, they occupy themselves with dressing, hair-combing, etc. 
SAM Call your boss and tell him you're taking the rest of the afternoon off. It's Friday anyway... and hot. 
MARY (soft sarcasm) What do I do with my free afternoon, walk you to the airport? 
SAM (meaningfully) We could laze around here a while longer. 
MARY Checking out time is three P.M. Hotels of this sort aren't interested in you when you come in, but when your time's up... (a small anguish) Sam, I hate having to be with you in a place like this. 
SAM I've heard of married couples who deliberately spend occasional nights in cheap hotels. They say it... 
MARY (interrupting) When you're married you can do a lot of things deliberately. 
SAM You sure talk like a girl who's been married. 
MARY Sam! 
SAM I'm sorry, Mary. (after a moment) My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it. 
MARY I've lost my girlish laughter. 
SAM (observing) The only girlish thing you have lost. 
MARY (a meaningful quiet, then, with difficulty:) Sam. This is the last time. 
SAM For what? 
MARY This! Meeting you in secret so we can be... secretive! You come down here on business trips and we steal lunch hours and... I wish you wouldn't even come. 
SAM Okay. What do we do instead, write each other lurid love letters? 
Mary goes out quickly, closing door behind her. As Sam stares down at his shoeless feet, 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - (DAY) - HIGH ANGLE 
Shooting down at hotel entrance. Mary comes out, walks quickly to a parked cab, gets in. The cab zooms up the awful street. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. LOWERY REAL ESTATE OFFICE - (DAY) 
A small, moderately successful office off the main street. A cab pulls up at the curb. We see Mary get out of cab, pay driver, cross pavement to the office door. 
INT. OUTER OFFICE - (DAY) 
Mary enters office, crosses to her desk, sits down, rubs her temples, finally looks over at Caroline, a girl in the last of her teens. 
MARY Isn't Mr. Lowery back from lunch? 
CAROLINE (a high, bright, eager- to-talk voice laced to-with a vague Texan accent) He's lunching with the man who's buying the Harris Street property, you know, that oil lease man...  so that's why he's late. (a pause, then, as Mary does not respond to the pointed thrust) You getting a headache? 
MARY It'll pass. Headaches are like resolutions... you forget them soon as they stop hurting. 
CAROLINE You got aspirins? I have something... not aspirins, but (cheerfully takes bottle of pills out of desk drawer) my mother's doctor gave these to me the day of my wedding. (laughs) Teddy was furious when he found out I'd taken tranquilizers! 
She rises, starts for Mary's desk, pills in hand. 
MARY Were there any calls? 
CAROLINE Teddy called.  Me... And my mother called to see if Teddy called. Oh, and your sister called to say she's going to Tucson to do some buying and she'll be gone the whole weekend and... 
She breaks off, distracted by the SOUND of the door opening. MR. LOWERY and his oil-lease client, TOM CASSIDY enter the office. Lowery is a pleasant, worried-faced man, big and a trifle pompous. Cassidy is very faced loud and has a lunch- hour load on. He is a gross man, exuding a kind of pitiful vulgarity. 
CASSIDY Wow! Hot as fresh milk! You girls should get your boss to air-condition you up. He can afford it today. 
Lowery flashes an embarrassed smile at Mary, tries to lead Cassidy toward the private office. 
LOWERY Mary, will you get those copies of the deed ready for Mr. Cassidy. 
Cassidy pauses beside Mary's desk, hooks a haunch onto the desktop, smiles a wet smile at Mary. 
CASSIDY Tomorrow's the day! My sweet little girl... (laughs as Mary looks up at him) Not you, my daughter!  A baby, and tomorrow she stands up there and gets her sweet self married away from me! (pulling out wallet) I want you to look at my baby. Eighteen years old... and she's never had an unhappy day in any one of those years! (flashes photo) 
Mary glances, cannot bring herself to smile or make some remark, continues sorting out the deed copies, tries to ignore the man's hot-breath closeness. 
LOWERY Come on, Tom, my office is air- conditioned. 
CASSIDY (ignoring Lowery) You know what I do with unhappiness? I buy it off! You unhappy? 
MARY Not inordinately. (puts deed copy into Cassidy's too-close hand) 
CASSIDY I'm buying this house for my baby's wedding present. Forty thousand dollars, cash! Now that ain't buying happiness, that's buying off unhappiness! That penniless punk she's marryin'... (laughs) Probably a good kid... it's just that I hate him. (looks at deed) Yup! Forty thousand, says here... (to Lowery) Casharoonie! 
He takes out of his inside pocket, two separate bundles of new $100 bills and throws them onto the desk, under Mary's nose. Caroline's eyes go wide at the sight of the glorious green bundles of bills, and she comes close to the desk. Cassidy leans terribly close to Mary, flicks through the bills, laughs wickedly. 
CASSIDY I never carry more than I can afford to lose! (closer to Mary) Count 'em! 
LOWERY (shocked, worried) Tom... cash transactions of this size! Most irregular... 
CASSIDY So what? It's my private money! (laughs, winks, elbows Lowery) And now it's yours. 
CAROLINE (staring at the money) I declare! 
CASSIDY (whispering) I don't! That's how I'm able to keep it! (laughs) 
LOWERY (hastily interrupting) Suppose we just put this in the safe and then Monday morning when you're feeling good... 
CASSIDY Speakin' of feeling good, where's that bottle you said you had in your desk... (laughs, as if having given away Lowery's secret) Oops! (to Mary, patting her arm) Usually I can keep my mouth shut! 
He rises, reels toward Lowery's office, pauses, turns, speaks to Mary, meaningfully. 
CASSIDY Honest. I can keep any private transaction a secret... any pri.... (stopped by Mary's cold gaze) Lowery! I'm dyin' of thirstaroonie! 
Lowery starts after him, pauses, turns to Mary. Cassidy has gone into Lower's office. 
MARY'S CAR - (DAY) 
Mary watches the entire exchange with a look of stony horror on her face. 
EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY) 
Now we look closely at Lowery. As he reaches the curb, a small confusion brightens his face. He remembers that Mary intended to "spend the weekend in bed." He considers, curiously, turns, looks back at her, a slight frown on his face. 
MARY'S CAR - (DAY) 
Mary sees the pause and the look. 
EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY) 
For a moment it even looks as if Lowery might be meaning to cross back to the car. 
MARY'S CAR - (DAY) 
Mary's tension is unbearable. And at that moment we hear the shrill shriek of the traffic cop's whistle. 
Mary zooms the car away. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. HIGHWAY - (DAY) 
Mary in car, driving, safely away from town. Her look is less tense now, and more purposeful. After a moment, she checks the fuel gauge, frowns, looks along highway for a gas station. 
FAST DISSOLVE TO: 
MARY'S CAR - (DAY) 
Approaching and leaving city limits. 
MARY - (DAY) 
Looks at gas gauge. 
C.U. GAS GAUGE - (DAY) 
EXT. A GAS STATION - (DAY) 
We see Mary's car drive in, come to a stop. There are no other cars about, this being a gas station off the main highway, and the attendant is obviously in the shack. Mary looks worried about having to make this stop, keeps her face turned away from the shack, not wishing it to be seen. 
No one comes and for a moment Mary considers driving on, as if the emptiness of the station were a warning, an omen that she should listen to. But the gas registers almost empty. She has to blow her horn. 
A YOUNG MAN comes out of the shack, starts toward her car. 
At that moment, we HEAR the RINGING of the TELEPHONE in the shack. The Attendant walks a few steps further, toward Mary's car, then decides to go back and answer the phone. The phone's insistent ringing unnerves Mary. 
She starts her car, zooms off. 
We see the Attendant, phone in hand, in the doorway of shack. He looks after the departing car with little or no expression. 
CAR 
The car grows smaller as it races up the road. The sun is setting. There is something vaguely ominous about the darkening sky into which the car seems to be disappearing. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MARY IN CAR - (NIGHT) 
The oncoming headlights hurt Mary's eyes. She is getting sleepy and her vision is blurring. Her eyes close, involuntarily, snap open again. She stretches than wide, as if forcing them to stay open. The oncoming lights seem to glare to a point beyond endurance. She murmurs "Sam - Sam." 
LONG LAP DISSOLVE: 
EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - (DAWN) 
We see Mary's car, dim in the early dawn, tilted on the soft shoulder of the road, looking somehow sad and pathetic, like a child's thrown-away toy. And from this angle it would appear that the car is empty. 
After a moment, during which there are no other vehicles passing, we see, coming from the far distance, a HIGHWAY PATROLMAN in a patrol car. He passes Mary's car, notes its apparent emptiness, U-turns, comes back up behind the car. He gets out and approaches the driver's side window. 
EXT. MARY'S CAR - (DAWN) 
The Patrolman looks down into the car. 
She takes it, looks at him for a flicker of a moment. 
He says nothing. She starts ahead, fast. 
EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - (DAWN) 
The Patrolman stares after Mary as she drives off, then starts back to his automobile. 
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN) 
She is quite shaken, realizes she caused herself a great deal of trouble and placed herself in unnecessary danger. She is disturbed and angry and frightened at her inability to act normally under the pressure of guilt. As she drives, she glances into her rear-view mirror. 
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN) 
The Patrolman is following in his automobile, keeping behind her at a matched speed. 
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN) 
She glances out at her surroundings. 
MARY'S POV - (DAWN) 
The Freeway ahead. 
EXT. MARY'S CAR - (DAWN) 
She suddenly turns off the highway. 
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN) 
She checks her mirror. 
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN) 
The Patrolman is no longer following, has not turned off after her. 
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN) 
She breathes a sigh of relief, thinks a moment, makes a quick decision. 
DISSOLVE: 
EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY) 
The big sign reads "California Charlie - Automobile Paradise." We see Mary's car drive onto the lot and stop. Mary gets out of the car, glances toward the lot office, turns her attention to the line of cars, notice the California licence plates on all of them. The CAR DEALER calls out from his office: 
CAR DEALER With you in a second! 
Mary nods, starts walking along the line of cars as if making a selection. Her eye is caught by the iron newspaper stand on the corner, just outside the lot. 
She stares at the papers, turns away, as if what she is fearing would have to be impossible, then, having to satisfy herself, goes to the stand, drops a dime in the iron slot, picks up a LOS ANGELES newspaper, starts back into the car lot as she glances worried at the front page. As she goes, we see, coming up the street toward the lot, the same PATROLMAN. He sees Mary, slows, swerves over to the opposite side of the street, stops by the curb. Mary, engrossed in the newspaper, and walking back ease the lot, does not see the Patrolman. 
The car dealer is out on the lot now, standing and waiting for Mary. As she approaches, lost in her newspaper, he smiles. 
CAR DEALER I'm in no mood for trouble! 
MARY (glancing up, thrown for a moment) What? 
CAR DEALER (cheerfully) There's an old saying, "First customer of the day is always the most trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no mood for it so I'm just going to treat you so fair and square you won't have one human reason to give me... 
MARY (interrupting) Can I trade in my car and take another? 
CAR DEALER You can do anything you've a mind to... and bein' a woman, you will! (chin-indicating her car) That yours? 
MARY Yes, it's... nothing wrong with it, I'm just... 
CAR DEALER Sick of the sight of it! (laughs) Well, suppose you look around for something that strikes your eyes and meanwhile I'll have my mechanic give yours the once over and... want some coffee? I was just about... 
MARY No. Thank you. I'm in... a hurry. I just want to make a change and start... 
She stops suddenly, almost with a gasp. She has seen the Patrolman. 
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY) 
He is staring over at her, his face dispassionate. 
CAR DEALER No, M'am. I was only about to say, I've sent my mechanic out to give your car a little test... that's all. 
MARY (handing him the ownership papers and the new bills) I'd like to be ready when he gets back. 
CAR DEALER Okay. If you'll come along... 
He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely, anxiously. She glances, sees: 
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY) 
He is still at the far curb. 
EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY) 
The Car Dealer goes into his office. Mary follows. 
THE PATROLMAN - (DAY) 
A second later, he starts his automobile, checks traffic, comes across the street, slowly, and drives onto the lot. He pauses a moment, then drives across the lot, passing the office, going on to the other exit, stops there as Mary's car is driven back onto the lot. 
The MECHANIC stops Mary's car, hops out, waves to the Patrolman. The Patrolman waves back, goes on a bit until he is behind Mary's car, stops again, looks over at the office. In a moment, Mary comes out, hurries across to her new car, gets in, starts the motor. The Mechanic yells: 
MECHANIC Hey! Miss? 
Mary pauses, turns, sees the Patrolman, then the Mechanic. Her face goes white. She doesn't know which man called her. Then the Mechanic waves, starts forward with her suitcase. 
MARY (as Mechanic reaches car) Just put it right in here, please... beside me. 
The Mechanic smiles, throws the suitcase in. Mary zooms off. As she drives out of lot we see the Mechanic, the Car Dealer and the Patrolman all looking after her. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE 
Mary is driving tensely. She checks the rear-view mirror, is more shocked than pleased when she sees... 
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR 
No sign of the Patrolman. 
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE 
She turns her face, looks out at the highway. 
ROUTE 99 - MARY'S POV 
It is heavy with traffic. 
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE 
Again she checks the mirror and although... 
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR 
There is still no sign of the Patrolman. 
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE 
She cannot relax or feel safe, cannot convince herself that nothing will come of the man's watching and suspicions. 
CAMERA IS CLOSE on Mary's face now, recording her anxiety, her fears. Her guilt shines bright in her eyes and she is a person unaccustomed to containing this much guilt in this realistic a situation. Suddenly, we hear the SOUND of the Used Car Dealer's laugh, hear it as clearly as Mary hears it in her imagination. The "imagined voice" we hear is actually the voice of the Car Dealer: 
CAR DEALER'S VOICE Heck, Officer, that was the first time I ever saw the Customer high- pressure the Salesman!  Somebody chasing her? 
PATROLMAN'S VOICE I better have a look at those papers, Charlie. 
CAR DEALER'S VOICE She look like a wrong-one to you? 
PATROLMAN'S VOICE Acted like one. 
Mary blinks, shakes her head, as if trying to shake away these voices of her imagination. She checks the rear-view mirror. 
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR 
Still no sight of the Patrolman. 
LOWERY'S VOICE After all, Cassidy, I told you... all that cash... I'm not taking the responsibility... Oh, for heaven's sake, a girl works for you for ten years, you trust her! All right, yes, you better come over. 
FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT 
EXT. THE ROAD AHEAD INT. MARY'S NEW CAR 
Fast cut back to Mary's face. Oncoming headlights throw a blinding light across her features. 
CASSIDY'S VOICE (undrunk, sharp with rage) Well I ain't about to kiss off forty thousand dollars! I'll get it back and if any of it's missin' I'll replace it with her fine soft flesh! I'll track her, never you doubt it! 
LOWERY'S VOICE Hold on, Cassidy... I still can't believe... it must be some kind of a mystery... I can't... 
CASSIDY'S VOICE You checked with the bank, no?  They never laid eyes on her, no?  You still trustin'? Hot creepers, she sat there while I dumped it out... hardly even looked at it, plannin' and... and even flirtin' with me...! 
A look of revulsion makes Mary close her eyes. 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD AGAIN 
Big drops of rain begin to appear. 
CLOSEUP - MARY 
She is becoming aware of the rain starting. 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 
The rain increasing and backlit by the oncoming headlights. 
CLOSEUP - MARY 
Mary starts the windshield wipers. 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 
The wipers are having a battle with the now torrential rain. 
CLOSEUP - MARY 
Peering through the blurred windshield. 
CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS 
slowing down in the flooding highway. 
CLOSEUP - MARY 
peering through the windshield. The oncoming lights are fewer. 
CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS 
almost coming to a slow turn. 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 
just blackness and rain. 
CLOSEUP - MARY 
peering. 
MARY'S VIEWPOINT 
An almost undiscernible light in the far distance, a neon sign blurred by the rain-sheeted windshield. 
MARY'S CAR 
She presses down, forces the car to move on through the flooded road. 
EXT. THE ROAD 
As we move closer, we see the neon sign more clearly and can faintly make out the large letters which read "Motel."  Mary stops the car, lowers the window slightly, looks out. We see the sign clearly now: "BATES MOTEL." Mary opens the car door and dashes out into the rain and up onto the porch of the motel office. 
EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT) 
Mary pauses on the porch. The lights are on within the office. She tries door, finds it open, goes into office. CAMERA FOLLOWS her into office. There is no one present. Mary goes to the desk, rings a small pushbell. There is no response. Mary rubs her forehead in weariness and frustration, goes back out onto the porch. She looks off in another direction, slightly behind the office, and sees... 
NORMAN You have something most girls never have. 
MARY I have? 
NORMAN There's no name for it... But it's something that, that puts a person at ease. 
MARY Thank you. Again. 
NORMAN (not really a question) You're not going to go out again and drive up to that diner, are you? 
MARY No. 
NORMAN Then will you do me a favor? (without waiting for her response) Will you have supper here?  I was just about to, myself... nothing more than some sandwiches and a lot of milk, but I'd like it if you'd come up to the house and... I don't set a fancy table but... the kitchen's awful homey. 
MARY I'd like to. 
NORMAN All right, you get your dresses hanging out and... change those wet shoes, and I'll come for you soon as it's ready... (starts out) ...with my trusty umbrella. (he laughs a small laugh, runs off) 
Mary closes the door, goes to suitcase, opens it, starts to take out a dress. Her handbag is next to the suitcase. She glances down into it, pauses, drops the dress, reaches into the handbag, takes out the money-filled envelope, stares at it, almost with regret, filled contemplates hiding it, decides to, starts looking for a reasonable hiding place. She looks about, at the closet, the drawers etc., realizes all such places are obvious. Catching sight of the newspaper in her bag, she hits on a solution. She opens the newspaper, places the envelope within it, lock-folds the paper again and then places it on the bedside table as if it were there for later reading. She considers this for a moment, accepts it, goes to her suitcase to start unpacking. 
Suddenly the quiet is shattered by the shrill, ugly sound of a woman's voice, raised in anger. 
WOMAN'S VOICE No! I tell you no! 
Mary walks slowly to the window, realizing that the terrible voice is coming from the house behind the cabins. CAMERA FOLLOWS her to window and once there we see the light is still on in the upstairs bedroom and the voice is coming from that room. The rain has stopped and the moon is out. 
WOMAN'S VOICE I won't have you bringing strange young girls in for supper... (an ugly, sneering note creeps into the voice) ...by candlelight, I suppose, in the cheap erotic fashion of young men with cheap, erotic minds! 
NORMAN'S VOICE Mother, please... 
WOMAN'S VOICE And then what? After supper, music? Whispers? 
NORMAN'S VOICE Mother, she's just a stranger... hungry, and the weather's bad... 
WOMAN'S VOICE (mimicking cruelly) Mother, she's just a stranger! (hard, cruel again) As if men don't desire strangers, as if... oh, I refuse to speak of disgusting things because they disgust me! You understand, Boy? 
WOMAN'S VOICE (pause) Go on, go tell her she'll not be appeasing her ugly appetite with my food... or my son! Or do I have to tell her, cause you don't have the guts? Huh, boy? You have the guts, boy? 
NORMAN'S VOICE (blurted cut fury and shame) Shut up! Shut up! 
There is the SOUND of a door closing in that room up there. Mary has stood by the window, listening with mounting distress and concern and sympathy. She turns her face away now, gazes sadly at the little empty room. 
In a moment there is the SOUND of the house's front door slamming shut. Mary turns, looks out the window. 
FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT - (NIGHT) 
We see Norman coming down the path, carrying a napkin-covered tray. 
INT. CABIN ONE - (NIGHT) 
Mary looks at him for a moment, then turns quickly, goes to the door, opens it and goes out onto the porch. 
EXT. THE MOTEL PORCH - (NIGHT) 
Mary pauses outside the door, is about to start forward when Norman comes round the building and walks along the porch, past the office, stopping only when he is close to her. He stares with painful embarrassment at the knowing look in her eye. 
MARY I've caused you some trouble. 
NORMAN Mother... (a hollow little laugh, an attempt at sardonic humor) ...what is the phrase... "she isn't herself today"... I think that's it. 
MARY (looking at the tray) You shouldn't have bothered. I really don't have that much of an appetite. 
Norman flinches, realizing she has heard his mother's reference to Mary's appetite. 
NORMAN I'm sorry. I wish... people could apologize for other people. 
MARY Don't worry about it. (a warm smile) But as long as you've made us supper, we may as well eat it. Huh? 
She begins to back into her room. Norman starts to follow, hesitates as he sees the total picture of an attractive young woman and a motel room. Bringing down the tray of food, in defiance of his mother's orders, is about the limit of his defiance for one day. He cannot go into Mary's room. 
NORMAN It might be nicer... warmer in the office. 
Without waiting for approval or disapproval, he turns, hurries to the office. Mary looks after him, her face showing amused sympathy, then follows. 
INT. THE MOTEL OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
NORMAN Oh I do... but I say I don't. (Laughs boyishly) 
MARY (Staring at him, shaking her head softly.) If anyone ever spoke to me, the way I heard... The way she spoke to you, I don't think I could ever laugh again. 
NORMAN (Controlled resentment) Sometimes when she talks that way to me I'd like to... curse her out and leave her forever! (A rueful smile) Or at least, defy her. (A pause, a hopeless shrug) But I couldn't. She's ill. 
MARY She sounded strong... 
NORMAN I mean... ill. (A pause) She had to raise me all by herself after my dad died... I was only five... and it must have been a strain. Oh, she didn't have to go out to work or anything, Dad left us with a little something... anyway, a few years ago... Mother met a man. He talked her into building this motel... We could have talked her into anything... and when.  Well... It was just too much for her when he died, too... And the way he died... Oh, it's nothing to talk about when you're eating. (Pauses, smiles) Anyway, it was too much of a loss for my mother... she had nothing left. 
MARY (Critically) Except you. 
NORMAN A son is a poor substitute for a lover. (Turns away as if in distaste of the word) 
MARY Why don't you go away? 
NORMAN To a private island, like you? 
MARY No, not like me. 
NORMAN It's too late for me. And besides... who'd look after her? She'd be alone up there, the fire would go out... damp and cold, like a grave. When you love someone, you don't do that to them, even if you hate them. Oh, I don't hate her.  I hate... what she's become. I hate... the illness. 
MARY (Slowly, carefully) Wouldn't it be better if you put her in... someplace... 
She hesitates. Norman turns, slowly, looking at her with a striking coldness. 
NORMAN An Institution? A madhouse?  People always call a madhouse "someplace." (Mimicing coldly) Put her in Someplace! 
MARY I'm sorry... I didn't mean it to sound uncaring... 
NORMAN (The coldness turning to tight fury) What do you mean about caring?  Have you ever seen one of those places? Inside? Laughing and tears and cruel eyes studying you... and my mother there?  Why? has she harmed you? She's as harmless as... one of these stuffed birds. 
MARY I am sorry. I only felt... it seemed she was harming you. I meant... 
NORMAN (High fury now) Well? You meant well?  People always mean well, they cluck their thick tongues and shake their heads and suggest so very delicately that... 
The fury suddenly dies, abruptly and completely, and he sinks back into his chair. There is a brief silence. 
Mary watches the troubled man, is almost physically pained by his anguish. 
NORMAN (Quietly) I've suggested it myself. But I hate to even think such a thing.  She needs me... and it isn't... (Looks up with a childlike pleading in his eyes) ...it isn't as if she were a maniac, a raving thing... it's just that... sometimes she goes a little mad. We all go a little mad sometimes. Haven't you? 
MARY (After a long thoughtful pause) Yes, and just one time can be enough. (Rises) Thank you. 
NORMAN (Cheerfully, correcting) Thank you, Norman. 
MARY Norman. 
NORMAN You're not going to... to your room already? 
MARY I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to Phoenix. 
NORMAN Phoenix? 
MARY I stepped into a private trap back there -- and I want to go back and... try to pull myself out. (Looking close at Norman) Before it's too late for me, too. 
NORMAN (Looking at her) Why don't you stay a little while, just for talking. 
MARY I'd like to, but... 
NORMAN Alright. I'll see you in the morning. I'll bring you breakfast.  What time will you... 
MARY Very early. Dawn. 
NORMAN Alright, Miss... (He has forgotten her name) 
MARY Crane. 
NORMAN That's it. (He frowns, as if bothered by not being able to match the name to the memory of the name in the registration book) 
MARY Good night. 
She goes out of the parlor. We see her, from Norman's viewpoint, as she crosses the small office, goes out into the night. Norman turns and looks at the table, and we see his face now. It is bright with that drunken-like look of determination and encouragement and like resolve. He starts to clean up the table, pauses as he hears the closing of Mary's door in the cabin next door. 
He holds still, listens. He goes into the office and looks at the book. 
Lila starts to walk toward the counter, never taking her eyes off Bob. As she approaches, she asks quietly: 
LILA Sam? 
SUMMERFIELD You want to see Sam? 
LILA Sam Loomis. 
SUMMERFIELD (yelling toward back room) Sam! Lady wants to see you! 
Lila looks to the back room. The woman customer goes on worriedly examining the fine print of the insecticide can. Sam comes to the door of his room, pauses, looks at Lila a moment, starts toward her, his expression indicating that he does not know her. Lila studies him with a quiet, worried expression. 
SAM Yes? 
LILA May I talk to you? 
SAM (a bit mystified) Sure... 
Lila glances at the customer and the clerk, turns, starts toward the front of the store. Sam holds a moment, then follows. As he reaches her, she turns, her eyes studying him intently as she says: 
LILA I'm Mary's sister. 
SAM Lila. 
LILA (quickly) Is Mary here? 
Sam is mystified, and is also aware of the worried, hostile expression on Lila's face. He studies her for a quiet moment. Behind them is a display of various size carving knives. 
SAM Is something wrong? 
LILA I want to know if my sister is here. 
SAM Here? 
LILA With you. 
SAM Where? 
LILA I don't know where. In your store, somewhere in your town... anywhere. 
SAM What's the matter? 
LILA Don't you know? 
As Sam is about to speak, the Woman Customer comes sailing past, speaking as she goes and wearing a satisfied smile. 
WOMAN CUSTOMER All I can do is hope if it isn't painless, it's quick! 
She speaks "quick" with a kind of delicious bite, nods happily, goes on out of the store. Sam is now staring apprehensively at Lila. 
SAM What should I know? 
LILA To begin with, where Mary is. Do you? 
SAM No. I take it you don't either? (As Lila shakes her head) How long? 
LILA Last Friday. She left work, and home... I was in Tucson over the weekend... I haven't heard from her, not even a phone call. 
SAM And you thought she'd come up here, to me? If she had, what reason would she have for not calling you? 
LILA A good reason, I suppose. 
SAM (Slightly exasperated) Well what do you think, we eloped or something? Or we're living in sin and... 
LILA Mr. Loomis, you're so busy being defensive that you haven't even reacted to the most serious fact of all. Mary is missing. 
SAM I was getting to that! 
LILA What do you know about it? 
SAM Nothing! You're putting me on the defensive. 
LILA Look, if you two are in this thing together, I don't care, it's none of my business... But I want to see Mary. I want her to tell me she's all right and it's none of my business. Then I'll go back to Phoenix and... 
She stops, the anxiety and fear building up in her, her eyes beginning to fill with worried tears. Sam studies her for a moment, then turns and calls: 
ARBOGAST With a little checking, I could get to believe you. 
LILA (anxiously) I don't care if you do or... I want to see Mary... before she gets in any deeper... 
SAM Did you check in Phoenix... hospitals... maybe she had an accident... a hold-up... 
ARBOGAST She was seen leaving town in her car. Seen by her very victims, I might add. 
SAM (after a moment) I don't believe it. (to Lila, slowly) Do you? 
LILA (a thoughtful pause) Yes... I just... did. The moment they told me... 
SAM You might have doubted for say five minutes or so, Sister. 
Lila turns from Sam, a flush of guilt and regret in her face. Arbogast looks at her, quiet sympathetically. 
ARBOGAST We're always quickest to doubt people who have a record for being honest. I think she's here, Miss Crane. Where there's a boyfriend... (Trails off, smiles encouragingly) She won't be back there among the nuts and bolts... but she'll be in this town... somewhere. I'll find her. 
He nods, takes down the closed-for-lunch sign, sails it to the counter, opens door, goes out into the street. 
After a quiet moment: 
LILA I just listened... and believed everything they told me. 'She stole the money.' 'We don't want to get her in trouble.' 'No don't bring the police in'... 
SAM It was her boss' idea not to report it to the police? 
LILA No. The man whose money she... he talked so loud and fast, and I... I should've called the police. 
SAM He must have had a darn good reason for wanting them kept out of it... All that cash... 
LILA I ought to call the police right now! 
SAM No. 
LILA Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money? 
SAM How could I go away? I'm in debt up to my... (Smiles at the incongruity of his reply, then goes serious) If she did steal that money...  It's hard to believe she did because it's hard to see why she would. Unless she had some wild idea that it would help me... us... 
LILA She haven't even called you? 
SAM I didn't see her... and I didn't hear from her! Believe that! 
LILA I need to... I need to believe something. This is the first time I've ever come up against anything I couldn't... understand. 
SAM You've led a charmed life. 
LILA No. I just think... anything can be explained. But Mary, doing a thing like this... I don't know how to handle... 
SAM Maybe we can handle it together. (He smiles encouragingly) 
LILA (A rueful shrug) I came flying up here expecting to get some explanation... for all I know, she may be trying to get in touch with me, at home. I'd better go home. 
SAM (A thoughtful pause) I think she'll contact me if she contacts anybody. Why don't you stay here. When she shows up... or calls... be here. 
LILA (A long study, her suspicion of him evaporating) You want me to stay here? 
SAM She'll need both of us. 
LILA (considers, then:) Where... can I stay? 
SAM (brightly) First rate hotel, fifty yards up the street. Come on. (as he reaches for the closed-for-lunch sign) After we check you in we'll go to the drugstore and get you a sandwich. Then we'll come back here... and wait. 
He hangs the sign on the door, ushers Lila out, closes door behind him. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET - (DAY) 
They emerge from the store and walk along to the hotel.  As they enter, Arbogast is in the act of taking over a white Ford sedan from a rental car man. They glance at him and he returns a cynical look. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. HOTEL - (DAY) 
Outside another hotel we see Arbogast alight from the white car and go into new hotel. 
INT. MOTEL OFFICE - (TWILIGHT) 
Norman switches on the overhead light, starts for the linen closet, suddenly pauses, turns, studies Arbogast, who has remained standing by the door. 
NORMAN You out to buy a motel? 
ARBOGAST No. 
NORMAN Oh. I thought... you said you'd been to so many in two days...  What was it you wanted to ask? 
ARBOGAST I'm looking for a missing person. (takes out and opens wallet and extends it as he speaks) My name's Arbogast, private investigator... (takes back wallet when Norman doesn't look at it) Trying to trace a young girl who's been missing almost a week. From Phoenix. (A look at Norman's frightened expression) It's a private matter... family wants to forgive her... (smiles) She isn't in trouble. 
NORMAN (forcing a smile) I didn't think the police went searching for people who weren't in trouble. 
ARBOGAST I'm not the police. 
NORMAN Oh. 
He waits a moment, then opens closet, starts counting out sheets and pillow cases, keeps his back to Arbogast. 
Arbogast takes a photograph out of his pocket, talks as he crosses to Norman. 
ARBOGAST We have reason to believe she came this way... might have stopped in this area... (extends photograph, which Norman doesn't glance at) Did she stop here? 
NORMAN No. No one has stopped here in weeks... 
ARBOGAST Mind looking at the picture before committing yourself? 
NORMAN Committing myself to what? You sure talk like a Policeman. 
ARBOGAST Look at the picture. Please. 
Norman glances, briefly, turns away, lifts sheets and pillow cases off the shelf holds them close, almost protectively. 
NORMAN No. At least I don't recall. 
ARBOGAST She might have used an alias. Mary Crane's the real name, but she might've registered... 
NORMAN (interrupting) I don't even bother with guests registering any more... I mean, little by little, you drop the formalities. (more relaxed, because Arbogast is listening with a pleasant smile) I shouldn't even bother to change the linen. I guess habits die hard. Which reminds me... 
He goes to the wall, flips a light switch. 
NORMAN The vacancy sign. Just in case. 
We had a couple the other night, said if the sign hasn't been on they'd have thought this was an old deserted mining town or something. 
ARBOGAST Now there's a couple even remarking about your sign, and see how easily you forgot them? 
NORMAN What? 
ARBOGAST You thought no one has stopped here in weeks. Now, try to remember if this girl... 
ARBOGAST (A pause, a study) Maybe she even signed the register... because habits die hard. Let's check it, huh? 
Norman says nothing. Arbogast goes to the desk, pulls the registry book around, flips back a page or two. 
Norman simply stares at the man. Arbogast hums faintly, pleasantly, as he examines the pages. Then: 
ARBOGAST Yes sir! Marie Samuels.  Interesting alias. 
He takes a slip of paper out of his pocket, lays it beside the signature in the registry book, all the while nodding and smiling nicely, as if this discovery will make Norman as happy as it is making him. 
ARBOGAST Don't know where she got "Marie," but "Samuels" figures. Her boy friend's name is Sam. (Turns to Norman, the smile gone) Was she in disguise? Or do you want to check the picture again? 
NORMAN I didn't lie to you. I just have trouble keeping track of... time. 
Arbogast has reached him, the picture extended. Norman looks dutifully at it. 
NORMAN It was raining and her hair didn't look like that... damped out, I guess. 
ARBOGAST Tell me all about her. 
NORMAN She arrived kind of late, wet and hungry and she was very tired and went right to bed and left early. 
ARBOGAST How early? 
NORMAN My mother. 
Arbogast turns, gazes seriously at him. 
NORMAN She's... ill. Confined to her room. It's practically living alone. 
ARBOGAST (after a pause) If this girl Mary Crane were here, you'd have no reason to hide her would you? 
NORMAN Of course not. 
ARBOGAST If she paid you well? 
NORMAN Now, look...! 
ARBOGAST Or if she had you say... gallantly protecting her... you wouldn't be fooled... you'd know she was just using you. Wouldn't you? 
NORMAN I'm not a fool! And I'm not capable of being fooled! Not even by women! 
ARBOGAST I didn't mean that as a slur on your manhood. I'm sorry. 
NORMAN (disturbed now) That's all right. maybe she could have fooled me.  But... (a rueful smile) She didn't fool my mother. 
ARBOGAST Your mother met her? (quickly) Can I talk to your mother? 
NORMAN No. I told you, she's confined... 
ARBOGAST Just for a moment. She might have picked up a hint you'd miss. 
ARBOGAST Sick old women are sharp. Come on, I won't disturb... 
NORMAN No! Just no!  I have one of those breaking points like any other man, believe it or not, and I'm near it. There's just so much pushing I can take and I think... 
ARBOGAST All right! (starts away, toward his car, pauses) Might save me a lot of leg-work if I could just talk to your mother.  But I'd need a warrant for that, won't I? 
Norman does not respond. Arbogast gets in his car, starts the motor. Norman looks up, studies the man's face, his own face showing apprehension. Arbogast backs the car around very slowly, his gaze divided between the old house and the lighted window of Cabin Two. As he turns the car out, his headlights light up the porch. 
Norman stands, watching him drive away. 
EXT. PHONE BOOTH - (NIGHT) 
The car pulls up and Arbogast gets out of car, leaving motor running. As he starts to walk across the highway, CAMERA PULLS AWAY and we 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HIGHWAY WITH TELEPHONE BOOTH - (NIGHT) 
Arbogast gets to the phone booth, enters. CAMERA STARTS FORWARD, and we see Arbogast remove a small notebook from his pocket, check on a number, drop a dime in the slot and dial this number. As we reach phone booth, 
CUT TO: 
ARBOGAST (into phone) Miss Crane, please. (listens) She leave a number? (listens) Thanks. (hangs up, dials again, waits) Lila there, Mr. Loomis? Arbogast. (waits) Lila? Look, this isn't much, but it might make you feel a little better. Mary was up here. Spent last Saturday night at Bates'  Motel, out here on the old highway. (listens) Young fellow runs it, said Mary spent the night, left, period! (listens) I did question him, believe me. I think I got all there was to get. Just have to try to pick up the scent from here. (listens) Well... maybe that's because I don't feel entirely satisfied.  He's got a sick old mother, confined type, and I think she saw Mary and talked to her. Shame, too... confined old women love to talk to strangers. (listens) I was, but I think I'll go back to the motel, first. (listens) No, you stay put, Lila. With Loomis. I should be back in an hour. (listens) All right. And Lila... You'll be happy to know what I think. I think our friend Sam Loomis didn't even know Mary was here. (smiles) See you in an hour. Or less. 
He hangs up, gets out of the phone booth. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT) 
A distant view of the House and Motel. There is a light on in the house. There is also a light on in Norman's office. We see Norman emerge from his office and move along the porch toward the distant cabins. He carries sheets on his arm. He goes into the last cabin and switches the light on. Into the foreground the hood of the white Ford enters the scene and stops. Arbogast gets out. He goes over to the Motel office. 
EXT. MOTEL OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
Arbogast goes in. 
INT. OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
Arbogast looks around the empty office and calls. 
ARBOGAST Bates! 
He goes over to the door to the parlor and enters. He looks around the bird-ridden room. He stops short as he sees: 
C.U. - THE OLD SAFE IN THE CORNER 
C.U. - ARBOGAST 
SAM Hundreds! Which one is your pet? 
LILA Whenever I start contemplating the panic button, your back straightens up and your eyes get that God-looks- out-for-everybody look and... I feel better. 
SAM I feel better when you feel better. 
LILA (a pause - then she rises) Where's the old highway? 
SAM You want to run out there, bust in on Arbogast and the sick old lady, shake her up and maybe spoil everything Arbogast's been building for the last three hours. 
LILA Yes. 
SAM That wouldn't be a wise thing to do. 
LILA Patience doesn't run in our family. Sam, I'm going out there! 
SAM Arbogast said... 
LILA An hour! Or less! 
Sam stares at her, frowns in concern over her very real anxiety, goes to the phone, dials operator. 
SAM (into phone) Got the number of the motel out on the old highway? Bates, I think. (waits) 
LILA Sam! Why call when we can go? 
SAM And maybe pass Arbogast on the road? (into phone) Thanks. 
He presses down the receiver, releases it, dials Bates' 
Motel. The faint other-end ringing tones can be heard, repeatedly, annoyingly. He waits. 
SAM (to Lila) Probably on his way back right now. 
LILA Sam, I'm going. 
SAM (hangs up and picks up his jacket) You'll never find it. 
He starts for the door. Lila follows after him into the store. 
INT. STORE 
He pauses halfway down, turns, puts his hands on her arms. 
SAM Stay here. 
LILA Why can't I go out there with you? 
SAM (looks at her) I don't know... (he collects himself) One of us has to be here in case Arbogast's on the way. 
LILA (nervously) Just wait here? 
SAM (a warm smile) Contemplate your... panic button. 
He hurries down to the street door and out. CAMERA HOLDS on Lila as she stares after Sam. As she stands alone in the darkened store, all the hardware seems to take on sinister shapes. 
C.U. 
Among some bathroom fittings a nozzle from a shower falls onto the floor. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Lila turns and picks if from the floor and puts it back in its place. She turns and again looks to the deserted street with a touch of anxiety. She gives a slight unconscious shiver. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. THE SWAMP - (NIGHT) 
Tall and lonely still against the moonlight, the figure of Norman, silhouetted. He doesn't move, merely stands there at the edge of the swamp, staring down at the now calm and quiet face of it. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE MOTEL AND HOUSE - (NIGHT) 
All light are out, except the light in Norman's mother's room. And her figure can be seen sitting in the window, relaxed in a high-back chair, her face turned into the room. After a second, we hear the SOUND OF A MOTOR, and then Sam's small pick-up truck swings into the driveway. 
MRS. CHAMBERS You didn't! (a cross look up at the bell) It's tinkerbell. (a quick smile at Lila) Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the night. (to Sam) Well come on in, at least! 
As she opens the door wide, 
CUT TO: 
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL OF SHERIFF'S HOUSE - (NIGHT) 
Fat roses splatter the wallpaper. The stairs are carpeted. The lighting is bright. 
There is a perfectly fitting wall phone by the parlor arch. Mrs. Chambers goes to the stairway, yells up. 
MRS. CHAMBERS Albert! (a tiny wait, a smile as Sam and Lila enter) Al Chambers! 
Sam is about to close the door behind him. Mrs. Chambers motions for him not to, scurries across the hall, leans outside, presses the doorbell. The RING within the house is even more shattering. She closes the door, starts to the stairway, pauses as the SOUNDS of movement above COME OVER SHOT. 
MRS. CHAMBERS Customers! 
SHERIFF CHAMBERS comes down the stairs, in a bathrobe which matches his wife's. He is a tall, narrow man with a face originally destined for Mount Rushmore. He nods at Sam, looks at him with wide-awake eyes and a no-nonsense concern. 
SAM We have a problem. 
MRS. CHAMBERS (to Lila) Let's go out back and have some coca while the men are talking. 
LILA No, thank you. It's my problem, too. 
SAM I don't know where to start... (a look at Lila) Except at the beginning. 
LILA Yes. 
SAM (to Sheriff) This is Lila Crane, from Phoenix. She's been here for a few days, looking for her sister. There's a private detective helping... and, well, we got a call tonight, from this detective, saying he'd traced Mary... 
MRS. CHAMBERS Mary is Lila's sister? 
SAM Yes. He traced her to that motel, out on the old highway... 
MRS. CHAMBERS (to the Sheriff) Bates' Motel. (to Lila) He has a mind like a mechanical brain and the more information you feed it... Go on, Sam. 
SAM He traced her there and called us to say he was going to question Mrs. Bates... 
MRS. CHAMBERS (a pleasant shock) Norman took a wife? 
SAM No. An old woman, his mother. (to Sheriff, quickly) That was early this evening. And we haven't seen or heard from him since. I went out to the motel, just got back. No one was in the office, and... 
LILA (interrupting, anxiously) Will you help us? I think something's wrong out there! 
SHERIFF (after a considerate pause) Now. Your sister is missing how long? 
LILA She left Phoenix a week ago yesterday. And no trace until... 
SHERIFF How'd you and this detective come to trace her to Fairvale? 
SAM They thought she'd be coming to me. 
SHERIFF Left Phoenix under her own steam? 
LILA Yes. 
SHERIFF (a pause) She ain't missing so much as she's run away. 
SAM Yes. 
SHERIFF From what? 
LILA (a look at sam, then:) She stole some money. 
SHERIFF A lot? 
LILA Forty thousand dollars. 
SHERIFF And the police haven't been able to... 
SAM (interrupting) Everyone concerned thought... if they could get her to give back the money... they could avoid involving her with the police. 
SHERIFF Explains the private detective. He traced her to the Bates place.  What'd he exactly say when he called you? 
MRS. CHAMBERS (hopefully, happily) Maybe you saw Mary! 
SAM I'd know the difference between Mary and an old woman. 
SHERIFF Now wait a minute, Sam. You sure you saw an old woman? 
SAM Yes! In the house behind the motel. I pounded and called but she... just ignored me. 
SHERIFF And you want to tell me you saw Norman Bates' mother. 
LILA It must've been. Arbogast said so, too... and he said the young man wouldn't let him see her because she was ill! 
The Sheriff stares at both of them, and when he finally speaks there is an almost inaudible tone or irony in his voice. 
SHERIFF Well, if the woman up there is Mrs. Bates... who's that woman buried out at Greenlawn Cemetery? 
QUICK CUT TO: 
INT. NORMAN'S PARLOR BEHIND OFFICE - (NIGHT) 
Norman sits in the dim, one-lamp light, the phone next to him, his hand still near it as if he had not been able to move his hand after hanging up. He is staring at the shrike- like bird which is perched on the lamp shade. Decision and resolution are beginning to show in his face. Suddenly he rises, starts quickly out of the room, tries to switch off the lamp as he goes and in so doing succeeds only in knocking the bird off the shade. 
He watches it fall, does not try to catch it. It hits the floor with a thud and sawdust spills out. He stares sadly at it, for a moment, then tends down, scoops up the sawdust, tries to press it into the split seam, picks up the bird, puts it in a drawer. Then he puts out the lamp, goes out, crosses the darkened office and goes outside. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MOTEL AND HOUSE - (NIGHT) 
Norman comes off the porch, walks to the path and directly up to the house, opens the door and goes in. 
CUT TO: 
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY AND STAIRWAY - (NIGHT) 
SHOOTING UP THE STAIRS 
Norman goes up, pauses one moment outside his mother's door, then opens it and goes in, leaving the door open. 
For a moment we hear only Norman's low, quiet voice, his words indistinguishable. Then we hear the cold shot of his mother's derisive laughter. 
MOTHER'S VOICE I am sorry, boy, but you do manage to look ludicrous when you give me orders! 
NORMAN'S VOICE Please, mother... 
MOTHER'S VOICE (Sharp, laughter all gone) No! I will not hide in the fruit cellar! (A shrill laugh) Think I'm fruity, huh? (Hard, cold again) I'm staying right here!  This is my room and no one will drag me out of it... least of all my big bold son! 
NORMAN'S VOICE (Rising now, anxiously) They'll come now, Mother. He came after the girl and now someone will come after him! How long do you think you can go on... Mother, please, just for a few days, just so they won't find you! 
MOTHER'S VOICE (Mimicking) Just for a few days... (Furious) In that dank fruit cellar? No!  You hid me there once, boy, and you won't do it again! Not ever again!  Now get out! (A pause, quiet) I told you to get out, boy! (A longer pause) Norman! What do you think you're going to do? Don't you touch me! Don't! Norman! (A pause, then cajolingly) All right, son, put me down and I'll go. I'll go on my own two feet. I can go on my own two feet, can't I? 
During all this the CAMERA has been slowly creeping up the stairs. It does not stop at the top however, but continues on the same high angle that we had in Scene 57. 
She starts to laugh, a terrible sound like an obscene melody. 
NORMAN'S VOICE I'll carry you, mother. 
Norman comes out of the room, his mother held in his arms, her head leaning against his shoulder. He carries her down the stairs, along the lower landing to the cellar stairs, and then down those stairs to the basement. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. FAIRVALE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH - (MORNING) 
An overcast morning, but a sunny-faced crowd. The service is just over, there is contentment, and peace, and just a little I-went-to-church-smugness in the faces of the churchgoers as they come out of the chapel, and spread their separate ways away. 
Amongst the crowd, waiting and searching the faces, are Sam and Lila. In their expressions there is no peace, no contentment. CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE. They are not speaking. Lila looks as if she has had no sleep. 
Suddenly, Sam becomes alert, takes Lila's arm, starts toward the church. 
CAMERA MOVES WITH THEM, stops as they approach Sheriff and Mrs. Chambers. The Sheriff stares rather sympathetically at Lila. Mrs. Chambers smiles nicely. 
SAM We thought, if you didn't mind, we'd go out to the motel with you. 
MRS. CHAMBERS He's already been. 
SHERIFF Went out before service. 
Lila goes to the door. He holds it open and she goes out. 
EXT. THE MOTEL - (DAY) 
Sam closes the door, joins Lila, takes her hand. 
Together they walk along the porch in the direction of Cabin One. CAMERA FOLLOWS. They pause before the door of Cabin One. Sam motions Lila to wait, to hold still, then goes on to the office, opens the door, calls in: 
SAM Bates? 
He waits, there is no response. He goes in and in a moment comes back out, closes the door, goes to Lila. 
She has already opened the door of Cabin One and has started to enter. 
INT. CABIN ONE - (DAY) 
The blinds are closed and the room is almost night-dark. 
Sam comes in after Lila, closes the door behind him. 
For a moment they just gaze at the room, as if willing it to tell them some satisfactory story. 
Neither speaks. Then, in dark silence, they begin to search, going methodically and thoroughly through all drawers, the closet, the desk, searching under the bed and in dark corners, not knowing what they expect to find and yet expecting to find some thing. Lila opens the bathroom door, looks in. The windowless room is very dark. She switches on the light, goes in. Sam moves toward the bathroom, is about to follow her in when he notices which room it is and automatically catches himself up, backs out. 
SAM Sorry. 
LILA Hospital clean. 
SAM What? 
LILA The bathroom. Look at how clean it is. The one in our cabin is clean... but this is clean! 
Sam goes in, glances around, nods. Lila goes through the medicine cabinet, finds nothing but a glass and two tiny tabs of soap. Sam leans against the door-jamb, looks at the tub, the shower pipe above it. He continues to stare, more interested suddenly, as if bothered by some off-key evidence he can't put his finger on. Then he looks at the shower curtain rod. 
And realizes there is no shower curtain. He frowns, is about to say something when Lila, who has been momentarily out of shot, interrupts. 
Sam turns, CAMERA TURNS, and we see Lila is standing above the toilet bowl, a tiny piece of wet paper stuck to the tip of her right index finger. 
SAM What is it? 
LILA It didn't get washed down. It's figuring... the kind you tear up and get rid of. (Extending her finger toward Sam) Some figure has been added to or subtracted from... forty thousand. 
Sam lifts the piece of paper off her finger, studies it, takes out his wallet, presses the wet scrap to his driver's license shield, puts it back in the wallet and puts the wallet away. 
LILA That's proof Mary was here!  It would be too wild a coincidence for somebody else to... 
SAM (Reminding) Bates never denied Mary was here. 
LILA (Reminded) Yes. (A thought) But maybe this proves that Bates found out about the money. 
SAM Do we simply ask him where he's hidden it? 
LILA Sam, that old woman, whoever she is. I think she told Arbogast something! And I want her to tell us the same thing! 
She starts out of the bathroom. Sam takes hold of her arm, stops her. 
SAM You can't go up there. 
LILA Why not? 
SAM Bates. 
CAMERA STARTS TO PAN AWAY from them, moves slowly over the room, very slowly. 
LILA'S VOICE (O.S.) Let's find him. One of us can keep him occupied while the other gets to the woman. 
SAM'S VOICE (O.S.) You won't be able to hold him still if he doesn't want to be held. And I don't like you going into that house alone, Lila. 
CAMERA HAS PANNED clear across to the opposite wall now, and is moving up closer and closer to the tiny-flowered wall paper, finally closing in on one small rosebud. 
LILA'S VOICE (O.S.) I can handle a sick old woman. 
Now we see that the rosebud has been cut out, that this is the reverse side of the hole Norman peeped through to watch Mary. And we see the pupil of Norman's eye now. 
SAM'S VOICE (O.S.) All right. I'll find Bates and keep him occupied. 
Lila goes to the chair, touches it. The touch disturbs the figure. It starts to turn, slowly, stiffly, a clock-wise movement. Lila looks at it in horror. It is the body of a woman long dead. The skin is dry and pulled away from the mouth and the teeth are revealed as in the skeleton's smile. The eyes are gone from their sockets, the bridge of the nose has collapsed, the hair is dry and wild, the cheeks are sunken, the leathery-brown skin is powdered and rouged and flaky. The body is dressed in a high-neck, clean, well-pressed dress, obviously recently laundered and hand-ironed. 
The movement of this stuffed, ill-preserved cadaver, turning as if in response to Lila's call and touch, is actually graceful, ballet-like, and the effect is terrible and obscene. 
Lila gazes for one flicker of a deathly moment, then begins to scream, a high, piercing, dreadful scream. 
And Lila's scream is joined by another scream, a more dreadful, horrifying scream which comes from the door behind her. 
NORMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) (screaming) Ayeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Am Norma Bates! 
Lila turns. 
NORMAN 
His face is contorted. He wears a wild wig, a mockery of a woman's hair. He is dressed in a high-neck dress which is similar to that worn by the corpse of his mother. His hand is raised high, poised to strike at Lila. There is a long breadknife in it. 
LILA 
Close on her face. She is dumb-struck. Her eyes are screaming. 
BACK TO NORMAN 
As he is about to start forward, a man's hand reaches in from the doorway behind, grabs Norman's wrist. Sam comes through the door, still holding tight to the wrist, pulling back the arm and at the same time throwing himself at Norman, football tackle style. 
SERIES OF CUTS - THE FIGHT 
Norman and Sam, struggling. The wild fury in Norman's face, the mad noise of his screams and vile curses. The terrified, fight-to-the-death look of Sam. The still, staring Lila. 
MRS. BATES 
A close of her face, She appears to be watching and enjoying the fight. Over the shot, the SOUNDS of the struggle, the screams of Norman. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. COURTHOUSE AT READING - (NIGHT) 
There are many people gathered about the steps, the curious and the concerned and the morbid. At the curb, a couple of newspaper cars, two or three police cars, and a mobile unit truck from the local television outlet. There is noise, and chattering as questions are asked and answers given, and the sounds of traffic, and of the television equipment being moved into the courthouse, for on-the-scene reporting, and the stern voices of policemen trying to keep people back. The scene has a bright glare about it, that quality of sudden light thrown on a fearful darkness. 
CLOSER ANGLE ON STEPS OF COURTHOUSE 
A POLICEMAN trying to make way for the television men, muttering "keep back," etc., to the spectators. A TELEVISION MAN, carrying a piece of equipment goes through door, and CAMERA FOLLOWS him into the courthouse vestibule. 
Here, too, there is a crowd, composed of Policemen, Reporters, Television Men. The Television Men we have been following stops beside a Policeman. 
TELEVISION MAN (Indicating the front door he has just come in through) You think they'll take him out that way? 
POLICEMAN (Looking at waiting crowd, shrugging) Probably have to. (A rueful smile) Besides, the taxpayers hate it when something gets slipped out the back door on them! 
Over this exchange, the buzz of other voices, the movement of men. CAMERA MOVES ON, down the corridor, gets to the door of the office of the Chief of Police just as a young fellow with a carton box filled with paper containers of sent-out- for coffee reaches this door. CAMERA HOLDS as the COFFEE BOY pauses a moment, then goes into the room. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE - (NIGHT) 
Lila is seated in a chair, Sam standing close by. A bit apart from them, we see Sheriff Chambers, in quiet conference with the CHIEF OF POLICE, the COUNTY SHERIFF, the DISTRICT ATTORNEY. 
The Coffee Boy stands in the doorway. Sam goes to him, takes a container of coffee from the box, carries it to Lila, checking the notation on the lid as he goes. 
MED. CLOSE ON SAM AND LILA 
SAM (quietly) It's regular. Okay? 
LILA (ruefully) I could stand something regular. 
Sam smiles encouragingly, hands her the coffee. Sheriff Chambers ENTERS SHOT, gives Sam a container of coffee he has brought for him. Sam takes it, nods a thank you. 
For a moment no one speaks. Lila looks badly shaken, Sam disheveled, but contained. 
CHAMBERS You two can go on home if you like. (a sympathetic look at Lila) Making that statement was enough for one night. 
SAM (to Lila) Want to? 
LILA No. I'm all right. I'll feel better when all this is explained... if it can be. 
Sam looks a question at Sheriff Chambers. Chambers shrugs doubtfully. 
