P U R P L E  R A I N 
Screenplay by Albert Magnoli 
Formerly Dreams by William Blinn 
Scanned & Edited by lovesexy (lovesexy@umich.edu) 
Cyberpublished by P.L.T.T. (pltt@umich.edu) 
(1) Black Screen 
SOUND under: MUSIC building in INTENSITY as-- 
PRINCE (over) Dearly belov`ed, We are gathered here today To get through this thing called life. Electric word life, It means forever and that's a mighty long time. But I'm here to tell you that there's something else -- The afterworld. 
Then huge CU of EYES opening, gazing into mirror, HAND applying makeup, sudden BLACKNESS, then-- 
PRINCE (con't) That's right...a world of never-ending happiness, You can always see the sun -- Day or night. 
BURN IN MAIN TITLE:    PURPLE RAIN 
PRINCE (con't) So when you call up that shrink in Beverly Hills, You know the one -- Doctor Everything'll Be Alright-- Instead of asking him how much of your mind is left, Ask him how much of your time, `Cause in this life, Things are much harder than in the afterworld, In this life, You're on your own. 
Now,  pulsating COLOR -- FLASHES of hot, white LIGHT... 
PRINCE (con't) And if de-elevator tries to bring you down, Go crazy, punch a higher floor. 
and the BEAT provocative now, relentless, BUILDING with fierce intent to-- 
(2)  INT. CLUB (1ST AVE.  ST.  BAR) -- NIGHT 
The MECCA!  The last stop for a band before national fame. 
The HUGE cavernous HALL is PACKED! PEOPLE are DANCING like MAD! VIDEO SCREENS with WILD GRAPHICS hang suspended from the ceilings. Beautiful WAITRESSES criss-cross the floor in a frenzy. 
PRINCE is CENTER-STAGE -- LIPS caressing the mike, black, lustrous hair shining, eyes dancing -- SINGING "Let's Get Crazy" as the CROWD pulsates beneath the LASER  LIGHTS. 
The MUSIC  continues as we ... 
CUT TO: 
(3) EXT.  STREETS #1 -- NIGHT 
A TAXI pulls UP with a SCREECH.  VANITY slouches in the backseat.  Black  boots, black skin-tight pants, and a mane of thick, black hair presents a beautiful and imposing  figure. Her eyes are large and dark -- her look open and ripe.  She knows what she's got, and doesn't make any excuses for it -- but the fact is she's scared as hell, possessing a  vulnerability that surprises her by its suddenness.  An expensive gold chain is fastened on one boot. 
She scrounges through her bag -- pulls out her remaining cash. It's drastically short of what she owes and she knows it. She tosses it onto the front seat, JUMPS from the cab, streaks across the street.  The CABBIE lets out a YELL and JUMPS out after her. 
"Let's Get  Crazy" continues as we ... 
CUT TO: 
(4) INT.  SHOWER, MORRIS' APT. -- NIGHT 
MORRIS DAY stands in the shower, steam whirling about his face.  He's 22 years old, matinee-idol sexy with large, dark, bedroom eyes.  He headlines a slick techno-funk group called THE TIME which sports gangster suits and wide-brimmed hats. He's gifted with a wealth of self- laudatory humor which he uses like a knife, moving through life with a calm, but ruthless grace. 
Make no mistake, Morris is nobody's fool.   His seeming out-raceousness, his charm -- every move he makes is for a calculated effect.  He knows exactly what the ladies need, and doesn't mind reminding them should they forget ... 
He breaks into a wide grin.  Hair standing up like Don King, he wipes off a hand mirror, regards himself unabashedly as he brushes his teeth. 
"Let's Get Crazy" continues as we... 
CUT TO: 
(5) INT.  BASEMENT,  PRINCE'S HOME -- NIGHT 
Prince sits in front of the mirror, finishes applying his makeup.  Black hair flowing, eyes wide and fantastic, he regards himself a moment before jumging up.  He puts on a high-collared overcoat, grabs his guitar  moves quickly to the basement window.  He hoists himself through it, disappears into the night. 
"Let's Get Crazy" continues as we ... 
CUT TO: 
... KIDS are crowded in front of the CLUB.  A YELLOW CADDY SCREECHES up in front.   TRAFFIC is jammed all around. The night is electric -- the scene beckons ... 
(14) INT.  VANITY'S HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
She runs from the room, cuts down the hallway, slanming the door behind her 
"Let's Get Crazy" continues as we... 
CUT TO: 
(15) EXT.  CLUB (1st AVE.  ST.  BAR) -- NIGHT 
Jerome opens the door of the CADDY, helps Morris out.  The CROWD recognizes them immediately, rushes in for a closer look.   Morris loves the attention, plays to their enthusiasm with a relish. Jerome snaps a comb into his hand, holds up a pocket mirror ... 
Morris combs his hair dramatically, the Crowd encouraging him on.  Jerome gives him the OK sign, ushers him into the club. 
"Let's Get Crazy" continues as we... 
CUT TO: 
(16) INT.  CLUB (1st  AVE.  ST.  BAR) -- NIGHT 
Prince onstage performing "Let's Get Crazy."   He's locked into a guitar solo, moving provocatively with Wendy. The CROWD is packed onto the DANCE FLOOR, thick against the stage. 
Jerome makes his way through the crowd, blazing a path for Morris who is surrounded by a dozen BABES. Occasionally Morris glances at Prince -- discloses by his look that he doesn't care much for his act -- or his music... 
He breaks off from the Girls, follows Jerome to the backstage entrance where they're joined by other MEMBERS of The Time -- JESSE and JELLYBEAN among them. Morris casts another glance toward Prince, breaks into a self-satisfied grin-- 
MORRIS We're going to slay him... (screams) Whawhak! 
"Let's Get Crazy" continues as we... 
CUT TO: 
(17) EXT.  CLUB -- NIGHT 
COMMOTION! The CROWD has become unwieldly -- TRAFFIC is snarled all around.  HORNS are BLARING.   COPS try desperately to ward off the inevitable grid lock. 
Vanity runs against the light, moves to the head of the queue to the accompaniment of JEERS and CATCALLS. She doesn't budge an inch, KNOCKS rapidly on the glass door, catching the attention of CHICK, a burly, 6'5", 285 pound bouncer with a white beard and long flowing hair.  An ex-Marine, Chick's function is obvious.  He cracks the door-- 
CHICK What? 
VANITY I have an appointment with the manager. 
CHICK No you don't -- he doesn't see anybody. 
Suddenly a FIGHT breaks out at the INSIDE MONEY WINDOW.  Chick spins instantly, SLAMS the door -- but Vanity jams her boot into the narrow space. The door crashes against her instep, she winces in pain --but Chick doesn't notice.  He's already upon the OFFENDERS,  heaving them against the wall. 
Vanity streaks inside, blazes up the stairway, ducks behind a GROUP of GIRLS... 
CHICK turns instantly -- the door is closed -- VANITY, gone.  His eyes dart up the stairway -- nothing.  He shrugs, drags the Two Guys off. 
(18) INT.  CLUB -- UPPER BAR AREA -- NIGHT 
VANITY watches as he moves away.   She jumps up, lunges onto the dance floor, CRASHES into a waitress, JILL, whose tray SMASHES to the floor-- 
JILL What are you retarded or something?! Why don't you look where you're going? 
She's 18 years old, blonde and pretty in a cute, innocent way.   A Daisy Mae-type whose emotions form so quickly, she has trouble sorting them out.  Right now she's mad as hell -- she thinks-- 
VANITY Sorry ... where's the office? 
Jill squats, picks up the broken glasses- 
JILL Do you think you can just come in here and take over? 
VANITY I said I'm sorry -- what do you want me to do?  Where's the office? 
Jill points -- Vanity hurries away  -- 
JILL (triumphantly) No one's in! 
VANITY Hey  wait! 
But Prince is too far away, the traffic too coneested for him to hear.  He whips down the street, disappears around the corner. 
Vanity continues running, then slows, dejection overcoming her in waves.  She looks around -- KIDS are staring at her, passing  jokes.  Embarrassed, She moves to the front door but Chick is there, his eyes upon her cold, impassionate. 
Exhausted and slighlty tearlul, she cuts across the street, heads back to her apartment. 
(20) EXT. PRINCE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
Prince WHIPS down the street, cuts his motor, coasts up the drive. He comes to a stop against a wooden gate.  His house is a nondescript, one-family structure with a wide front porch.  He lives in a neat and tidy, homogeneous, lower middle- class neighborhood whose occupants are hard-working type fiercely protective of their privacy. 
He climbs the steps to the porch, opens the front door... 
...his mothers SCREAM is like ice in his veins.  Fear trickles into the hollows of his body like cold water,  His pain commands him to move, but the impulse short circuits somewhere at the waist, leaving his legs twitching uncontrollably.  Then another SCREAM from his mother, and his father's voice now, LOUD and FURIOUS-- 
FATHER (O.S.) Listen to me!  You come home when I say come home!  You've got no business in the streets! 
WHACK!  His mother SCREAMS -- Prince BURSTS into the room. 
(21) INT. Prince's LIVING ROOM --  NIGHT 
Prince's MOTHER is at the far side of the living room CRYING uncontrollable. She's in her early 40's, a dark-haired, faded beauty, with large, wild, anxious eyes.  There's a detectable scent of liquor in the air, and her slurred speech pins her as the source. 
His FATHER is in his late 40's, a squat, but solidly built black man, with a cherubic face, and graceful expressive hands. 
He's upon her now, WHACKING! at her horribly, trying to get to her face-- 
FATHER You do what I say, do you hear me?!  You've got to keep this place clean!  You here, no place else! 
MOTHER You're crazy! 
WHACK! 
MOTHER Asshole! 
WHACK! 
MOTHER Motherfucker!!! 
The Father lunges, WHACKS! her across the face.  She topples to the floor, a lamp CRASHES to the ground.  Prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him-- 
PRINCE (pleading) Please, Dad...she's heard you. She's had enough! 
His Mother drags herself up along the wall-- 
MOTHER (hysterical) He's  trying to kill me!  He's crazy!  Look what he's doing to me! 
PRINCE (tearfully) Dad,  please ... she's-- 
WHACK!   Prince's head snaps back, his feet lift from the floor, his body CRASHES in a heap by the door... 
Stunned SILENCE.  Prince, flat on his back, fights vertigo with everything he's got.  His Mother lets out a YELP, rushes into the bedroom, SLAMS the door. His Father stands motionless, sullen-- 
FATHER Get up...you ain't hurt. 
Prince opens his Mouth, BLOOD gushes from a gash in his tongue.  He hoists himself up slowly, using the wall for support.  He moves into the kitchen, disappears down the basement steps. 
(22) BASEMENT -- HALLWAYS AND BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
A naked LIGHT BULB snaps ON.  It dangles like a pendulum, casting strange shadows.  The basement is partitioned off into a series of rooms, interconnected by a labyrinthine coimbination of passages.  An old washer and dryer stand in the corner. 
Prince descends the steps slowly.  He comes through a door, closes it behind him.  He moves down a narrow passageway, enters a small cramped BEDROOM. 
He closes the door and locks it behind him.  MOONLIGHT filters in throuch the cacement windows.  The total effect is like entering a womb, a deep dark chamber of security and safety. 
Lying heavily onto his bed, he sighs long and deep, his eyes piercing the darkness... 
FADE OUT: 
FADE IN: 
(25) EXT.  STREETS AND ALLEY -- DOWNTOWN -- DAY 
Morris and Jerome move briskIy down the sidewalk-- 
MORRIS This just ain't happening. The bitches are okay, but we need something more exciting- 
JEROME You're right.  We could be doing much better.  Any ideas? 
MORRIS That powder fine babe we saw last night. 
JEROME Oooh, yeee! -- Why don't we find out who she is? 
Morris snaps an address in front of his face-- 
MORRIS I already know that.  Jill gave me everything last night. Whawhak! 
JEROME Then what are we waiting for? Let's go! 
MORRIS No, no -- that ain't classy enough.  I want the bitch to come to me -- I'm the only star in this town. 
Suddenly  a BEAUTIFUL BABE lunges into the sidewalk from the alley-- 
BABE (yelling) Morris Day, who do you think you are?!  I waited up all night for you.  I'm so tired of you doing that  to me. You think you're so hot?  You're nothing special.  This is the third time you pulled that shit.  Who the fuck do you think I am?! 
MORRIS Jerome! 
Jerome puts the girl in a headlock, DRAGS her into the alley-- 
BABE (screaming) Leave me alone you ape! -- What are you doing to me?! Morris!! 
He flings her into the dumpster, SLAMS the lid with a CRASH.  Morris pats his brow-- 
MORRIS Lo-rd..!  Such nastiness. (a beat) Hee, hee -- Let's break. 
They streak across the street, double- time it to the CADDY.  A COP sweeps by, gives them a curious look.  Morris puts on a dignified air, then stops, stupified-- 
MORRIS Jerome, this car -- it's...it's lacking something. What do you think? 
JEROME Hmm... I don't know... 
MORRIS I got it!  The hubcaps.  We need something sweeter. 
JEROME I think I know what it needs. 
Morris is pondering his Stacy Adams-- 
MORRIS Yeah ... I know what these need. 
(26) INT.  SHOESHINE STAND -- DOWNTOWN -- DAY 
Morris sits in the chair, his Stacy Adams worked on by an old, grizzled SHOESHINE BOY in his mid-sixties, with large jowls and silver close-cropped hair.  Jerome stands nearby, watches intently-- 
MORRIS (musing) The girl has expensive tastes. I wonder if she can sing. 
JEROME As fine as she is...she doesn't have to know how to sing. 
MORRIS (grace) I know that's right. (to Shoeshine) Hey -- watch it now. 
The Shoeshine Boy looks up balefully -- Morris smiles, then grits his teeth-- 
MORRIS I want you to stay out of the set tonight.  I want you to work the floor. 
JEROME What for? 
MORRIS I want to know when that sweet thing shows up.  You stay by the door, you see her, you come get me, cool? 
JEROME Cool.  I come get you -- let you know the girl's there. 
MORRIS Well, not if I'm with my other babes.  That wouldn't be cool. I don't want to break their hearts, and you know how I feel abouy that.  So we ought to have like, a signal. 
JEROME A password. 
as she stops suddenly and stares transfixed.  A YOUNG WOMAN, startingly similiar to her in looks and coloring, tries on a beautiful bridal gown as a SEAMSTRESS adjusts the hem.  The entire scene is warm and endearing.  Vanity is struck by lt's beauty and seems to sigh. The Young Woman looks up suddenly, catches Vanity's gaze, and gives her an affectionate smile.  Vanity smiles back avidly, then-- 
PRINCE (0.  S .) Give me that. 
She looks up startled-- 
PRINCE There ... on your boot. 
She looks  down -- it's the expensive gold chain.  She hesitates, then hands it to him.  He drops it into his pocket, walks away-- 
VANITY Hey, wait! 
She runs after him-- 
VANITY Give it back to mel 
He continues to walk briskly -- she starts pulling on his coat-- 
PRINCE You can have it back later. 
VANITY I want it back now, okay? 
PRINCE Who gave it to you? 
VANITY A person 
PRINCE Female or male? 
VANITY Huh ... 
PRINCE You're lying.  I can tell just by your reaction that you're lying. 
He moves away briskly -- Vanity stands her ground, amused-- 
PRINCE So you gave it to me -- it's not yours anymore. 
He stops short -- something has caught his eye.  She's curious, comes up behind him, then-- 
VANITY You see something you like? 
He puts on his sunglasses.  A GUITAR stands prominently in the window. 
PRINCE Let's go for a ride. 
He flips her the gold chain' -- turns hastily.  She weighs it in her hand, studies the guitar-- 
VANITY It's pretty. 
(28) EXT.  HIGHWAY -- DUSK 
Prince and Vanity on his MOTORCYCLE blazing down the HIGHWAY, twisting through TRAFFIC.  The CITY is behind them, receding into the distance. 
(29) Ext. COUNTRYSIDE -- DUSK 
They pull off an access road, drop down a small embankment, ride down a narrow, dirt road. 
LAKESIDE 
The pull to a stop.  A LAKE stretches before them.  Vanity gets off the bike, walks around exploring, casting curious glances at Prince.  He stands by the water, idly tossing stones-- 
VANITY My psychic told rne I was going to be famous. 
PRINCE How much did that cost you? 
VANITY Fifty bucks.  It was a good investment. 
He doesn't respond -- she suddenly feels shy-- 
VANITY No seriously -- My psychic did tell me.  I was in a play once. 
PRINCE Oh, yeah -- what did you play? 
MUSIC.  The CLUB is PACKED!  THE MODERN AIRES is onstage, a hi-techno funk group, performing their trademark, a frenzied song entitled "Modern Aire" The floor is dense with KIDS, all performing the same syncopated dance. 
PRINCE moves through the club slowly, seems to be searching someone out.  His face is drawn and haggard, his spirits strained.  He cuts past the BAR, barely acknowledges Jill, or the other WAITRESSES by her side, KIM and KATY. Jill looks concerned-- 
KIM Honey, you still chasing after that fool? 
Kim is 21 years and gorgeous, with dark eyes, a smooth sculpted face, and taut shapely legs.  She is street-educated and doesn't need encouraging to speak her mind.  Katy is also in her-early 20's, a tall, alluring Oriental, with an attractive, intelligent face-- 
JILL I'm doing what I'm doing. It's my business. 
KATY He doesn't even look at you. That's the last thing you want from a man. 
JILL You just don't know him like I do. 
KIM Honey... Look, Listen, and then Feel.  If you do them in any other order, you're headed for trouble. 
Matt and Bobby (members of Prince's group) stroll up-- 
BOBBY Hey, Jill -- where's our drinks? 
JILL They're coming -- just wait. 
Matt stares hungrily at her breasts-- 
JILL What you want isn't on the menu. 
BOBBY Jill, in ten years they'll be on the table. 
She swats him with her order pad -- Bobby ducks, taunts her-- 
BOBBY C'mon, c'mon ... 
She goes to swing, Matt moves in, squeezes her breasts-- 
MATT (horn sound) BooPoo!! 
KIM Get out of here, you jerks! 
MATT Sweetheart ... do you have a real hot place where I could stick my nose? 
KIM Sure -- try a microwave. 
The Guys bust up, head for their tables- 
KATY Those guys are deep. 
KIM Yeah -- deeply retarded. 
(31) INT./EXT. CLUB -- MONEY WINDOW -- NIGHT 
Vanity stands in line waiting to get in. She wears a short, black dress and red heels, carries a black and red clutchbag.  Her hair is swept back and wind-blown, her eyes dark and dancing. She looks wickedly wonderful and knows it. 
CHICK stands by the window, arms folded, as massive as a Sequoia.  He regards her suspiciously-- 
VANITY (sweetly) I'm paying ... see? (to cashier, gruff) Keep the change. 
Chick advances on her -- her eyes widen with fear-- 
CHICK The manager wants to see you. 
VANITY Really..?  Oh, great...like to see him too. 
She breaths a sigh of relief. 
JEROME watches as Chick escorts Vanity to the upper level.  He stays short distance behind. 
(32) INT. CLUB UPPER LEVEL -- NIGHT 
as Vanity and Chick come to a  halt in the middle of the f Ioor-- 
CHICK He'll be right with you. 
(43) PRINCE'S POV -- INT.  LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
His Mother and Father in the living room.  His Mother is sprawled out on the sofa, obviously drunk, her dress hiked along her thighs.  Her head rests in his Father's lap. 
(44) EXT.  BACKYARD -- NIGHT 
Prince hops from the pipe, leans coolly against the house. Intrigued. Vanity looks in-- 
(45) VANITY'S POV -- INT.  LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
The mother and father kissing tentatively, then violently, finally pulling away.  The Mother seems to be taunting the Father, coaxing him into a trap.  He kisses her mouth lustily -- she pulls back snarling--. 
(46) EXT.  BACKYARD -- NIGHT 
Vanity's scared -- tries to be cool-- 
VANITY So -- friends of yours? 
PRINCE Yeah -- the freak show. 
He walks off.  She jumps off the pipe, follows. 
SIDE OF HOUSE 
as they emerge around the corner. Prince squats by a basement window, adjusts an old coal chute, then slides down it-- 
VANITY Hey... 
PRINCE (O.S.) C'mon. 
She hesitates a moment, then slides down too. 
(47) INT.  BASEMENT, PRINCE'S HOME -- NIGHT 
He turns on a LIGHT, disappears into an ADJOINING ROOM.  Vanity looks around amazed.  She stands in a small ANTE- CHAMBER whose walls are covered with thicks pads and foam. 
Colorful MOBILES hang suspended from the ceilings -- various INSTRUMENTS lie about: a drumset, an electric guitar, and a small upright piano.  A stereo and cassette player. are perched on a shelf, and  two speakers are recessed into the walls.  The entire room looks hand- built, the wood carefully painted, or stained. 
She peers through the doorway into the adjoining room.  BLUE MOONLIGHT filters in through the casement windows. Various MURALS are painted on the walls, MOBILES are suspended from the ceiling. A bed sits in the middle of the floor, a vanity table and mirror nearby. 
She stands idly a mement, then moves around the antechamber.  Various KNICKNACKS catch her attention. Small wind-up TOYS lie about:  a soldier, a bear banging on a drum, a tractor and car.  A small MUSIC BOX sits on a shelf. She turns the handle, a little TUNE fills the room... 
A cassette sits in the player.  She snaps it shut, hits the play button.  A DRUM BEAT fills the room, followed by a WOMAN'S VOICE, seemingly speaking in a foreign tongue.  The combination is hypnotic and sensual -- she finds herself drawn in ... 
Suddenly Prince grabs her by the waist, lets out a SHRIEK.  She draws a out breath, jumps-- 
VANITY If you think you scared me, you didn't. 
PRINCE Oh, yeah ... 
He puts his index finger directly in front of her nose, moves it back and forth hypnotically.  She follows it earnestly with her eyes.  Suddenly, he pulls his hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird.  They both smile, lock eyes.  Passion rings in their veins... 
The Woman's VOICE begins to moan deeply, pleasurably-- 
VANITY Who's the lucky girl?  Sounds like she was having a good time. 
PRINCE She's crying -- it's backwards.  It makes me sad when I hear it.  It sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it? 
VANITY So what did you do to her? Do you always treat your women like that? 
PRINCE I don't have anybody right now. 
Heat floods into her womb like soft fire- 
VANITY You look pretty... 
She touches his chest delicately, fluffs up his hair-- 
VANITY King Kong? 
PRINCE Stop. 
Morris MOANS dismally-- 
MORRIS Jerome...you think these can be fixed? 
His shoes are badly scuffed, the leather torn across the top-- 
JEROME I think they're dead, man. 
VANITY God, I'm sorry. 
MORRIS Shit -- it's so rough out here. 
Just then a PATROL CAR cruises by.  The COP regards them suspiciously.  Morris and Jerome snap to attention-- 
MORRIS You lock the door, baby? Let's go! 
They pile into the Caddy, pull out. 
(51)  EXT. HIGHWAY -- NIGHT 
The CADDY blazes by in the night.  The CITY LIGHTS glimmer spectacularly in the distance. 
(52)  INT./EXT. CADDY -- NIGHT 
Jerome drives.  Morris and Vanity sit in the backseat. He gazes at her ardently-- 
MORRIS Jerome! 
Jerome snaps a look in the rear-view -- Morris gives him a deft nod. Jerome opens the glove compartment, searches through the cassette tapes. He finds the one he wants, snaps it into the player. RESTAURANT AMBIANCE fills the car... 
Note:  The restaurant ambiance will grow in volume, and will be followed by exaggerated dinner music, punctuated with strings and delicate cymbals.  The MUSIC plays throughout this scene -- and Morris times his words to the ebb and flow of the piece to insure the proper dramatic effect. 
...dinner MUSIC begins-- 
JEROME Cocktails before dinner? 
MORRIS Yes -- two piña coladas. 
VANITY Uh...make mine a virgin. 
JEROME Okay... 
Jerome braces his knees against the wheel, pours two premixed coladas into plastic glasses-- 
JEROME (to Morris) Will you be having a virgin as well? 
MORRIS Ye-es!  For dessert!! Whawhak! 
Jerome stifles a laugh, pours a rum miniature into Morris' glass.  He hands them back-- 
MORRIS Thank you.  Here you are, dear. 
They savor their drinks -- Morris' fervor grows by leaps and bounds-- 
MORRIS Jerome, uh, get your pad and pencil, I think it's gonna be kinda right.  If my judge of character is correct, it's going to be about loving tonight. (a beat) Stop me when I get to seventeen. 
Jerome places a pad by his side, pencil at the ready. He settles the Caddy to a cruising 55 -- Morris looks deeply into Vanity's eyes-- 
MORRIS Excuse me, baby...I bet you didn't know I had a piece of this restaurant, did you? (a beat) May I taste that? 
He takes Vanity's drink, slurps a little, burps-- 
MORRIS Huh, excuse me, that's kind of weak...here, try mine. 
She does, and begins coughing violently- 
VANITY Good God! 
MORRIS Y'know...they say that saliva is an aphrodisiac. (a beat) You look so lovely tonight. 
VANITY (couching) Why...thank you. 
VANITY There's a lot of things you don't know about me.  You'd be surprised how many things I could do. 
He disappears around some trees-- 
VANITY Take me home immediately!  I want to go home.  I can't stand this!  I can't take this anymore!  Prince! 
PRINCE moves through the trees smiling, studying nature-- 
VANITY(O.S.) I don't need this!  I was doing alright before I met you.  Motherfucker, you need a haircut! 
He comes to a tree, leans against it contentedly, studies the foliage. 
VANITY paces back and forth frantically along the stream-- 
VANITY (to herself) I don't get this. (yells) Prince! Who do you think you are?!  You don't care.  You don't care about anything!  I never wanted you to help me anyway! 
PRINCE rests by the tree, observes TWO HIKERS walking down the path toward him- 
VANITY (0.S.) You think you're a good musician?!  You're nothing! Morris is better.  I never wanted to make it with you anyway. 
The Hikers pass him startled-- 
PRINCE Good morning. 
VANITY PRINCE, I HATE YOU! 
HIKERS Good morning, sir. 
And they walk down the path, disappear around the bend. Just then-- 
VANITY is standing by his side, a wildflower in her hands-- 
VANITY (softly) I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have said those things.  Will you forgive me? 
PRINCE (softly) Yes. 
He takes the flower, slips it into his jacket, kisses her forehead. 
(60) EXT. GLADE AND BARN -- DAWN 
as they ride down a leaf-strewn path and pull to a stop near an old, weathered, dilapidated BARN.  It stands laarge and silent like a painting.  A low THUNDER rolls across the land... 
(61) INT. BARN -- DAWN 
DAWN LIGHT burns through the wooden slats.. STEAM rises from the wet hay scattered throughout.  The air is thick and damp.  It begins to RAIN. 
Vanity stands in the middle of the barn, gazing at the storm.  Beads of perspiration glisten on her forehead. She turns slowly, watches as Prince retrieves old blankets from a nearby stall.  Their eyes search one another out, their breathing becomes short, expectant.  She hesitates a moment, then pulls off her blouse, discards it to the moist, dusty floor. 
(62)  INT. BARN -- DAY 
ANOTHER ANGLE RAIN patters srtongly against the barn. A deep THUNDER rolls.  She's on top of him, moving deliciously, her body glowing in the purple, dawn light. Moist, purple water shadows streak and course her skin as she moves slowly, then deliberately against him.  He watches her avidly,  his hands firmly on her thighs, and thrusts into her again and again...and again. 
(62A)  EXT. BARN -- DAY 
Leaves scatter as the bike whips thru the wet path. 
(63) EXT. STREETS, VANITY'S MOTEL -- MORNING 
The STREETS glisten with the rain. Prince and Vanity pull up in front of her motel.  She hugs him fiercely, steps off the bike, her face alive and fresh as a flower.  His eyes sparkle-- 
PRINCE See you later? 
VANITY When? 
PRINCE Why? 
VANITY 'Cause I have to do something first. 
PRINCE What? 
VANITY (coyly) A secret... 
MORRIS Oh, Lord... 
(68) INT. CLUB (1ST AVE. ST. BAR.) -- DAY 
CU--Clock.  We SEE 11:25 
Prince cuts through the back entrance, walks onto the floor.  Lisa and Wendy are onstage PLAYING a SONG we immediately recognize as the one they had given Prince to listen to.  The DRUM RIFF is provided by the Linn Machine (a synthesized drum unit).  Wendy plays guitar, her back to Prince.  Lisa, at the keyboards, spots him and stops-- 
WENDY What's wrong? 
Lisa points to Prince.  Wendy immediately rips into the guitar solo of "G-Spot."  She stops suddenly-- 
WENDY Is that better? Do you like that? 
He ignores her-- 
PRINCE Where is everybody? 
LISA You're late -- they left. 
PRINCE So what are you doing here? 
Lisa immediately launches into the opening bars of "Let's Get Crazy"-- 
LISA (imitating Prince) But I'm here to tell you that there's something else -- our music--. 
The Girls bust up -- he glares at them-- 
PRINCE Can't you guys get off it? Can't you just leave it alone? 
Wendy meets his glare with one of her own... 
WENDY Yeah -- we'll get off it. 
She turns, snaps off the Linn Machine angrily, plunging the club into silence. 
(69) INT. REHEARSAL HALL --DAY 
The Time is JAMMING like MAD, deep in the heart of "Sex Shooter."  Brenda and Susan move furiously to the beat, trying their best to get it right.  They are watched by ... 
...Morris, Vanity  and Jerome standing off to the side.  Morris has a contented look on his face, even though his girls are screwing up.  Vanity's eyes are wide with excitement 
MORRIS As you can see, we need someone with your special qualities. 
(70) INT. PRINCE'S ANTECHAMBER AND BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
CU--Clock.  We See: 8:15. 
Prince sits, on his bed, staring at the clock, seemingly lost in thoucht.  He gets up, rummages through his coat pockets, pulls out Lisa's and Wendy's tape.  He snaps it into the player, settles back. 
MUSIC fills the room.  He listens intently a moment, his face placid.  He closes his eyes, tries to relax ... 
Suddenly a DOOR SLAMS in the far reaches of the house.  Harsh FOOTSTEPS echo through the upstairs hallway.  Prince remains still, his eyes closed... 
Then another deathly DOOR SLAM!  GLASS dissolves in its frame and trickles to the floor like icicles.  Resentment surges in him like a tornado.  He rises purposefully, turns the MUSIC up... 
...And then his door SMASHES open and his Mother LUNGES into the room in a PANIC.  She flings herself onto his bed as his Father streaks in and WHACKS! WHACKS!  WHACKS!  at her with a strap, SCREAMING at her with an ominous growl of rage-- 
FATHER You ain't got no business leaving here!  All your sneaking around -- you're just a sinner!  You're nothing but a low life sinner! 
The Mother throws herself at him drunkenly, starts slapping, scratching at his face-- 
MOTHER Shut up!  You don't care about me!  Leave me alone! 
Prince claws desperately at his Father's back-- 
FATHER Don't I keep the heat on? Isn't there food in the refrigerator? 
MOTHER (crying) I don't like it here.  You never talk to me! I'm always alone! 
Prince drags his Father away-- 
She outlines the mole on his cheek with a makeup pencil, then draws one on herself.  She takes her earring off, and puts it on his ear.  They are face to face -- identical-- 
MOTHER So pretty... 
She looks at him drunkenly.  He tries to hold it in, but can't.  A tear, hot and hard as a bullet flows down his cheek. She puts her index finger in front of his face, moves it back and forth hypnotically.   Suddenly she pulls her hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird.  He swallows, tries to smile -- she leans close -- 
MOTHER (secretly) I have to go now, see some friends.  Don't tell your father, okay? 
She gets up, leaves the room-- 
MOTHER Bye, skipper...bye. 
(71) EXT. PRINCE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT (LATER) 
Vanity climbs over a fence, moves through some bushes, emerges along side Prince's house.  She has an excited, ravenous look on her face.  She hurries to the casement window, climbs into the basement. 
(72) INT. PRINCE'S BEDROObt -- NIGHT 
She drops down into the basement, turns excitedly, leaps into Prince's arms-- 
VANITY I missed you!  Missed you! Missed you! 
She hugs him tight, showers him with kisses, topples them both to the bed. Laughing, hugging, kissing -- fast and furious.  Suddenly she jumps up like a panther, fluffs her hair wildly in the mirror, fixes him with a wanton look. His eyes devour her-- 
PRINCE Come here.  Where were you? 
She moistens her lips, walks lasciviously toward the bed, sits facing him.  She laughs suddenly, pushes him back...and they're at each other again - - faces two inches apart;  touching, whispering, kissing, hands searching -- shutting out the rocm, shutting out the world... 
She jumps up suddenly.  She can't be contained!  She practically levitates-- 
VANITY I have a big surprise for you. 
She rushes to the coal chute, climbs halfway through.  Prince, puzzled, cracks up watching her ass and legs dangling.  She drops back into the room, holding a large PACKAGE.  His eyes widen.  She struts to the bed, lays it down majestically before him-- 
VANITY (sings) Da...da..! 
PRINCE What is it? 
VANITY Open it. 
He starts peeling the tape off, careful not to rip the paper.  Vanity's bursting with excitement though, and demolishes it in a flash!  He laughs, opens the lid -- stares in shock-- 
PRINCE Oh, no... (happy) Oh, no! 
He pulls out a gleaming new GUITAR, and we immediately recognize it as the one they saw in the window. He's deliriously happy, and speechless-- 
PRINCE How'd you do it? 
She shouts with delight, attacks him again, pushing the guitar aside.  Fast, furious kisses and he responds in kind. They're twisted in a heap on the bed. After a moment they come up for air, stare at each other playfully. Something flashes across his mind-- 
PRINCE Here... 
Her eyes widen.  He takes off his Mother's earring, fastens it to her ear. Eyes dancing, she jumps up, studies it closely, in the mirror-- 
VANITY I love it! 
She twists around, kneels beside him, showers him with bites and kisses. Suddenly she stops-- 
VANITY I'm going to join Morris' group. 
His face  drops, shocked-- 
PRINCE What? 
She backs away from  him, stands, strikes a defensive stance-- 
VANITY I'm going to join Morris' group. 
He LUNGES savagely before he knows it! His hand lashes out, SMASHES her in the face.  She falls back, CRASHES into the mirror.  She slips dully to the floor, tries desperately to brace herself on a chair-- 
He's horrified-- 
Suddenly a HORN BLARES off screen. Billy looks up -- a BEAUTIFUL BABE in a black BMW waves-- 
BILLY Go around the block! 
The Babe pulls into the flow of traffic- 
BILLY It won't be The Time -- they're playing backup to Vanity.  So it's either you or the Modern Aires. (a beat) What would You do in my position? 
Prince has a sinking feeling in his gut- 
BILLY (musing) I like the Modern Aires.  They have a good following -- they show up for practice -- and the kids like all their music. 
The BMW sweeps up to the curb.  Billy opens the door, slides in-- 
BILLY 'Nough said.  Get smart. Straighten up your shit. 
(76) INT. REHEARSAL HALL -- DAY 
The PLACE is JUMPING!  Once again The Time is deep in the guts of "Sex Shooter," but now there's a difference. The MUSIC is fiercer and crisper -- the BEAT tailored, more defined. 
Morris and Jerome stand off to the side sporting huge grins.  They're avidly watching... 
...Vanity, Susan, and Brenda dancing up a fierce storm.  Vanity fronts the two Girls and moves panther-like in front of the mirrors... 
She's a dynamo, her face drawn tightly, her movements crisp and precise.  She urges the Girls on, suggests and cajoles, strengthening their resolve. Sweat lathers their bodies and forms rings on their Danskins.  The act is still very rough, but the potential for success can be felt. 
PRINCE suddenly enters the hall.  Morris spots him immediately and halts the MUSIC.  The Girls dance on a moment, then stop perplexed.  Vanity catches Prince's look, shakes her head in disbelief-- 
PRINCE I want to talk to you. 
She's out of breath, waves him off-- 
VANITY Not now,  I'm busy. 
PRINCE Now. 
A TITTER goes through the Band Members - - Vanity wipes her face, fixes him with a glare-- 
VANITY I said I'm busy -- we'll talk later. 
PRINCE Uh, uh... 
He grabs her suddenly, pulls her to the door-- 
VANITY Leave me alone!  I've got a show to do! 
She pulls away savagely-- 
VANITY YOU can't just come in here and take me away!  We'll talk later! 
Morris is enraged-- 
MORRIS Man -- why don't you just do the walk? 
Prince glares at him, cups his genitals- 
PRINCE Why don't you kiss the one- eyed snake? 
The Band lets out a condescending GROAN -- the tension rises 
MORRIS Jellybean! 
Jellybean, 6'4", 210 pounds, steps from behind the drums, moves up behind Prince- 
JELLYBEAN Let's go, Jack. 
PRINCE Fuck you! 
He lunges, grabs Vanity again -- she SHRIEKS-- 
VANITY Leave me alone, dammit!  Get out of here! 
Something catches his eye -- he stops suddenly.  His Mother stands against the wall, idly watching the goings on.  He jumps off his bike hurriedly, walks up behind her, taps her on the shoulder-- 
PRINCE Ma...? 
She turns, he gasps out loud.  Her left eye is swollen shut-- 
MOTHER (drunkenly) Hi, ya, baby... 
Her drunken breath washes over him -- his head spins-- 
PRINCE Ma...what happened? 
She rubs up against him-- 
MOTHER Can you give me some money? C'mon, just some money... 
She gropes for him drunkenly -- he suddenly realizes she doesn't know who he is-- 
MOTHER Here...here... 
She tugs at her wedding ring-- 
MOTHER Give me something for this...just a little.  It'll be okay... 
PRINCE C'mon...I'll take you home. 
Just then a COP moves through the Crowd- 
COP Okay, c'mon now -- break it up.  Let's go.. 
The Crowd moves out.  Police RADIOS cackle.  Three WOMEN stagger over, one of them grabbing his Mother-- 
WOMAN C'mon, honey -- we're goin' in... 
She fixes Prince with a glare-- 
WOMAN You're a little young aren't you?  Get out of here.  Leave her alone. 
(79) EXT. PRINCES HOME -- NIGHT 
Prince BLASTS down the STREET, sweeps into his drive, and jumps off his bike, practically smashing it into the gate. His eyes are burning with anger.  He flies up the steps three at a time, cuts across the porch, bursts throuch the front door and-- 
(80) INT. PRINCE'S POME -- NIGHT 
-- stalks through the living room, eyes blazing-- 
PRINCE Where the fuck are you? 
He spins like a top, streaks down the hallway, throws open several doors violently-- 
PRINCE Where are you? 
He cuts into the kitchen raging-- 
PRINCE Answer me you fucker!! 
He twists around frustrated; exhaustion, anger, and pain competing for the same space.  Suddenly he stops, listens intently a moment.  We HEAR it now -- a PIANO.  Someone's PLAYING A PIANO. Prince throws a look at the basement door -- it's ajar. 
(81) INT. BASEMENT, PRINCE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
A naked LIGHT BULB snaps ON.  Prince hesitates a moment, descends the steps, pauses at the door.  The MUSIC wafts delicately in the night breeze.  He moves down the halllway uncertainly, but steadily, the MUSIC growing, drawing him in. 
He stops, peers into the antechamber. His Father is at the piano, his back to him.  He's perched on the broken stool, playing with all he's got. 
Prince moves slowly into the room, his knees weakening, his anger flowing from him with every step he takes.  Seeing his Father this way, he doesn't know if he should laugh or cry.  He sits down silently behind him, listens as his Father plays. 
The SONG ends.  His Father sits a moment, stretching his hands idly along the keys.  Feeling a presence in the room, he spins around and jumps slightly at seeing his son.  He fixes him with a threatening look, then shrugs, hunches over the keys-- 
PRINCE Is that yours? 
FATHER 'Course it's mine.  Who else's is it goin' to be?  Got all kinds of them.  They're different too. 
Jerome busts up-- 
JEROME Oh no... that's cold... 
But Billy agrees-- 
BILLY The Duke of Dick is in rare form tonight. 
They all look toward the stage-- 
PRINCE is fastened on Vanity and it's apparent to all.  He launches into the next verse- 
PRINCE She took me to her castle And I could not believe my eyes. She had so many devices Everything that money could buy. She said, Sign your name on the dotted line, The lights went out, And Nicky started to grind. 
VANITY flushes with embarrassment.  Billy and Morris notice this and glare at Prince. 
PRINCE looks dead-center at them, and then to Vanily-- 
PRINCE I woke up the next morning. Nicky wasn't there. I looked all ov'r all I found Was a phone number on the stairs. It said thank you for a funky time, Call me up when ev'r you want to grind. 
VANITY stands suddenly, fighting back tears. She backs from the table quickly, knocks the chair over.  Morris tries to help her, but she sweeps past him, hurrying for the exit. 
(85) INT. STAIRWAY/EXT. STREET -- NIGHT 
as she comes down the stairs stumbling slightly, tears streaming down her face. Chick sees her, reached out to help-- 
CHICK Hey ... 
But she pulls away, runs out the door, cuts across the street. 
(86) INT. CLUB -- NIGHT 
PRINCE brings the SONG to a blistering end. The stage is plunged into darkness.  He strips off his guitar, cuts from the stage, ignoring the grave looks from his Band Members. 
(87) INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
as Prince twists aggressively past a handful of FANS, rudely disregarding their attention.  He Cuts into the dressing room. 
(88) INT. DRESSING ROON -- NIGHT 
He's agitated, paces back and forth in a frenzy.  Suddenly the DOOR flies open. Billy Sparks enters angrily-- 
BILLY What the fuck's wrong with you, Prince?! 
PRINCE I don't have time for your bullshit, Billy.  What do you want? 
BILLY My stage is no place for your personal shit! 
PRINCE That's life, man. 
BILLY Life my ass, motherfucker! This is a business, and you're not too far gone to see that. (a beat) I've told you this before. You're not pulling them in like you used to.  The only person who gives a fuck about your music is yourself. 
PRINCE Fuck off! 
But Billy can't help laughing-- 
BILLY Just like your old man... 
Prince shoots him a threatening look-- 
BILLY Yeah -- you got it.  Tell me I'm wrong. (a beat) You're not blind.  Look around you.  No one's digging you. 
Prince turns away-- 
BILLY Look at your band.  Are they in here right now?  They're out there 'cause they can't stand being in the same room with you. (a beat) What a fucking waste...like father, like son-- 
PRINCE Lay off that! 
Billy turns to go-- 
BILLY Take your head out of your ass, Prince, check it out -- unless you like the view up there.  Your music doesn't make sense to anyone but yourself. 
PRINCE watches the Girls bowing to thunderous APPLAUSE.  Suddenly Vanity looks at him and touches the earring she's wearing -- it's his Mother's.  His knees weaken instantly, and he locks eyes with her. The heat between them is unmistakable. She smiles vividly, gives him an endearing wave and steps back as the curtain closes. 
He's MOVING through the Crowd before he knows it, trying to get to the backstage door.  The Crowd is thick, his path momentarily blocked.  He spots Billy Sparks cutting across the floor and congratulating Morris and Jerome. Prince turns from them, tries once again to make his way through the Crowd. 
(94) INT. DRESSING ROOM, AND HALLWAY -- THE TASTE -- NIGHT 
VANITY and the Girls rush into the dressing room and jump up and down with excitement.  They are beside themselves with happiness, kissing and hugging one another avidly.  Suddenly Vanity pulls away, indicates she will be back and cuts out the room. 
HALLWAY as she runs down the hallway to the backstage area, peers from behind the curtain, scanning the club earnestly. 
(95) IN'T. -- THE TASTE -- NEAR CURTAIN -- NIGHT 
as Prince waits impatiently in the long line.  Billy Sparks comes by, spots him and stops-- 
BILLY Morris is squeezing you, kiddo.  You better kick ass tomorrow night or else. 
He cuts outside, disappears into the Crowd.  Prince stands there steaming, the wind knocked out of him, his joy a memory.  He turns back to the line, but it has grown, the Crowd now jammed up against the door.  Frustrated, he cuts outside. 
BACKSTAGE as Vanity watches Prince leave.  A profound sadness sweeps her face. Suddenly Susan is by her Side, hugging and kissing her happily.  Brenda runs up, pouring champagne.  Morris, Jerome and The Time are at the end of the hallway and beckon her excitedly into the room.  Vanity forces a smile, goes down the hallway, casting another look at the exit door. 
(96) EXT. BACK ALLEY, THE TASTE -- NIGHT 
Morris and Vanity stagger down the ALLEY obviously very drunk.  Morris pulls from a FLASK.  Vanity is still in her lingerie, wears an open coat over it. Her speech is slurred-- 
VANITY Did you hear these people applauding?  They loved us -- they wanted to rip us apart, and this is just our first night.  I can see it now, we're all going to be big stars.  I can feel it. 
MORRIS (singing) Ain't nobody bad like me. 
She kisses him spontaneously on the cheek-- 
VANITY Morris, you're a genius. 
MORRIS Ye-es... 
He fixes her with a sexy look, takes a healthy look from his flask, then gives it too her.  Vanity throws her head back, drinks fully, the liquor coursing over her cheeks.  He devours her with his eyes, opens the door to the Caddy-- 
MORRIS Let's go, Bebe. 
She stops as if remembering something-- 
VANITY Huh, where's Jerome? 
MORRIS In his skin...hee, hee... 
He's trying to nudge her into the Caddy- 
VANITY Is he coming? 
MORRIS I gave him the night off. 
VANITY Why? 
He staggers back from the car, undulates his hips wantonly-- 
MORRIS Whawhak! 
She busts up.  Just then a MOTORCYCLE can be heard off screen.  They look around drunkenly, trying to discern its direction.  Suddenly Prince BLASTS around the corner FULL OUT!  He streaks by Morris and KICKS him flat on his ass into the garbage-- 
MORRIS (wails) Oh, no -- Oh, God...No! 
Prince skids to a slick stop.  Vanity is transfixed.  The entire episode  took less than five seconds.  He twists the throttle, BLASTS down upon her... 
She breaks in a panic!  She runs clumsily down another alley, her coat flying.  He WHIPS after her like a madman.  She flies around the corner -- a dead end!  He fishtails to a slick stop-- 
PRINCE Get on! 
There's no way out!  Suddenly she lets out an excited YELP, jumps on.  He guns the bike, BURSTS up the alley.  Morris jumps into his path drunkenly, his arms extended-- 
MORRIS Stop! Stop! 
But Prince BLAZES down upon him, sending him slipping and sliding to safety.  He BLASTS around the bend-- 
PRINCE Dad...? 
Silence.  A sudden dread courses through him, leaving a hollow in his stomach. His feet are like lead.  He moves heavily into the room-- 
PRINCE Mom...? 
Nothing.  Panic sets in.  He STREAKS down the hallway, twists open the bedroom door -- it's empty.  Blue NIGHT LIGHT glows through the windows. CURTAINS play delicately in the breeze. He's thoughtful, walks back into the living room... 
...the COFFEE TABLE is SMASHED.  He looks at it curiously, wondering stupidly if it had always been like that.  Then sudden bolt of fear makes his head swim.  A lamp, a porcelain dish, some knickknacks on the mantle -- all smashed.  He rushes into the kitchen, looks around crazily-- 
PRINCE Daddd...! 
Nothing but the decay of his scream. The BASEMENT door is ajar.  He cuts to it quickly, pulls it open, peers frantically into the darkness below.  He snaps ON the light... 
(101) OMIT 
(102) EXT. PRINCE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
SIRENS!  The SCENE is a riot of COLOR and FRENZY.  A POLICE CAR, LIGHTS FLASHING, skids into the drive. NEIGHBORS jam the STREETS.  POLICE CARS are parked all around. 
(103) INT. BASEMENT, PRINCE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT 
CHAOS!  The BASEMENT is PACKED with COPS.  Prince's father is strapped into a gurney, staring dully at the ceiling. PHOTOGRAPHERS snap pictures as PARAMEDICS work feverishly over him. I.V. UNITS are pushed into his veins. An OXYGEN MASK is placed over his nose and mouth.  Huge white bandages are bunched up along the back of his head. His Mother is kneeling by the gurney, crying hysterically, grasping his hands in a white panic.  TWO COPS support her. Someone is SHOUTING instructions. RADIOS crackle incessantly.  A MEDIC cries-- 
MEDIC Lift! 
And the gurney is hoisted up the stairs quickly, the bulk of the crowd following, his Mother supported as she ascends the stairs. 
Prince sits on a tattered sofa in the corner, his head bowed.  Cops standing and kneeling beside him.  Somebody finished taking notes, closes his pad. One Cop rests a hand on his shoulder, talks to him in soft tones.  Prince shakes his head slightly.  The Cop gives the group a signal and everyone disperses, moves up the stairs.  The Cop looks at him sympathetically, then closes the door behind him. 
(104) INT. BASEMENT -- NIGHT 
PRINCE sits motionless a long time.  Moonlight floods the basement with a foreboding light.  A dog BARKS somewhere in the distance.  He looks up suddenly, his face agitated, his eyes red from tears. 
PRINCE'S POV-- CHALK MARKS on the floor outlining the body of his Father.  There's a GUN in his Father's hand clearly marked. 
A train WHISTLE in the distance.  He's staring at the gun.  He shakes his head, rubs a hand over his face vigorously and looks up again... 
...the GUN in his Father's hand.  He can't get it out of his mind!  The WHISTLE is CLOSER. 
He lurches to his feet, paces back and forth crazily.  His Father's head, the gun...the gun...the... 
The WHISTLE is LOUDER. 
He throws himself into the chair, buries his face deeply into his hands and cries.  Huge racking sobs spasm through his body.  His Father, his Mother, his entire life, his music, his guitar... 
He looks up suddenly -- the gun in his Father's hand. 
..and he stares at it. 
The WHISTLE is LOUDER! 
His heart is pounding in his ears.  He squeezes them shut, looks up... 
The gun. 
He bolts to his feet, paces back and forth in a panic!  The train is HOWLING! A rope in the corner of the room, his face, the gun... 
He sits dully, gazes at the rope as if in a trance.  The TRAIN is ROARING past the house, it's HORN BLASTING.  The rope, the gun, and his body dangling from the rafters in the night breeze-- 
PRINCE (screaming) Noooooo!! 
He lurches to his feet, cuts through the basement like a madman.  He grabs a stick and starts SLASHING things crazily, moving through the room swinging his stick wildly again and again. 
He's lost to himself now, deep in the pit of an unknown terror, expurgating a horror that has been festering in him for years.  He flings his stick at the wall, unends shelves and bureaus, trampling old memories that have lain dormant for years. 
Drawer after drawer is flung against the wall, their contents smashing and scattering about.  He opens a large, oaken chest and flips over.  Thick three inch piles of yellowed paper fall out. He snaps through the rubber bands holding them together and flings the paper at the wall again and again... 
...he stops suddenly, shocked.  He SEES musical notes written down on the paper. his heart pounding in his chest, he searches frantically through the rubble scattered about him.  More and more musical notes, sketched ideas, simple melodies, entire songs and scores -- all meticulously recorded on lined yellowed paper, dated for the last 20 years, and signed...by his Father.  He's shocked to a standstill.  Then the full significance of what's before him hits him like a sledgehammer.  He collapses in agony against the chest, tears flowing down his cheeks. 
(105) INT. BASEMENT -- A SERIES OF SHOTS (NIGHT INTO DAY) 
PRINCE does not move.  The APPLAUSE trickles away.  He continues to stare in the audience making no attempt to direct his Band, or start a tune.  A nervous TWITTER ripples though the crowd.  Those who know about the tragedy feel a profound embarrassment for him -- but no one turns away.  Then his voice comes clear and mellifluous-- 
PRINCE I would like to do a song that two of my friends wrote. 
A MURMUR, cuts through the Crowd like a riptide.  Prince snaps a look to Lisa and Wendy and confirms that it is indeed their song.  They can't believe it! Tears spring to Wendy's eyes before she knows it ... 
Prince smiles at her, then gazes at his entire Band.  Their eyes fasten on him in an instant.  He counts softly and... 
MUSIC.  The opening bars of "Purple Rain."  He turns to to the audience and SINGS.... 
It's a ballad, a poem really, a plea for understanding, love, and survival.  It's a testament, a pact if you will, between himself and others... 
The AUDIENCE is mesmerized, all EYES are upon him -- but Prince doesn't notice. Lips pressed against the mike, dark eyes streaming, he's lost to himself now, loosening all that's within him, cleansing himself of his rage, hatred and pain... 
VANITY is crying.  Every moment she has shared with him is expressed in this song, and the effect on her is unnerving.  Her heart leaps to him in a way she never thought possible.  But she lets it go willingly, as the words draw her in, seducing her somehow, making her free...as if the music, his words, all that he has experienced and  understood, is purging what is confused and ugly within herself, leaving her with an understanding and joy that burns in her womb like soft fire.  A smile springs to her lips as tears continue to flow, and she finds herself moving closer... 
...as the Audience moves closer, drawn somehow to the stage, to the person who SINGS so truly, to the person who gives of himself unselfishly to all that he feels... 
Prince begins a long sustained CRY that cuts though the hearts of all present. The MUSIC builds awsomely, and he continues to sing out, emptying himself of all the remaining pain lying within. The MUSIC crescendos and comes to a quiet end... 
Stunned SILENCE.  A silence so profound you could hear a pin drop.  Prince sighs, assumes the worse, then cuts across the stage purposefully.  Now some CLAPPING.  And a WHISTLE from the back and the SHOUTING.  And more WHISTLES and some even SCREAMING.  And the WHISTLES and the SHOUTS and the CLAPPING growing and growing as.... 
(112)  INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Prince cuts from the stage in a frenzy, rushes toward the rear exit.  The APPLAUSE is building and building until it's a THUNDER, an onrushing ROAR, an avalanche of HYSTERIA that rocks the club mightily... 
PRINCE is still running though, his face streaming with tears, past the surprised look of Jill, past the FANS, past everyone -- stripping of his clothes fiercely, flinging off his jacket, his shirt, his scarf-- 
(113) EXT. BACK ENTRANCE, INT. HALLWAY -- CLUB -- NIGHT 
He SMASHES open the door, BURSTS outside.  He sucks in the night air as if he was drowning.  He wipes away his tears, rushes to his bike, starts to undo the chain... 
...they're SHOUTING his NAME... 
Not randomly, not haphazardly, but...in unison.  And relentless, very demanding, downright urgent, and...it's beautiful. 
A wry smile crosses his lips.  He heads back to the door.  Jill is there, scared, her face a map of tears.  He flashes her a smile-- 
PRINCE Hi. 
She's thunderstruck, can barely squeak it out-- 
JILL Hi. 
And he whips into the hallway.  Her face dissolves into a smile of pure joy. 
(114) INT. CLUB -- NIGHT 
MOVING now, FAST and FURIOUS.  The HALLWAY is LINED with PEOPLE.  They reach for him as he passes, touching him, showering him with their love. Someone hands him his shirt, another his scarf -- it's so intense! 
He's moving quickly now, his jacket up ahead, closer...he stops suddenly, stunned... 
...Vanity is holding his jacket.  He's struck speechless -- she hands it to him smiling, tears streaming down her face-- 
VANITY I love you. 
His knees go weak, she kisses him spontaneously, pushes him lovingly to the stage. 
THE CROWD IS ROARING! 
(115)  INT. HALLWAY AND STAGE REAR -- NIGHT 
He's half-running now like crazy -- his Band is on-stage, peering anxiously into the hallway.  They spot him and relief sweeps their faces like a tidal wave. He whips his jacket on, rushes up the stairs... 
(116)  INT. CLUB -- NIGHT 
STAGE THUNDER!  Prince walks center- stage...and bows.  The AUDIENCE goes BERSERK!  He acknowledges Wendy and Lisa, and then the entire Band.  The CROWD is jumping out of their skin!  He straps on his guitar, gives a deft signal and-- 
MUSIC.  The Band launches into "I Would Die For You."  Vanity squeezes her way through the crowd and stands watching Prince from the wings.  He presses his lips to the mike and SINGS. 
The MUSIC continues as we... 
