QUEEN OF THE DAMNED 
Written by 
Scott Abbott and Michael Petroni 
Based on the novel by 
Anne Rice 
FADE IN: 
1   EXT. LAFAYETTE CEMETERY (NEW ORLEANS) - NIGHT               1 
An empty breeze blows across a deserted cemetery. We hear the sound of FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING, then nineteenth- century boots ENTER FRAME. We FOLLOW them strolling past the headstones and mausoleums. The sound of a HORSE and CARRIAGE ECHOES in the distance. 
VOICE (V.O.) There comes a time for every vampire when the idea of eternity becomes momentarily unbearable... 
As we REACH an old stone tomb, the boots leap up and OUT OF FRAME. PAN UP to reveal: 
A FIGURE stands steadily atop the roof of the tomb, silhouetted against the moon like a large, black bird. 
VOICE (V.O.) The wounds suffered from love and failed friendships don't heal like a human's, but seem to only gape larger. The longing to be mortal returns, a longing for finiteness. 
A beat as the indistinct figure gazes out at the night... 
CUT TO: 
2   OMITTED                                                     2 
4   EXT. TOMB - CONTINUOUS ACTION                               4 
The figure enters an alabaster tomb and closes the door. 
VOICE (V.O.) In 1883 I suffered such a spell and decided to cease feeding on blood. Just lie in the earth and let time return to its natural state... 
As the WIND PICKS UP, the LEAVES of a fledgling vine growing up the side of the tomb begin to RATTLE FASTER and FASTER, until curiously, time seems to speed up. Night passes to day and back to night. Shadows from the sun and moon drift across the tomb. As days and months fly by, the vine winds and grows in circuitous patterns all around the tomb. 
(CONTINUED) 
4   CONTINUED:                                                    4 
VOICE (V.O.) I had hoped the sounds of the passing eras would fade out, and a kind of death might happen. A kind of forgetting where I would be healed from my wounds. 
The CLIP-CLOP of HORSES and the SQUEAK of PERAMBULATORS DISSOLVE INTO the THUMP and SCRAPE of INDUSTRIAL ENGINES. 
VOICE (V.O.) But as I lay there, the sounds didn't fade but grew with the world. 
The BUZZ of PROP ENGINES MELT INTO the sound of a JET STREAMING overhead. CARS, MACHINES, RADIO BROADCASTS MERGE INTO a medley of MUSIC from this century -- JACK BENNY, MUDDY WATERS, ELVIS, HENDRIX, SEX PISTOLS. 
VOICE (V.O.) And gradually the world didn't sound like the place I had left, but something different... better... 
As we DRAW CLOSER TO the now vine-covered tomb, SOUNDS of the '70s, '80s, '90s PERSIST... 
VOICE (V.O.) A new fearless attitude had possessed the world, brave and Godless. I began to wonder if it was not time to resurrect. But the thing that eventually brought me back -- the decisive thing really -- came like a bolt out of the blue. 
GUITARS STRIKE, DRUMS CRACK and the MUSIC SLAMS OUT, raw and dark. 
5   SERIES OF GLIMPSES                                            5 
Slender hands with long, painted nails, Gothic rings, and a half-pound of silver bracelets play their instruments. Long hair, body piercings, Celtic tattoos, and brightly- colored nylons show a lot of pale, smooth flesh. In the confusion of glimpses, it's hard to tell who's a boy or girl, but they're all young and beautiful. Breaking in on the CACOPHONY of MUSIC COMES ONE GUITAR CLOSER and LOUDER than the rest. 
(CONTINUED) 
5    CONTINUED:                                                  5 
A SCRAPING ROAR, like a bandsaw being twisted into the most gorgeous, powerful chords, almost religious in its emotion. 
VOICE (V.O.) A music so sublime, so deeply vampiric, I had no doubt it could be heard in Hades. I had no choice... it summoned me. 
An ULTRA-FAST TECHNO BEAT BEGINS and the FULL-SOUND of a BAND RUSHES in, creating a sense of vertigo with its energy. 
6    INT. TOMB                                                   6 
The BAND'S sounds ECHO about the stone chamber, thrumming a deep, life-giving pulse. Suddenly, the LID of a SARCOPHAGUS SCRAPES and slides to one side. 
7    EXT. LAFAYETTE CEMETERY (NEW ORLEANS) - NIGHT               7 
The Figure re-emerges from the tomb, his cape now in tatters -- posture bent. He creeps across the cemetery in unnatural, staccato movements as if hindered by the physics of distance and time. All the while the SONG plays, drawing the figure toward it. 
8    EXT. FRENCH QUARTER - NIGHT                                 8 
The Figure moves through the shadows avoiding the spill of yellow light from the street lamps. Stopping in a darkened alleyway, he gasps for air, exhausted by his movements. He listens again to the mesmeric TUNE of the band in the distance, when -- From down the alley, a voice... 
VOICE #2 (O.S.) (in French; subtitled) Need a fix? 
9    CLOSE ON FIGURE'S EYES                                      9 
staring hungrily at... 
10   BACK TO SCENE                                               10 
FLYING ACROSS night skies, as the distinctive dark sound of SATAN'S NIGHT OUT KICKS IN to join Lestat's soaring voice. (CONTINUED) 
15   CONTINUED:                                                    15 
LESTAT (V.O.) It was a bold move, I admit. But from that moment on, they were my friends, my children, my band. Together we rode on the wave of my preternatural ambition to superstardom, giving the world a new god... me. 
We COME ACROSS the city lights of London. Below, police cars section off a few blocks around a very sleek, ultramodern office building where a huge crowd has gathered. 
SUPERIMPOSE:    LONDON (6 MONTHS LATER) 
16   EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS ACTION                      16 
Through the crowd, a very long, black limousine snakes its way toward the building. Rows of fans dressed as Goths, ghouls and vampires scream out... 
FANS Lestat!    Lestat! 
Girls press their breasts and necks up against the limousine. Thump! Thump! Fan after female fan flings herself on the car. Groupies scream with pure excitement. 
Confusion of screams as the door to the limo opens. The crowd's scream reaches a fever pitch as... James, Alex and Maudy climb out, ogle at the sight. ROGER SMYTHE, their business manager (40s), gets out next, hustling them through the crowd. 
A wave of hysteria hits the fans. Roger hustles the band through the crowd and up the stairs into the church, past the giant billboard with their own images written huge, Lestat's smiling face above them all and the announcement -- 
LESTAT -- LIVE & UNDEAD -- OCTOBER 31, ALL HALLOW'S EVE, DEATH VALLEY, U.S.A. 
17   INT. OFFICE BUILDING - SOON AFTER                             17 
A high-tech conference room. The band, sitting up front, is faced by an audience of over fifty journalists and then another fifty photographers and TV cameras. The room crackles with anticipation. Roger steps to the podium. 
(CONTINUED) 
17   CONTINUED:                                                   17 
ROGER May I present the Vampire Lestat. 
He pushes a button and a black curtain slides open to reveal a huge monitor on the wall. 
Every eye is glued to the SCREEN... CRACKLE, CRACKLE. Nothing. Then suddenly, on the screen, a face in shadow appears... Lestat. His voice booms out over the crowd. 
LESTAT Good evening. I'm so sorry I'm late. I was just having my... breakfast. 
18   OMITTED                                                      18 
19   BACK TO SCENE                                                19 
Then Lestat leans forward into the light. Hushed whispers move through the crowd. Lestat's eyes burn unnaturally bright. His white skin absolutely glows, luminous. Lestat smiles out at them with a tight smile. Then grins wider, revealing his fangs. 
JOURNALIST Excellent makeup job.   Marilyn Manson, look out... 
A thousand questions suddenly burst out of the journalists. 
ROGER Hey, hey! We're gonna keep this short here! One at a time. You! 
He points to a PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST. 
PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST So, Lestat. You say you're a real vampire. Correct me if I'm wrong, but what I remember about vampires is you guys usually keep your identity secret. 
LESTAT Yes. But why hide it in this day and age? I've hidden in the shadows for centuries. It's time to share myself with the world. 
(CONTINUED) 
19   CONTINUED:                                                   19 
In the corner, Roger gives a big winking smile to the camera crew. The journalists smile, playing along. A younger, hipper MUSIC magazine JOURNALIST pipes in... 
MUSIC JOURNALIST And it doesn't hurt the record sales, huh? Your album just topped all kinds of sales records. 
LESTAT Our label isn't complaining, no. 
PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST Could you prove it? You know give us a demonstration of your powers? 
LESTAT If you like, I'll give you a private demonstration in your hotel room tonight. 
The journalists laugh. The French Journalist looks a little frightened/fascinated by Lestat's leer. 
LIFESTYLE JOURNALIST Why not a demo at your own house? I mean, what's with all the secrecy about where you stay? Is it true you move residences every few days? 
LESTAT (smiles, giving away nothing) After calling one stone tomb home sweet home for so long, I like to experience as much diversity as I can. Wouldn't you? 
The Lifestyle Journalist smiles. 
MUSIC JOURNALIST There are a lot of rumors flying around the internet about the hidden meaning in your lyrics, that you're giving away 'vampire secrets.' Something in all that? 
20   SMALL TV SCREEN                                              20 
In a dark room, the interview continues. 
(CONTINUED) 
20   CONTINUED:                                                    20 
LESTAT (V.O.) Maybe I'm trying to resurrect a few old friends with my words. Daring them to come out. 
CUT TO: 
26   CLOSE ON SET OF HEADPHONES                                     26 
as it plays LESTAT'S SONG. 
PULL OUT ON... 
A beautiful young woman, JESSE, 22, lays in black satin sheets. Her long red hair snakes over her slender neck as she sleeps to Lestat's voice, still as death. Flickering candles all over the room reveal her lithe, strong body, pale as the moon. She is surrounded by her work, ancient language books, her laptop computer. Another book is clenched in her hand. The Unconscious Vampire. We MOVE IN ON her fluttering eyes. 
CUT TO: 
27   DREAM SEQUENCE - EYES                                          27 
opening. Blank. Still. Unsettling. PULL BACK to reveal these eyes belong to a 19th-century porcelain doll. We TRACK ACROSS rows and rows of dolls from different eras, all exquisitely detailed. TRACK PAST the billowing floor-to-ceiling curtains to reveal a six-year- old girl lying awake in a large bed, Jesse, green eyes and long red curls. LAUGHTER wafts in with the breeze. 
28   INT. CORRIDOR                                                  28 
Jesse's bare feet pad down the endless corridor. The little girl is dwarfed by the stone pedestals, all lit with candles. LAUGHTER ECHOES through the halls. 
29   INT. GREAT HALL                                                29 
Jesse moves past rough-hewn columns, watching something with great curiosity. Behind her, we glimpse a giant mural of names cut into the stone walls. A family tree, extending up onto the ceiling and down to the floor. 
30   JESSE'S POV                                                    30 
A grand party is in progress. There are about thirty vampires, all thin, pale and beautiful. An eclectic group, elegantly-dressed in Indian silks, Arabic veils, mixed with a few gaudy Versace outfits. Guests lean into each other's necks, showing blood-red tongues and fangs. 
31   BACK TO SCENE                                                  31 
A young VAMPIRE scoops Jesse up and puts her on his knee. 
(CONTINUED) 
31   CONTINUED:                                                  31 
VAMPIRE Ah, Jesse. You want to come and play with us, don't you? 
She stares at him, nervous, intrigued. 
WOMAN (O.S.) (urgent) Jesse! 
VAMPIRE Soon, soon, little one. I'll make sure you're with us forever. 
WOMAN (O.S.) (more urgent) Jesse! 
32   INT. JESSE'S BEDROOM (PRESENT)                              32 
JESSE No! 
Jesse sits up with a start. She stands, heart pounding, trying to shake the dream off. We see on a bulletin board behind her, a flyer for Lestat's concert. She takes off the headphones. Walking over to the mantel above her fireplace, she picks up a solitary, framed photo -- holds it tight... 
33   CLOSEUP - PHOTO                                             33 
Young Jesse (the girl from the dream) stares straight at camera. She is held in the arms of a red-haired woman, her back to camera. 
34   BACK TO SCENE                                               34 
Jesse puts the photo down, catches her reflection in a mirror, lit by flickering candlelight. Her face is distressed, troubled by the dream. She goes to the window, stares out into the black night. The dark waters of the Thames snake through the London cityscape. Jesse blows out the candles. Darkness. 
CUT TO: 
35   EXT. TUBE STATION (LONDON) - THAT NIGHT                      35 
Fluorescence pierces the black night. Jesse comes out of the tube station in a tight, short skirt, boots. She looks down the street. In one direction, a busy, brightly-lit street. Jesse gazes at a group of tourists coming out of a pub, laughing. Then she turns, looks the other direction. A dark street. She hesitates a long moment, stares at the light, then can't help herself, plunges toward the darkness, the LAUGHTER ECHOING, then DYING. 
36   EXT. ALLEY - JUST AFTER                                      36 
Jesse passes "rent-boys" stepping from the shadows as cars cruise by. Jesse, unable to look away, gazes as one gets in a car. He stares back at her, disappears into the car. 
37   EXT. BRIDGE - JUST AFTER                                     37 
Jesse passes couples using the shadows for privacy in the dark, filthy streets. She strides past a girl leaning against a brick wall, the man grunting, moving rhythmically against her. 
38   EXT. LONDON STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT                        38 
Fog floats in the yellow vapor lights. Jesse pauses at the intersection of a narrow alley. She hesitates, nervous, then turns down the dark lane, disappearing into the blackness... 
39   EXT. WAVERLY ARMS - NIGHT                                    39 
Jesse, from the shadows, gazes, wide-eyed, at the Soho private club's entrance, a solitary door with a faded sign and a dull blue light mounted above. 
Jesse hears strange whispering. She sees now figures moving through the fog. One pushes a buzzer. Jesse stares, barely breathing, her heart pounding. 
The figures have white, luminescent faces, strange, bright, glowing eyes. Their fingernails are glass-like. A moment later, a slot in the door opens. The glowing eyes of another creature stares out at them, scrutinizing them. The door closes quickly. 
Jesse stands there, deliberating. She takes a step closer to the door. Stops. Takes another nervous step. She hears something, whirls around. 
(CONTINUED) 
39   CONTINUED:                                                       39 
JAMES I'm ready for Los Angeles... 
(CONTINUED) 
47   CONTINUED:                                                  47 
MAUDY I'm ready for Death Valley. (jazzed) Two days till we go... 
THROUGH the broken glass we see Roger slump into a chair, his nerves totally frayed. 
ALEX Think we can call that a night. 
Unhooking their instruments, Alex and James start to pack up as Maudy slowly approaches Lestat and nuzzles his neck. 
He shivers with temptation. Her hand moves down the front of his pants. Lestat pulls her into his arms. Leaning into her neck he breathes in her scent, closes his eyes and... Suddenly opens them right at Roger who looks on, extremely perturbed. Smiling like the devil... 
LESTAT Oh, the sweet song of her blood. 
Roger stares on, terrified. 
LESTAT I'll hear it in my head all night. 
Gently letting Maudy go... 
LESTAT Roger... 
He goes directly to Roger, reaches into his open shirt, pulls out the crucifix around his neck. 
LESTAT I didn't know you were religious. 
Roger tries to laugh it off. Lestat sniffs the air. As Roger backs away, he turns to open the door, stumbles, cutting his hand on a fallen shard of glass. Blood trickles from the cut. Roger looks up at Lestat whose dark eyes stare intensely at Roger's blood. Roger quickly sticks his hand in his mouth. With a horrified expression, he realizes he's sucking his blood. He quickly heads out. But Lestat is faster and reaches into Roger's shirt pocket. Pulls out a clove of garlic.     Lestat shakes his head with a smile. 
LESTAT Roger... 
(CONTINUED) 
47   CONTINUED:    (2)                                                 47 
Roger tries to laugh. Reaches for the garlic to put it back in his pocket. But Lestat grabs Roger's hand, blood trickling down his wrist. Lestat speaks intensely. 
LESTAT Be careful, Roger.   Very careful. 
Lestat walks away.    Roger exhales with relief. 
CUT TO: 
48   INT. TALBOT'S CHAMBER - SAME TIME                                 48 
A wood-lined room -- walls covered with books, artifacts, paintings. Jesse stands before Talbot. He fixes his eyes on her, pours her some coffee. 
TALBOT How's everything? You alright? You sleeping okay? 
JESSE Yeah, I'm great. I just found a vampire. 
TALBOT (considers her) Jesse... you're taking this Lestat stuff pretty seriously... why? 
JESSE Cause I think I'm on to something pretty big. The most important sighting Talamasca's had in years... (beat, sighs) Jesus, I don't know, David... I thought I was onto something... Maybe I didn't see anything... 
Talbot takes in the dark circles around her eyes, how quickly she's emptied her coffee cup. He pours her more, smiles gently. 
TALBOT You know we work in a really strange field? The supernatural is beguiling at times. It doesn't like to just be observed, it is only satisfied when it has drawn us in completely. I know cause I've felt these things myself. (MORE) 
(CONTINUED) 
48   CONTINUED:                                                           48 
TALBOT (CONT'D) That's what we have to resist, as Talamascans... (as a shadow crosses his face) It's not always easy. 
JESSE (leaning forward) Talbot. C'mon. You know me. I'm not freaking out on you. I'm just onto what looks -- alright looked 
-- like a good lead. You're the one who taught me how to do all this. You're the one who taught me to keep pushing and pushing... 
He still looks at her with a penetrating glance.         She looks back at him. 
JESSE David. There's nothing else. Nothing is 'beguiling' me, alright? Nothing. C'mon. 
He gazes at her as she downs her whole coffee, registering her strong denial. He smiles at her, forcefully changes the mood. 
TALBOT Alright.   Just checking... 
Jesse starts out. Looking down at papers on his desk, Talbot calls out, almost casually... 
TALBOT Well, all I can say is you're really lucky you're not lying dead in a gutter with two holes on your neck. 
JESSE I'd be even luckier if that damn picture came out... (stops in her tracks, turns back, gazes at him, amazed) Wait a second. So you do believe me? You do think it's a vampire coven. 
(CONTINUED) 
48   CONTINUED:    (2)                                           48 
TALBOT (looks up, eyes sparkling) Yes. But not exactly for the reasons you think. Though your research is top-notch of course... (smiles) Come back here. I'm gonna show you something. 
MARIUS ... From Christ to the Dark Ages to the enlightenment, I've never been able to divine what was coming. That's what keeps me going -- I can't wait to see what human beings are going to do next... 
Lestat nods, taking it in. They pass another bonfire. MUSIC floats through the night. An OLDER MAN, 50, plays balalaika while his daughter, 18, plays violin with great passion. 
MARIUS Who could've predicted the Enlightenment? Or Hannibal and his elephants? 
Marius stops talking, turns. Lestat is no longer beside him. Marius turns back and sees Lestat standing in the shadows, listening to the music. The young woman, sensing something, turns towards Lestat in the shadows as she plays. Marius goes to Lestat, pulls him farther into the shadows. 
MARIUS Careful. 
(CONTINUED) 
55   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             55 
LESTAT But why must we hide, Marius? We are the powerful, we are the immortal. We should walk fearless in the open! 
MARIUS Shhh. The life of a vampire is a life of discretion. We must sleep during the day, when we are vulnerable to the sun. Mortals must never know about us. It is forbidden, for the sake of all our kind. 
LESTAT (gazing at violin player as it sinks in) So I could never know her? 
MARIUS Not unless you wanted to kill her. 
LESTAT (beat, quietly, intensely) So I can never be known? 
MARIUS You're known by me. I granted you that. There are others of our kind... though most are solitary creatures. 
Lestat's eyes fill with some existential realization. 
LESTAT My God... 
MARIUS Forget God. You're no longer in his realm. Now we must leave. 
Relenting, Lestat starts to follow. But the music quickens. Lestat pauses, turns back. As if the music is calling to him. 
The girl still faces into the shadows towards him, and plays fast and wild, her fingers flying. Lestat stands there frozen to the spot. The music pulses through him. He gazes at her fingers, studying their intricate movements intensely... 
(CONTINUED) 
55   CONTINUED:    (3)                                              55 
Impulsively, Lestat goes back to them, hovers, his face still somewhat obscured by the darkness. Lestat starts clapping along to the music, exuberantly. 
The girl and Father smile, nod to him as they play. Marius, in the shadows, is fuming. Lestat's eyes fill with the moment, the girl's vitality. He notices that sitting on the ground by the girl are several instruments. Impulsively, he reaches over, picks up a violin. He studies the girl's playing again, then with his new powers, as if by osmosis... 
Begins to play with exactly her skill, exactly her movements. 
The girl and her Father laugh, delighted with this new musician. Lestat plays along with them, joyful, exhilarated. The girl's fingers fly. Lestat's fingers pick up speed. Faster. Faster. A glittering torrent of notes fly out of his violin as if made of gold. 
Unconsciously, Lestat steps closer to the music, into firelight. The Father and his daughter become less certain, as they gaze at Lestat's strange, pale, glowing skin, the luminous shine of eyes. But Lestat is completely taken by the music, the moment. The Father and the daughter, sensing something strange, stop playing. Lestat looks up. Sees terror in their eyes. The Father is slowly backing away, pointing in horror at Lestat. 
FATHER Fantasma!! Teras!! 
Lightning fast, out of the shadows, steps Marius. He grabs the Father. The girl drops her violin, turns, starts running down the beach to a bonfire in the distance. 
MARIUS Stop her, Lestat! 
Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head no in horror. 
MARIUS You must! 
Lestat hesitates, then runs after the girl. She turns back, sees him getting closer, starts to scream... Lestat is suddenly in front of her with his hand over her mouth, covering her muffled scream.   Her struggle is no use against his strength. Reaching up to her neck, he touches it. He looks into her terrified eyes... 
CUT TO: 
56   EXT. ISLAND'S SOUTH SHORE - NIGHT                              56 
Marius kneels over the body of the Father on the island's deserted shoreline. Tosses him in a boat. Lestat gazes at the lifeless body of the girl. Marius turns to Lestat, furious. 
MARIUS I will not have you put everything at risk! You will mind our laws! 
Picking up Lestat's victim, Marius tosses her into the boat as well. 
MARIUS We remain in the shadows.   To do otherwise is a road to destruction... 
Marius turns to Lestat, who stands in silence, gazing at the girl and her Father. 
MARIUS (quietly) I see you still have a few lingering mortal emotions. They will serve you no good, Lestat. 
Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head, speaks in a horrified whisper... 
LESTAT My God, what have you done to me? 
Lestat turns again toward the bodies of the dead girl and her Father, his face filled with pain, enormous sadness. 
LESTAT (whisper) She's just a child... forgive me. 
57   EXTREME CLOSEUP - LESTAT                                       57 
closes his eyes.   A violent VIOLIN STRAIN as we PULL BACK to see... 
Lestat standing alone in the bedroom, in a deep reverie, playing the girl's violin with incredible passion. His playing picks up speed as he works himself into a Pagnani furor... 
The Punk Vampire pulls down her collar. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #1 Don't see any marks. 
JESSE You haven't seen the rest of my body. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #2 Is that an invitation? 
Jesse finds herself surrounded by the three Vampires. She shakes her head, too frightened to get out a response. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #3 So, where's your host? 
JESSE My host... oh he's here somewhere. 
She peers into the darkness, starts moving towards the door... 
Finds herself blocked by Punk Vampire #2. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #2 Your host. What's his name? 
Jesse looks around, trying not to panic. Pale faces, pale eyes stare at her. A long, terrible pause... Suddenly -- 
JESSE Marius... 
72   HOODED FIGURE                                                   72 
leans forward, surprised, studies this strange mortal, fascinated. 
73   BACK TO SCENE                                                   73 
PUNK VAMPIRE #1 Sorry.   Don't know the guy. 
The Punk Vampires laugh.     Jesse desperately tries to cover her terror. 
(CONTINUED) 
73   CONTINUED:                                                 73 
JESSE Marius has the blood of the ancients flowing in his veins. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #2 There aren't any ancients left. They all turned to dust... 
JESSE That's a myth. Marius is around here somewhere... 
Jesse again heads for the door. But Punk Vampire #1 has appeared in front of her. She stares at him, terrified. 
JESSE You... you really should meet him. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #1 And why is that? 
Jesse watches the other Punk Vampires slowly begin to close in on her. As she speaks, she slowly edges to the door... 
JESSE Because... because... he's wise, a philosopher... he asks the big questions. Like how are you going to get through eternity? It's easier for us mortals. Life is brief, but for you... 
She inches toward the door, desperately stalling. Their white faces gleam menacingly as they close in. She struggles to get the words out... 
JESSE I mean... what can you really do with immortality besides just slip from one day to the next, trapped in a void of meaninglessness, relieved only by your next victim? How do you not give in to despair and just wither away from boredom, hopelessness? 
The Punk Vampires pause, staring at her, as her words sink in. The hooded figure leans forward revealing his face... 
It is Lestat. He stares at Jesse, amazed. Jesse glances desperately at the door. It's just a few feet away now. 
(CONTINUED) 
73   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             73 
JESSE You know, it's like they say -- the more things change, the more they stay the same. For you that's forever, right? 
All around her, vampires are turning to look. The Punk Vampires stare at her, eyes narrowing. Jesse is now inches from the door. She can barely breathe. Punk Vampire #1 gazes at her, his confusion suddenly turning to anger. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #1 You know, you're really a downer... 
He bares his fangs. Jesse bolts out the door... PAN ACROSS vampire faces staring after Jesse TO Lestat who gazes at her, absolutely entranced. He watches the Punk Vampires head after Jesse. 
CUT TO: 
74   EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT                                            74 
Jesse hurries up the alley. Breaks into a run. But the three Punk Vampires from the bar have somehow gotten outside. They land in front of her, beside her, behind her. Heart racing, she shakes with fear. They close in, smiling. 
PUNK VAMPIRE #3 Now this isn't gonna hurt.    You might even enjoy it... 
He runs his hand up and down her body. Jesse starts to shake. She breaks out in a cold sweat. The others grin. He picks her up by the throat. Her legs flail in the air... 
Suddenly, the two vampires turn and hiss like cats. Jesse hits the flagstones hard with a grunt. She gasps for air, looks up as the vampires are hurled out of the alley by an invisible force. Jesse alone, turns, still woozy. Finds herself staring at... 
Lestat... 
Jesse's eyes open wide, entirely stunned. 
He drinks her in with his eyes, marking the soft paleness of her skin, her long, red hair, the flush on her cheeks, her pulsing jugular. 
LESTAT Talamasca's been following me for years. I've never known one to be so brave. Or is it just foolish? 
JESSE I... I'm only an apprentice. 
He waves her off, dismissive. 
LESTAT Go. I'm through with you. Your kind never satisfies my thirst. 
He turns, walks away. Jesse lets out a sigh of relief, then stares after him. She hesitates, then suddenly calls out: 
JESSE Does anything, Lestat? 
A pause in his gait. But he keeps walking away.       Jesse hesitates again, but still calls out. 
JESSE I mean, what's the point of coming into the light if not to have someone really know you? 
But he keeps going.    She takes one last chance -- 
JESSE You want the world to see you're real, don't you, Lestat? Don't you? Well, here I am! 
Suddenly Lestat spins. Stares at the fragile mortal girl risking everything. Flash. Jesse gasps. 
He now stands right before her. He grabs her, pulls her to him close, tight, hard. He could just snap her neck and be done with it. 
(CONTINUED) 
74   CONTINUED:    (5)                                                74 
LESTAT You better just stick to your books, Talamascan. 'Cause you have it all wrong. I love all this. I delight in it. The dark, dreary world I went to sleep in has burnt itself out and been replaced by the 20th Century -- can you imagine my joy at waking up to discover such a world? It has outdistanced my wildest dreams of it. I scream of good and evil, and mortals stand and cheer. I adore being back in action... every moment, every single drop of it! Now consider yourself exceedingly lucky and go! 
He pushes her away.       She gasps, humbled by his physical power. 
She retrieves her rucksack. Starts away. As she reaches the end of the alley, she pauses, takes a breath, turns back, daring everything. 
JESSE Lestat! 
He turns back, stares at her, astonished. 
JESSE There's something you left out of your diary. 
LESTAT (amazed) What? 
JESSE (stares right into his eyes) You kept her violin, didn't you? 
A beat, then Lestat shakes his head, laughs at the absurdity of what she's saying. But Jesse is undaunted. 
JESSE Hey, it's okay. I understand... (softly) After all, it's only human. 
(CONTINUED) 
74   CONTINUED:    (6)                                              74 
That stops him. Their eyes bore into each other again. Electric. Then Lestat hisses at her, the inhuman sound filling the alley. Lestat lunges, fangs bared. Jesse screams. Turns. Runs. Finds herself -- 
EXT. BUSY STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
In the midst of traffic on a busy street.     People walking by. 
JESSE Jesus Christ. 
She stands there a moment, happy, amazed to be alive. Then it sinks in. She realizes -- Lestat let her go. 
She glances back at the alley, but Lestat is gone. 
She brings her finger to her mouth, slowly sticks it in, tastes her own blood, shivers with fear -- and something else -- desire. 
What she doesn't see is... 
Lestat in the shadows, silently watching her. He gazes at her youth, her bright eyes, her daring, her mortal passion. She has affected him. 
He watches as she turns and runs away. 
CUT TO: 
75   INT. LESTAT'S HOUSE (LONDON) - NIGHT                           75 
The CAMERA TRACKS WITH two young GROUPIES as they walk through the lavish palace. 
GROUPIE #2 I heard that Lestat keeps all these girls in all his wine cellars, and it's really nice, and they give you food and cable and weed. 
GROUPIE #1 Oh, please... 
GROUPIE #2 That's what I heard. But you have to let him suck you on your neck whenever he wants. Doesn't sound too bad. 
(CONTINUED) 
75   CONTINUED:                                                   75 
GROUPIE #1 (grins) We've done worse. 
GROUPIE #2 (giggling) Damn straight... Hey, do you remember that cute guy's name at the Kid Rock concert? The one behind the bathroom. 
GROUPIE #1 C'mon, don't you want to have some fun? 
(CONTINUED) 
77   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             77 
She reaches for his belt. But he recoils at the touch and slides off the couch onto the floor with grace. 
LESTAT Don't do that. 
GROUPIE #1 (giggling) Are you ticklish? 
LESTAT (deadpan) I'm very ticklish. 
The Second Groupie giggles as well... 
GROUPIE #2 Hey, you ever been tickled by four hands at once? Hey, can you take both us, Lestat? What'd'ya think? 
And at once they both start after Lestat on all fours to tickle him. He gazes at them, torn, then laughs at the sight and gets down on... 
All fours as well as he leads them around the room in a childish game. 
LESTAT I don't know.     Let's see. 
They try to tickle him but he stays just a few feet ahead of them the whole time. The girls giggle as they pursue... 
Lestat crawling just   ahead of them across the floor and... Up the wall.    The teenagers keep giggling as they watch him ascend the   wall like a spider. They can't believe what they're   seeing as... 
Lestat reaches the wall's top and now crawls upside-down across the ceiling. The girls begin to giggle and half-cry... as they arch their necks all the way back to see... Lestat crawling down the opposite wall. The girls sit open-mouthed with terror as Lestat reaches the ground -- 
He heads straight for them. 
The girls begin to scream... SCREAMS CONTINUE OVER... 
BLACKNESS. 
78   INT. CORRIDOR - SAME TIME                                      78 
CLOSE ON Jesse, her face bright, walking quietly, talking intensely on a cell phone. 
JESSE You're right, David. The journal has everything in it. 
TALBOT (V.O.) I knew you'd appreciate its scientific significance. 
JESSE David, listen... (struggles a moment) I'm going to Los Angeles for the concert. 
TALBOT (V.O.) What?   You are not! I forbid it. 
JESSE David, I... I talked to him... Look I'm sorry. But I... I have to see what's out there with my own eyes. I'm onto something. I just don't know what yet... I have to find out... 
79   INT. STUDY - ON TALBOT                                         79 
Holding the phone, stunned.   He leans forward, speaks intensely, his face grave. 
TALBOT Jesse, you listen to me very, very carefully now. You are no longer seeing things clearly. Your emotions are clouding things. 
80   BACK TO JESSE                                                  80 
JESSE It's not emotion. It's instinct... I'll return when I have my findings. Good-bye. 
TALBOT (V.O.) (angry) Jesse, wait! 
She hangs up. Can't quite believe what she's doing. REVEAL Jesse is heading for a boarding gate at Heathrow airport. She hands over the ticket, boards the plane. 
81   DAVID TALBOT                                                   81 
in his inner sanctum. He looks at all the paintings. His neat, protected world. It's as if Marius is taunting him. He slams his fist down in fury. Stares at the rising dust. 
82   INT. PLANE - NIGHT                                             82 
Jesse puts on headphones, listens to LESTAT'S MUSIC.   As she opens the journal, LESTAT'S MUSIC DISSOLVES INTO VIOLIN... 
83   FLASHBACK - INT. VILLA - BEDROOM - LESTAT                      83 
Lestat standing alone in the bedroom in a deep reverie, playing the violin, with incredible passion. 
His playing picks up speed, the bow bending across the strings with a maestro's speed and precision. 
LESTAT (V.O.) Yes, Marius was impressed with my thirst for knowledge... But it 
turned out that there was such a thing as knowing too much. There were things Marius was not yet ready to teach me... and Marius and I parted ways. 
Suddenly, the bow flies out of his hand and slides across the floor, jamming itself under an old bookcase. Lestat comes out of his spell, walks across the room to the bookcase, bends down to cleave the bow out from under it. Having difficulty, he pushes back an old rug on the floor when he sees something... 
Carved into one of the floorboards is an Egyptian eye with a hole dug out of its iris. Stepping aside, he realizes he is standing on a manhole. A beat ON Lestat as he thinks... Poking his finger through the hole of the Egyptian eye, he lifts the manhole to reveal a steep set of steps leading down into the villa's basement. 
LESTAT Marius! 
No answer. Lestat looks around wondering what to do. Taking a candelabra off the table, he ventures down the stairs, peering down into the darkness. 
84   INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - SECRET STAIRCASE - NIGHT                84 
MARIUS She made you quite powerful. (withdrawing a saber from its sheath) Don't make me use this! 
Lestat still struggles.       The manacles strain. 
LESTAT Marius, please, just one more time. I felt the sun. The light, Marius, the light! 
Suddenly pressing the knife to Lestat's throat -- 
MARIUS Lestat, listen to me! I have watched over Akasha and her King for 2000 years! They must never awaken! 
Lestat stares up at him. 
MARIUS Akasha and her King nearly drank this earth dry when they ruled over Egypt. They drank until they lost their will to drink. They became living statues. And yet Akasha still sustains the life force of all vampires. It is believed what happens to her, happens to all of us. 
Lestat gazes up at him, taking it in.       Marius moves slowly away. 
(CONTINUED) 
91   CONTINUED:    (2)                                                91 
MARIUS If she were ever to rise, she would again desiccate the earth! She has no respect for anything except the taste of blood. Immortal and human alike... 
Lestat roars and struggles against his manacles. 
LESTAT You'll not stop me... 
Marius stares at him, shocked. 
MARIUS I hear her blood in your voice... In all the years I've cared for them, not once have they moved... 
LESTAT Until tonight. And she chose me! Me! Never you! You'll not stop me! 
Marius moves at super-speed, grabs Lestat by the neck, and pins him down. 
MARIUS You are part of a great coven! You take responsibility for your kind! 
LESTAT (snarls) I must have more! 
Lestat, lost, looks at Marius, his eyes intoxicated with Akasha's blood. Marius steps back. Looks at his fledgling with great sadness, anger, disappointment. 
MARIUS I chose you for your bravery, but I was wrong. You know only selfishness. I can no longer trust you... It gives me no pleasure to look upon what I have created. 
Marius turns his back on Lestat.     Lestat stares after him. 
92   INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - NEXT DAY                                 92 
THROUGH the balcony we see the last warm colors of the sunset vanish into the blue of night. Lestat awakens, his manacles removed. He stretches, shakes his head, as if clearing his head, but something causes him to stop... Something has changed. Marius's paints have gone. Some of his paintings remain, but his easel and paint boxes are removed, leaving splattered outlines on the faded marble floor. 
LESTAT Marius! 
No response. 
93   INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - SECRET STAIRCASE                         93 
Lestat runs down the staircase, which is dark except for the candelabra in his hand. 
94   INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - UNDERGROUND SANCTUARY                    94 
Lestat throws open the doors and enters to find... Akasha and Enkil have been taken, as have the thrones and most of the royal paraphernalia. 
LESTAT Marius!    Please! 
95   EXT. MARIUS'S VILLA/BEACH - NIGHT                              95 
Lestat runs down the beach, the sand showing no footprints. 
LESTAT (V.O.) Many times since, I have called to Marius. I howled into the night in loneliness and pain. 
Lestat screams into the darkness, filled with despair, grief. He disappears off into the night. 
LESTAT (V.O.) But there was no answer -- just the endless procession of days, months, years... My teacher left me to my darkest lesson -- that in the end, we are alone. 
Lestat looks up from feeding on a mortal. Wipes the blood from his mouth, gazes into the dark night. 
96    INT. PLANE - NIGHT (PRESENT)                                   96 
Jesse closes the journal, her eyes wide with the new knowledge of Lestat's past. She sits there a moment, speechless, then stares out at the vast, black night. 
TILT DOWN TO: 
97    EXT. HOLLYWOOD SIGN (LOS ANGELES) - NIGHT                      97 
SUPERIMPOSE:    LOS ANGELES 
PAN DOWN to Lestat standing on the edge of a very high fence high above the sparkling lights of downtown, gazing into the dark night. The fence encircles his Hollywood Hills home, a high-tech modern version of a medieval fortress of steel and glass, hidden deep in the canyon, his only neighbors, chaparral and coyotes. 
Lestat closes his eyes as if listening to something. As we PULL BACK again, and RISE UP INTO the sky, a LESTAT SONG begins to play and magically we are in the MUSIC and with a visual splash we are... MOVING SWIFTLY ACROSS the globe with the MUSIC -- as we CUT ACROSS the world INTO the west and INTO... The night fallen over Asia where we soon find ourselves in... 
98    ASIAN FACTORY                                                  98 
where LESTAT'S MUSIC plays for the evening       shift over a sweatshop BOOM BOX. 
116   LESTAT                                                        116 
bolts up   and looks around the room to see... nobody. Lestat's   instincts are as alive as they could ever be as he scans   the room with all his powers, and to his utter surprise   finally sees... 
117   WIDER                                                         117 
A painting leans against a wall, turned front-side-over. Lestat gets out of his coffin and goes over to the painting with trepidation. He turns it over and then smiles to himself. It is a portrait of Lestat as a rocker. The hand and style are unmistakable. 
LESTAT (whisper) Marius...! 
118   INT. LESTAT'S MANSION - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION       118 
Lestat bursts out the doors of his bedroom and looks down into the living room. Marius sits on a couch, still dressed in red velvet, studying the Rolling Stone with Lestat on the cover. 
MARIUS Lestat. 
(CONTINUED) 
118   CONTINUED:                                                 118 
Marius looks up. The two vampires regard each other for a long moment. Lestat is overcome with conflicting emotions. Guarded smiles rise to their faces. 
MARIUS It is good to see you, Lestat. 
LESTAT And you. Still wearing the old fashions, I see. 
MARIUS Old habits die hard. 
LESTAT How did you manage to slip through the 1950s in red velvet? 
MARIUS I slept. 
LESTAT Don't think you missed much. 
MARIUS Elvis. 
LESTAT Elvis, yes. 
MARIUS (holding up the Rolling Stone) You're bigger than he is now. 
LESTAT I'd say a few pounds lighter. Though, if you ever catch me wearing a white jumpsuit, you have my permission to slice off my head. 
MARIUS If someone doesn't get to you first. 
Lestat grins, feeling Marius's disapproval. 
LESTAT Live and let live. 
MARIUS If it were only so simple, my son. 
(CONTINUED) 
118   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             118 
LESTAT (a beat) How did you find me? 
MARIUS You forget. We ancients have powers no ordinary vampires possess... And I know you. I remembered how you admired the medieval fortresses in the hilltowns of Lyon. (gestures to house) All you're missing is the moat and the cannons... which you may need. 
Lestat doesn't want to hear it. 
LESTAT Come, let me show you what it means to live in the light. 
119   EXT. SUNSET BLVD. - CONTINUOUS ACTION                         119 
Lestat and Marius sit perched on a giant billboard advertising Lestat's concert. Down below, Sunset Strip is filled with Goths, club hoppers, HONKING CARS, a traffic jam. 
MARIUS (sarcastic) Impressive. Reminds me of mad old Druids running around chanting in the forest. Very primitive stuff. 
LESTAT Out there. My fans. Thousands and thousands. They worship me. Millions of arms reach out to embrace, beg me to come into their lives. 
MARIUS It's what you've always wanted. 
LESTAT With all my black little heart. 
MARIUS Do you think of anyone but yourself? 
(CONTINUED) 
119   CONTINUED:                                                  119 
LESTAT I only have myself. 
MARIUS It may be time to get ready for some company. 
LESTAT What's that supposed to mean? 
MARIUS Your music's woken a very old friend... 
Lestat looks at Marius, trying to understand. 
MARIUS Can't you hear it? Or is the applause all you can hear now? 
CLOSE ON HIS PUZZLED FACE 
He turns... 
She's dancing across the floor now. Vampire Lover's smile is not so friendly now. He steps toward her, determined... She moves behind him. Her body pressed up tight against his. He smiles, shudders with a rush of desire. All the other vampires watch, envious. Her lips brush his neck, her hands run up and down his body pausing on his chest. He reaches for her. She kisses him just as he kissed the mortal girl. On Vampire Lover's face, pure pleasure... 
AKASHA Then again, you could always do this... 
Akasha sinks her fangs into his neck and at the same time, plunges her hand down. We can't see where... We STAY ON Vampire Lover's face as Akasha disappears FROM FRAME. The sound of BONE SNAPPING, the SQUISH of RIPPING FLESH. LOUD SUCKING. A look of horror appears on Vampire Lover's face. Akasha REAPPEARS. In her hand, she now holds... 
(CONTINUED) 
125   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             125 
... his dripping heart.    She brings it to her lips, sucks again thirstily... 
Vampire Lover gurgles as she sucks the heart to a dry husk, then tosses it. She turns back to Vampire Lover, his face frozen in a grotesque mask. She laughs, drops him unceremoniously to the floor... 
Akasha turns to face the rest of the horrified vampires. They begin to back away. But the DOOR LOCKS itself LOUDLY. 
Akasha sways again to the music, moving faster now, as if refreshed. 
AKASHA Turn up the music! 
The terrified barman quickly COMPLIES. 
AKASHA (smiles, to herself) Oh, I do love the 21st Century. 
Akasha turns to the terrified barman again, pulls him over the bar and attacks him as if she were just reaching for a snack. He flails but is overwhelmed by her strength... 
The Vampire Girl who Jesse saw vanish with the Yuppie, flies towards Akasha, knife raised, but Akasha just turns... Suddenly there is an EXPLOSION of FLAMES. The Vampire Girl screams as she is consumed. The piano player and guitar player go up in flames... 
All hell breaks loose as the other vampires run for the door. The lock won't budge and it's too late anyway as the flames overwhelm them... 
And THROUGH the flames, we see Akasha smiling, now sucking on the Punk Vampire's aorta like it's a straw. She tosses his body, her long tongue slowly licks her bloody, thirsty lips. She strides out through the flames. In a whispery, sing-song voice. 
AKASHA 
Lesta-at... come out, come out wherever you are. 
126   EXT. HOLLYWOOD SIGN - NIGHT                                    126 
Marius stands in the hills by the Hollywood sign, gazing down, his brow furrowed, at Lestat's fortress-like mansion hidden in the canyon below. The WIND BLOWS the trees, bushes. Marius turns, uneasy, sensing something, peers into the shadows cast by the brightly-lit sign. Marius stares as a figure emerges from the shadows. 
It is Mael, a vampire, his face hidden in a cloak. 
MAEL Marius, you've broken your oath. You were to watch over Akasha and Khayman. You are a great disappointment to me. 
Marius looks up to see all the Ancients now stepping from the shadows. KHAYMAN, the desert vampire, in Egyptian dress along with PANDORA, the dark-haired beauty in her sari, ARMAND, the boy sage, in his Mesopotamian robes. Last, MAHARET steps from her grand door. She is beautiful with long red hair, alabaster skin. 
MARIUS Pandora, Armand, it's been a long time. Khayman, Maharet, to what do I owe this honor? 
KHAYMAN You have been summoned because of your errant child... 
Khayman crosses to the edge, peers menacingly into the distance at Lestat's house. 
PANDORA (giving deep, sexy laugh) He's quite the devil, isn't he? 
ARMAND His music mocks us, Pandora! 
PANDORA His music moves my blood. 
ARMAND Keep your amorous thoughts to yourself. His music is a threat to all vampires. We will let the covens dismember him at his concert. 
(CONTINUED) 
126   CONTINUED:                                                  126 
MAEL Yes.   It will set an example. 
MARIUS I don't see how this solves things. This isn't thought through. 
KHAYMAN Marius, we understand your affection for Lestat, but your duty is to us! 
He gazes again down at Lestat's house with a threatening glance. Turns to Marius with a look of warning. 
KHAYMAN We could always get rid of him right now. 
MAEL No. We will contact the covens. Let them know we condone the slaying. It will be better for all to see. 
Marius, with a tortured expression, gazes at Mael. Maharet steps up. 
MAHARET Wait. Never mind Lestat!   We have greater problems... 
MARIUS (stepping up) Maharet is right. It is Akasha we face now. 
PANDORA (joyous) Is it true, Maharet?   Has our Queen really risen! 
MAHARET Don't be so happy, Pandora. I knew Akasha when she walked this earth. I was her slave. I am now her enemy. I know what she is capable of. 
(CONTINUED) 
Roger now stands there, a nervous look on his face. 
ROGER The... girls you asked for, Lestat. They're here, in the guest wing. 
LESTAT Ah.   Yes. 
Lestat gazes in that direction, pensive. 
ROGER I was uh... just gonna go catch a movie at the Chinese. I don't suppose you'd all want to... 
Lestat smiles at the clumsy attempt to protect the girls. 
LESTAT No, thank you, Roger.   We'll entertain ourselves. 
As Roger leads Lestat to the guest room, he can hear FAINT GIGGLING. Lestat turns back to the night. The PULSE of Akasha still ECHOES in his ears. 
130   INT. GUEST WING - JUST AFTER                                 130 
Roger and Lestat walk in.   A young GROUPIE giggles nervously. 
GROUPIE #3 Oh my God, it's him!    It's really him... 
She turns in paroxysm of excitement to the girl next to her. Lestat stares, taken aback. It is Jesse. Dressed in Goth gear. Jesse stares back at Lestat brazenly. A long moment. 
LESTAT Perhaps you would like a tour of the place... first. 
(CONTINUED) 
130   CONTINUED:                                                    130 
GROUPIE #3 Oh yeah, wow, we'd love that. 
LESTAT Roger... would you be so kind? 
ROGER (surprised, relieved) Sure. Right this way, girls. 
As they start off, Lestat puts up his hand, points to Jesse. 
LESTAT Roger. Not that one.   Leave her to me... 
The other groupie pouts, disappointed. She goes out with Roger. Lestat turns to Jesse... considers her... 
LESTAT You must be very keen to die. 
Jesse's heart pounds with terror. 
LESTAT The Talamascans have become quite stealthy. I didn't know infiltration was quite their style. 
JESSE It's not. I... I came on my own. 
He stares at her, taking her in. 
LESTAT How did you find me? 
JESSE I've been tracking your manager for days... (gesturing to her Goth outfit) Then I figured out you simply have to look the part. 
LESTAT Clever librarian... You should know, based on all your research, that groupies don't ever find their way out of here again. 
(CONTINUED) 
130   CONTINUED:    (2)                                              130 
JESSE I'm not a groupie... 
Lestat gazes at Jesse's pulsing jugular.      He steps closer. 
LESTAT Then why are you following me? What do you want? 
JESSE (terrified, in a whisper) Are you granting wishes? 
LESTAT (smiles, in a whisper playing    with her) Last wishes. What's yours? 
JESSE Show me what it's like to be you. That's my last wish. Grant it, Lestat. 
He stares at her, feeling some connection with this strange mortal girl. She stares at him with penetrating eyes. He again finds himself drawn to her. Tries to fight it. 
LESTAT (turning away) I don't have time for this. 
JESSE All a vampire has is time. 
LESTAT Maybe not. 
JESSE (softly) Right. The covens are coming for you. (softly) I understand why you're doing it. You have to be who you are, no matter what happens. 
He turns, gazes at her.       She steps forward. 
(CONTINUED) 
130   CONTINUED:    (3)                                             130 
JESSE But how are you spending what may be your last night on Earth, Lestat? As you always have... Alone. 
Lestat staggers. Breaking their stare, he accepts her gift, lapping up the overspill and then onto the wound itself. Lestat closes her eyes... He comes up to her face, brushing his lips against her cheek. She shivers... 
LESTAT (groans) Your blood... 
JESSE (murmurs) Do you like it? 
(CONTINUED) 
132   CONTINUED:    (2)                                              132 
LESTAT (losing himself) Yes... 
He comes down to her slender neck.     Stares at the soft, pulsing skin. He bares his fangs. 
JESSE (whispering, overcome) Do it to me... Please... With your blood I'll know you... 
133   CLOSE ON LESTAT                                                133 
He can't help himself.    He moves to Jesse's white neck... closer... closer... 
JESSE I'll know everything... 
But suddenly her words catch him... His head flails as he tries to stop his natural impulse. Lestat lets out a desperate cry and throws her aside. Jesse gazes at him, surprised. He looms over her, angry. 
LESTAT You want to know everything. You want to see what it's like. Then come! I'll show you. 
134   EXT. GRIFFITH PARK - NIGHT                                     134 
Lestat and Jesse quietly move among the trees. Lestat stops on a dime -- senses tuned. He looks into the dark. Jesse is about to speak when Lestat raises his finger to her lips and then points at... A couple of lovers moving across the meadow. They sit on a park bench. The woman giggles drunkenly. Jesse watches and gasps as she realizes the male lover is a vampire. Lestat moves forward. Jesse gingerly follows. 
Taking his lover in his arms the vampire begins to bite her neck... Lestat looks over at Jesse who watches, fascinated and disturbed. The vampire senses another's presence -- stops and turns to reveal his vampire eyes shining in the dark. Lestat steps into the halo of a street lamp and hisses. Sensing Lestat's power, the vampire hisses and instantly -- the vampire is gone. Jesse turns to Lestat but he has disappeared, too. Spinning around again she sees... Lestat hovering over the mortal woman who is still in a swoon. Checking to see that the vampire is gone, Jesse moves closer to the bench. (CONTINUED) 
134   CONTINUED:                                                    134 
JESSE Is she alright? 
Lestat looks up to face her, revealing his blood-stained lips. Jesse reflexively looks away. 
LESTAT Come closer, Jesse. You want to see? You want to know? 
JESSE Lestat, no! 
Lestat's expression turns cold as ice -- he arches his back like a great cat and goes in for the kill. The woman's body convulses... Jesse watches in horror as... the woman's hands clutch at Lestat, her back stiffens... finally her legs relax in an obscene parody of orgasm. Jesse gasps, backs away. Lestat finishes and, wiping his mouth, approaches Jesse. 
LESTAT You see now? Are you ready?     Now do you want it?! 
He gazes into her eyes, finding himself desperately wanting her to say yes. The horror, the revulsion in Jesse's face says it all. 
LESTAT No.   Of course you don't. 
She backs away from him, now terrified. Something's changed in his eyes. They are cold, blank. 
LESTAT Well I didn't grant your final wish. (shakes his head) It was an impossible wish to begin with. You see, I am unknowable. 
His eyes still as death, he starts moving away. 
JESSE Lestat!    Wait! 
Lestat turns toward her suddenly, grabs her forcefully, pulls her into his arms, gazes into her eyes. 
LESTAT Good-bye, Talamascan. 
(CONTINUED) 
134   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             134 
Jesse closes her eyes in terror, knowing her life is about to be over. 
Then Jesse reaches for her mouth as if she were touched by something when... the IMAGE of Lestat's lips kissing her lips flashes by in VAMPIRE TIME as... Jesse's face is completely still in HUMAN TIME. As her hand drops, she realizes what just happened. And with that, Lestat disappears. She stares into the night. There's a SWISH and the sound of RUSHING AIR. Jesse turns, screams, backs away. It's not Lestat standing there at all but Mael, the Druid vampire. With great speed he glides towards her, envelops Jesse in his cloak, muffling her cries... WHOOSH. 
CUT TO: 
135   OMITTED                                                       135 
137   STARING EYE                                                   137 
PULL BACK to reveal a porcelain doll, beautiful, perfect but unsettling. We TRACK ACROSS rows and rows of dolls from different eras. TRACK PAST the billowing floor-to- ceiling curtains to reveal Jesse -- still an adult, but lying awake in bed just as she had as a little girl. Jesse gets out of bed, trapped in her own childhood memory. Is she dreaming now? 
138   INT. DESERT MANSION - HALLWAY - NIGHT                         138 
Making her way down a long hall she passes an amazing array of medieval tapestries. 
139   FLASHBACK - INT. HALLWAY                                      139 
Jesse as a child picking at the thread of a wall-hanging in a large room. 
140   BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT)                                       140 
She stands wondering -- eyes moving back and forth with rapid thoughts when... She sees a door at the end of the hall. Walking a little faster now, she draws toward it as... 
141   FLASHBACK - INT. HALLWAY                                       141 
MAHARET I know, but it is not who you are, not who you are meant to be. You have found that out now. 
Jesse sits on a stone bench, confused.       Maharet smiles sadly, feeling Jesse's inner turmoil. 
JESSE Lestat's all I can think about... I felt like I belonged with him. Now I know why... 
(CONTINUED) 
144   CONTINUED:    (3)                                             144 
Maharet sits beside her, speaks emphatically. 
MAHARET Jesse, you must forget about him. You must trust me... 
JESSE (gazes up at her a long moment) I missed you so much, Aunt Maharet. 
MAHARET Me too. 
Just then the gloom of the pre-dawn's light begins to illuminate the windows of the great hall. 
MAHARET You will go home to London in the morning. 
Jesse holds Maharet's eyes. 
JESSE But this is my home. This is where I belong. Why do you want to get rid of me so quickly? 
Maharet touches her face gently. 
MAHARET Now is not the time to be here... 
The light is getting brighter.    Maharet stands. 
MAHARET You were seeking answers. Now you have found them. The family is who you are. 
Maharet goes to Jesse, wraps her arms tight around Jesse. Despite the coldness of her skin, Jesse warms to the embrace, closes her eyes, holds her tight. Then, beaten by the sun, Maharet stands, exits into the shadows, turns back to Jesse, gazes at her. 
MAHARET You will go home to London tomorrow. 
145   INT. LESTAT'S ROOM - NIGHT                                     145 
Lestat stands by his bed, playing the ancient violin... a long mournful note. He stops a moment, lost in his thoughts. A flash of the first morning light reflects off the ancient wood. Lestat puts the violin away. A tear of blood trickles down his cheek. His face is filled with sadness at what will never be. A word escapes from his lips. 
LESTAT (whisper) Jesse. 
Lestat draws the curtains and enters his sanctum where his coffin sits in the safety of darkness. 
146   EXT. MAHARET'S DESERT MANSION - DAY                            146 
The sun breaks through the date palms. 
147   INT. MANSION - JUST AFTER                                      147 
Jesse moves down the hallway past paintings of vampires. She pauses at one of Maharet. As Jesse shifts, the glass over the painting catches Jesse's reflection. Jesse moves slowly until her face just covers Maharet's. In the reflection, Jesse's eyes now glow with Maharet's luminescence. Jesse stares a long, long moment. 
148   INT. MANSION - JUST AFTER                                      148 
Jesse sits at a desk, writing a note, torment, confusion on her face. 
JESSE (V.O.) Dear Aunt Maharet, my whole life, I've felt... kind of crazy I guess, different from everyone, and now I know why... You say I now know who I am meant to be... I have found my answers. You are right... 
She takes a deep breath. 
149   EXT. MAHARET'S DESERT MANSION - FRONT ENTRANCE -               149 CONTINUOUS ACTION 
Jesse moves to the front entrance, gazes at the walls surrounding the front gate. 
(CONTINUED) 
149   CONTINUED:                                                   149 
JESSE (V.O.) I know you want me to be a regular human girl... but I'm not. I can't be... 
She looks back at the house, then quickly slips out the gate. 
150   EXT. MAHARET'S DESERT MANSION - DAY                          150 
Maharet's sprawling compound sits alone in the empty desert. Nothing for as far as the eye can see. 
JESSE (V.O.) Lestat is my destiny... I know that now. I love you, Aunt Maharet. Good-bye. 
Jesse walks away from the house. Coming to a highway, she reads a sign -- "DEATH VALLEY 120 miles." Just then, a VW minibus barrels down the road in Jesse's direction. She sticks out her thumb... The minibus pulls to a stop on the shoulder in a cloud of dust. A VAMPIRE DRIVER leans out the window -- not a real vampire, just a kid with white face-paint and fake fangs. 
VAMPIRE DRIVER Need a ride? 
Jesse peers past the driver to a crowd of Goths and fake vampires. THE VAMPIRE LESTAT BLARES FROM the SPEAKERS. 
JESSE (smiles) Yeah. 
151   EXT. DEATH VALLEY - FROM HIGH ABOVE - DUSK                   151 
We see a line of traffic snake out along a desert road toward a strange red glow rising into the dark night sky. A distant sound of DRUMS BEATING chaotic rhythms is heard. As we FLY CLOSER, the DRUMMING becomes LOUDER and clearer. Until we are RIGHT ABOVE an incredible scene... A mass of people (30,000) gather in a valley of red rock. 
LESTAT You? 
(CONTINUED) 
180   CONTINUED:    (2)                                              180 
AKASHA You thought it was all you? (laughing) You have the ego of a king as well. I know you, Lestat. I know that you crave to have the world at your feet. I have come to give it to you. 
Akasha bites her own lip. Blood trickles slightly across her chin. Lestat stares at the blood, yearns towards it, as the pulse of her blood increases... Lestat looks at it, both wanting and fearful. Wrapping her arms around Lestat, she braces him, licks his face. 
AKASHA Has your tongue lost its taste for blood? 
LESTAT (melting) Never. 
AKASHA But you didn't kill the mortal girl. 
Lestat looks caught. 
AKASHA Instead you kissed her.   Now kiss me. 
(NOTE: Shoot as practical, actor against plain night sky, as much as possible.) Akasha rises above him, hovers over Lestat, letting a single drop of blood spill into his mouth. Lestat levitates above the ground to meet her as... 
Akasha hovers higher, drawing him into the sky until their mouths finally meet and her blood flows freely into him. Lestat pulls away as a great surge of power gathers in him and floods his body with an electric rush. 
AKASHA Be my King. Forget about everything else. 
Lestat looks straight at Akasha, his face flushed.    His eyes are empty of everything except her blood. 
AKASHA What's your answer? 
(CONTINUED) 
180   CONTINUED:    (3)                                            180 
Lestat looks at her and then smiles. Akasha's mouth spreads into a smile. Flashes of brilliant light strobe over them as Lestat moves to her, sucks again. There's a powerful rush of WIND that engulfs them as they spin together, detached from time and space. 
181   FLASH CUTS - STOCK FOOTAGE                                   181 
All INTERCUT WITH Akasha's skin, her body taut and arching. Lestat falls back in ecstasy. He shakes out his body and lets out a howl of pleasure -- feels his arms, his chest, his groin as Akasha's blood courses through his veins. Akasha watches and waits. Finally Lestat grins boyishly through bloody teeth and wipes his lips with the back of his hand. 
LESTAT Can we try that again? 
Akasha smiles at him, then laughs a strange laugh, a kind of purr/growl. Lestat gazes at her as the sensual hissing seems to surround him. It is seductive and scary. Lestat steps up, puts a finger to her lips. 
LESTAT Show me the world... 
Akasha's mouth spreads into a smile and she yanks him up into the air and off into the night. 
182   INT. MAHARET DESERT MANSION - NIGHT                          182 
Mael leads Jesse down the hall. She stares ahead at what looks like statues standing in the shadows. Her eyes widen as the statues come to life: Armand, Pandora, Khayman, Marius are talking in hushed tones, gathered before Maharet's "Great Family Tree." CAMERA SWEEPS OVER the endless lines, the rows of names that stretch down the stone wall -- ACROSS the floor, filling room after room. The Ancients all stare, deeply moved. Maharet turns to them. 
MAHARET We see now what Akasha means to do. Rule as Queen again. (pointing to the great family) This is why we must fight Akasha! 
Maharet looks around, determined, challenging each of the immortals. 
(CONTINUED) 
182   CONTINUED:                                                   182 
MAHARET For the sake of all mortals. She must be stopped, or the mortal world will end. 
The Ancients fall silent as they take this in. They gaze again at Maharet's Great Family, humbled for a moment by her life's passion. 
MAEL But is there a way?   We don't know. 
KHAYMAN When she opens herself to give her blood, she is vulnerable. 
MARIUS Then we weaken her. Drain her of almost all her blood, but leave her just one drop. 
MAHARET We can't take that chance.    We must finish her. 
ARMAND If she dies, we all die. 
PANDORA We're damned no matter what happens. 
MAHARET Perhaps. 
Maharet gazes at them, her mind working... Pandora, Khayman, Mael gaze at each other, still uncertain. 
JESSE And what about Lestat? 
MAHARET Lestat has joined with Akasha. He is lost to us now. He is never coming back. 
JESSE I don't believe that. 
CUT TO: 
183   LESTAT                                                         183 
Beaming with a possessed look, his eyes brimming with visions. 
193   INT. MAHARET'S MANSION - GRANDE HALL - NIGHT                    193 
The Ancients are still debating. Suddenly, the whole place begins to shake. (NOTE: Practical shadows not C.G.I.) A shadow passes over the Ancients' faces. 
MARIUS She comes... 
The WINDOWS along one side of the hall EXPLODE with a startling GUST. The Ancient Ones look up to see... Akasha's silhouette looming, dark and foreboding. 
AKASHA My children. It warms my blood to see you all gathered... plotting against me. 
They trade glances and begin to fan out around the room. 
MAHARET Akasha. 
AKASHA Maharet. You will address my King first... 
(CONTINUED) 
193   CONTINUED:                                                       193 
Lestat enters, his possessed eyes showing only evil now. Unable to help herself... 
JESSE Lestat! 
He turns slowly to the corner where she sits.      They lock eyes. Lestat's face stares cold and hard. 
JESSE What has she done to you? 
LESTAT Made me see. 
Taking his arm, Akasha draws Lestat to her. The Ancient Vampires subtly position themselves under the medieval weapons hanging on the walls, as Marius moves toward his son. 
MARIUS Lestat... step aside. 
LESTAT Never.    She is my Queen. 
Marius looks for some recognition in Lestat's eyes. There is none. Maharet turns to Akasha. 
MAHARET Akasha. The world has changed since you reigned. 
AKASHA Then we shall change it back. Humans are animals, brute creatures. Their destruction can only make sense. 
MAHARET We've found other ways to co- exist. 
AKASHA Yes. In the shadows. In silence. In shame. For what? For respect of mortals? They are nothing to us. They are only... food. 
She casts a dangerous eye towards Jesse. Maharet instinctively moves forward to protect her. 
(CONTINUED) 
193   CONTINUED:    (2)                                             193 
AKASHA Poor Maharet. Still trying to hold onto what I took from you. 
Maharet doesn't even flinch. 
MARIUS Akasha, please... 
AKASHA (venomous) You think you can change my will? I'm tired of this discussion. Join me, or die. 
MAHARET I will not. 
MARIUS I will not. 
AKASHA I want to hear it from every one of you. What will it be? 
Akasha scans the faces of the other Ancient Ones, staring deep into their souls. Akasha sees Khayman glance at the family tree. Akasha's eyes blaze with anger. 
AKASHA Don't tell me, you have feelings for these ridiculous mortals! 
She crosses to the family tree, traces the names down to one. Jessica Reeves. Akasha is beyond fury, yet she keeps her temper under control and turns to Lestat. 
AKASHA Do you love me? 
Smiling, she bites her lip, letting a drop of blood glisten there, tempting Lestat. 
LESTAT Yes... 
He draws closer. Jesse stares, mortified. Akasha and Lestat's mouths almost meet when Akasha pulls away. Akasha slowly turns to Jesse. 
AKASHA Prove it. Kill her. 
(CONTINUED) 
193   CONTINUED:    (3)                                               193 
LESTAT She's nothing to me. 
AKASHA Just the same, I'd like you to kill her. For me. (to the Ancients) I've had enough of this 'great family.' It's time to end it. 
Maharet steps between Lestat and Jesse. 
The Ancients are still flung around by Akasha's great strength, but they all hold on, as the thrashing finally begins to subside. The mass of bodies sinks to the ground. The Ancients pull back to reveal that... 
Akasha's skin is deathly blue white.    In horror, she manages to spit out her words. 
AKASHA You kill me, you kill yourselves. 
The Ancient Ones look to each other, uncertain a moment. 
Akasha gazes at them, then turns slowly, fixes her gaze on Lestat. He gazes back at her. 
Suddenly, Akasha takes her chance, rises, her eyes flare green, marshalling the last of her wrath. Lestat cries out in agony as smoke rises from his limbs. 
Fiercely determined, Lestat bites into Akasha's throat, this time for the kill. Akasha sinks her nails into his throat. He hangs on, his teeth deep. They are locked in mortal combat. Akasha slowly sinks to the ground, real fear in her eyes as her strength finally vanishes. 
MAHARET Wait, Lestat! You must stop! 
Lestat pulls away, leaving Akasha hanging in a twisted, unnatural angle. 
They all stare waiting to see what will happen... 
... Maharet moves quickly. She strides over to Akasha and sinks her fangs into Akasha's neck. Akasha struggles but this time she cannot even rise up. Maharet does not stop. A HOWLING sound as if from hell fills the room. 
The Ancient Ones stare at Akasha, step back in awe. Lestat sits up, burned but still alive to see... 
Akasha's skin begins to grow horribly pale, to harden and cake into a chalk. There's no blood left to flow from the gaping holes in Akasha's flesh. She slowly begins to transform back to her frozen statue state. Her skin returning to MARBLE. CRACKS multiply, becoming fissures. Finally, Akasha literally falls to pieces, SMASHING on the stone floor like porcelain. 
A silent moment. The Ancient Ones look at each other, astonished, as they realize they're still "alive." 
(CONTINUED) 
193   CONTINUED:    (7)                                             193 
KHAYMAN (whisper) We survived! 
The Ancients let out relieved hisses. 
But Lestat is only concerned about Jesse. He rushes to her, picks up her lifeless head, takes a dagger from the floor and slices his wrist. He brings the open vein to Jesse's mouth, but she's not moving. Lestat bends down to her ear and whispers. 
LESTAT I left you one drop, my love. Drink deep and live. 
Jesse's lips slightly move and quiver as she tastes the blood. She begins to take the blood inside her and then finally truly drink and revive as Lestat cradles her. She pulls away, gasping. Lestat looks into her eyes. 
JESSE I thought I'd lost you... 
LESTAT Drink, my love. 
Her lips move to his wrist. Lestat strokes her hair, soothes her. Jesse gasps as pain courses through her. Lestat holds her close. She looks up at him, their eyes are locked together. 
LESTAT I will never leave you again. 
He holds her tight in his arms. 
All the Ancients gaze at Lestat, now understanding what he did. 
Slowly Jesse rises, gazes at Lestat, her face pale, her eyes glowing. Then Jesse turns, stares at Maharet. All the Ancients turn, follow her gaze. 
A whiteness is spreading across Maharet's face and skin. Maharet stares at her arms and legs, slowly turning to stone. Jesse goes to her. 
JESSE Maharet... 
(CONTINUED) 
193   CONTINUED:    (8)                                                    193 
MAHARET My child, let me look at you... You are finally happy. It is as it should be now... I will watch over you always. 
Maharet reaches out, embraces Jesse. Then Maharet sinks into a chair and freezes into a statue. 
ARMAND (a reverent whisper) She took Akasha's last drop, took Akasha's death into herself. Behold, our Queen... our new mother... 
The Ancients slowly bow to Maharet. Jesse slowly slips from Maharet's arms. Goes into Lestat's arms. 
JESSE Is she... dead? 
KHAYMAN No, she will live forever. She sleeps. She sleeps, and dreams of us. 
Jesse and Lestat hold onto each other, gazing at Maharet's face. On Maharet's lips is the most content of smiles. Jesse wipes away a tear. 
Marius turns to Lestat.    Their eyes meet.     Then Marius bows at Maharet's feet. 
MARIUS My Queen, I will watch over you always. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
194   EXT. TALAMASCA HEADQUARTERS (LONDON) - EVENING                       194 
The sun has long disappeared as the darkness settles. 
195   INT. TALAMASCA HEADQUARTERS - EVENING                                195 
The shadows creep up the doorway. 
