RAISING ARIZONA 
RAISING ARIZONA 
Screenplay by 
Ethan Coen 
Joel Coen 
OVER BLACK: 
VOICE OVER My name is H. I. McDunnough... 
A WALL 
With horizontal hatch lines. 
VOICE OVER ...Call me Hi. 
A disheveled young man in a gaily colored Hawaiian shirt is launched into frame by someone offscreen. 
He holds a printed paddle that reads "NO. 1468-6 NOV. 29 
The hatch marks on the wall behind him are apparently height markers. 
VOICE OVER ...The first time I met Ed was in the county lock-up in Tempe, Arizona... 
FLASH 
As his picture is taken. 
CLOSEUP 
On the paddle: "NOV. 29 79." 
VOICE OVER ...a day I'll never forget. 
A bellowing male voice from offscreen: 
SHERIFF Don't forget the profile, Ed! 
ANGLE ON THE STILL CAMERA 
It is mounted on a tripod. A pretty young woman in a severe police uniform peers out from behind it. 
WOMAN Turn to the right. 
HI What kind of name is Ed for a pretty thing like you? 
ED Short for Edwinna. Turn to the right! 
HI obliges, but still looks at Ed out of the corner of his eye. 
HI You're a flower, you are. Just a little desert flower. 
FLASH 
On his eye-skewed profile. 
HI Lemme know how those come out. 
LOW ANGLE CELL BLOCK CORRIDOR 
As Hi is escorted away from the camera toward his cell. 
At the far end of the corridor a huge con is sluggishly mopping the floor. 
VOICE OVER I was in for writing hot checks which, when businessmen do it, is called an overdraft. I'm not complainin', mind you; just sayin' there ain't no pancake so thin it ain't got two sides. Now prison life is very structured - more than most people care for... 
INTERCUTTING 
HI'S POV of the MOPPING CON, tracking as he approaches, and the Mopping Con's POV of Hi as Hi approaches. 
VOICE OVER ...But there's a spirit of camaraderie that exists between the men, like you find only in combat maybe... 
The Mopping Con snarls as Hi passes: 
CON Grrrr... 
VOICE OVER ...or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive. 
NEWSREEL FOOTAGE 
A ballplayer connects - THWOCK - for a home run and the crowd roars. 
PRISON HALL 
Panning a circle of men who sit facing each other in folding chairs. The pan starts on Hi. 
VOICE OVER In an effort to better ourselves we were forced to meet with a counselor who tried to help us figure out why we were the way we were... 
At this point the pan has reached the COUNSELOR, an earnest, bearded young man who straddles a folding chair with his arms folded over its back. 
He is addressing one of the Cons: 
COUNSELOR Why do you use the word "trapped"? 
CLOSEUP BLACK CON 
The huge muscle-bound black man with a shaved head is knitting his brow in consternation. 
CON Huh? 
COUNSELOR Why do you say you feel "trapped" in a man's body? 
HI Bill Roberts? 
BUD (barking) No, not that motherscratcher! Bill Parker! Anyway, we're approachin' the wreck, and there's a spherical object arestin' on the highway... 
He pauses to blow and pop a bubble with his chewing gum. 
BUD ...And it don't look like a piece a the car. 
VOICE OVER Mostways the job was a lot like prison, except Ed was waitin' at the end of every day... 
CASHIER'S WINDOW 
Hi is scowling at his paycheck. Behind the barred window a fat cashier grins. 
VOICE OVER ...and a paycheck at the end of every week. 
CASHIER Gummint do take a bite, don't she? 
EXT. TRAILER 
Hi sits in a lawn chair in front of the trailer. Ed sits on his lap, his arms around her. Both are wearing sunglasses, looking at the setting sun. The scene is suffused with a warm yellow light. 
VOICE OVER These were the happy days, the salad days as they say... 
As the sun sets, the light is turning from yellow to amber. Hi and Ed watch, their heads following its slow downward arc. 
VOICE OVER ...and Ed felt that having a critter was the next logical step. It was all she thought about. 
The amber is turning to a more neutral dusky light as the sun has set. Hi and Ed continue to stare at the point where it disappeared. 
VOICE OVER ...Her point was that there was too much love and beauty for just the two of us... 
The dusk is slipping away into darkness. 
VOICE OVER ...and every day we kept a child out of the world was a day he might later regret having missed. 
We are by now holding on pitch black. Crickets chirp. From the darkness: 
ED That was beautiful. 
A CALENDAR 
Ed is crossing off the last day on the calendar before a day circled in red. 
VOICE OVER So we worked at it on the days we calculated most likely to be fruitful... 
INT. TRAILER 
Hi is wearily entering after a long day at work, clutching his lunchpail. 
VOICE OVER ...and we worked at it most other days just to be sure. 
Ed flies into frame and leaps into his arms, covering him with kisses. 
TRAILER BEDROOM 
In each other's arms, Hi and Ed roll over on the bed. 
VOICE OVER Seemed like nothing could stand in our way now... 
We pan with them rolling and continue off them to the night table, on which sits a framed pair of photographs of Hi, probably taken by Ed: One shows him full face, the other in profile. 
EXT. TRAILER TWILIGHT 
Ed sits in a lawn chair knitting a booty. Hi stands in Bermuda shorts and an unbuttoned Hawaiian shirt, hosing down the minuscule patch of front lawn. 
VOICE OVER ...My lawless years were behind me; our child rearin' years lay ahead. 
DUSTY ROAD LEADING UP TO TRAILER DAY 
A squad car, its siren wailing, kicks up dust as it roars into the foreground. 
ADOPTION OFFICE 
Hi and Ed are seated on folding chairs facing an agent's desk. Hi wears a sport coat over his Hawaiian shirt. Ed is in her dress blues. 
HI It's true I've had a checkered past, but Ed here is an officer of the law twice decorated... 
THE AGENT 
Looking, with a dead pan, from the file to Hi. 
HI ...So we figure it kind of evens out. 
His face still deadly neutral, the agent looks back down at the file and unfolds the accordioned rap sheet, revealing it to be a couple feet long. 
VOICE OVER ...But biology and the prejudices of others conspired to keep us childless. 
INT. SQUAD CAR 
On Ed as she stares vacantly out the passenger window. 
VOICE OVER Our love for each other was stronger than ever... 
ON HI 
Driving. He looks from Ed out to the road. 
VOICE OVER ...but I preminisced no return of the salad days. 
TRAILER BATHROOM 
Over Hi's shoulder as he stares listlessly at himself in the mirror, a razor held forgotten in one hand, his face half lathered and half shaved. 
VOICE OVER The pizazz had gone out of our lives. 
The title of the film burns in: "RAISING ARIZONA". A building chord snaps off in a shock cut to: 
SUBURBAN LIVING ROOM EVENING 
Tableau of a couple at home. Nathan Arizona is on the telephone, his stocking feet up on an ottoman. Florence sits reading Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care. 
The living room is dominated by a large oil portrait of Nathan and Florence, gazing out from the wall over the mantelpiece. 
NATHAN (into the phone) Eight hundred leaf tables and no chairs?! You can't sell leaf tables and no chairs! Chairs, you got a dinette set! No chairs, you got dick! I ask my wife she got more sense!... 
TITLE IS SUPERED: 
"THE ARIZONA HOUSEHOLD" 
From somewhere upstairs we hear an infant start to cry. Florence stops reading and looks up at the ceiling. Nathan is oblivious. 
NATHAN ...Miles, all I know is I'm away from the office to have me some kids and everything goes straight to heck! I ain't gonna stand for it! 
Another title is supered below the first: "SEPTEMBER 17, 1985". The baby stops crying and Florence's attention returns to her book. 
VOICE OVER ...Yeah, and if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his ass a-hoppin'! I'm sick of your excuses, Miles! It is now... 
As he throws out his wrist to look at his watch a third title is supered beneath the first two: 8:45 p.m. 
VOICE OVER ...8:45 in the p.m. I'm gonna be down to the store in exactly twelve hours to kick me some butt! 
He starts to replace the receiver but brings it back with an afterthought: 
VOICE OVER ...Or my name ain't Nathan Arizona! 
As he slams the phone into the cradle the titles disappear. Another baby starts crying. Florence looks up at the ceiling. 
NATHAN That sounds like Larry. 
Close on the crying baby as Hi bounces it, gently but desperately. 
HI Shhhh! Shh! Nice baby... 
He starts to lower it back into the crib. The crib is unpainted with the name of each baby burned Bonanza-style into the headboard: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr. Instead of quieting as he is lowered into the crib, the squalling baby only sets off one of his brothers. Hi hurriedly lifts him back out. 
He looks desperately around the room. 
The room is wallpapered with nursery rhyme characters. 
There are toys strewn around. There is one adult-sized easy chair in the corner. 
Hi carries the baby over to the chair, stepping on and reacting to the squeal of a squeeze-me toy on the way. He sits the baby deep in - the chair and then returns to the crib to deal with the second crying baby. 
He lifts the baby out of the crib and gently bounces it. This baby stops crying. 
Another one in the crib starts bawling. 
Hi sets the second baby down on the floor and gives it a rattle to keep it pacified. He reaches for the third baby in the crib. Sweat stands out on Hi 's brow. He is desperately chucking the third baby under the chin when we hear a muffled PTHUMP! 
He whirls to look across the darkened room. 
The first baby has dropped off the easy chair and is energetically crawling away toward a shadowy corner. 
LIVING ROOM 
Nathan and Florence are sitting stock-still, staring at the ceiling. After a moment, another baby starts crying. 
NATHAN What're they, playing telephone? 
They stare at the ceiling. 
NURSERY 
Loose babies are crawling everywhere. Hi is skittering across the room in a half-crouch, a baby tucked under one arm, reaching out with the other as he pursues a crawling baby across the room. 
He hefts the other baby with his free arm and brings the air back to the crib. 
He turns to look frantically around the room. 
The other three babies have disappeared. 
There is perfect quiet. 
Hi goes over to the closet door, which is ajar, and swings it open. 
He reaches under a moving pile of clothes on the floor and pulls out a baby. 
He returns it to the crib and freezes, listening. 
The sound of a rattle. 
He drops to the floor to look under the crib. 
WIDE ANGLE UNDER CRIB 
A baby holding a rattle leers into the camera in the foreground. Behind him Hi, on his stomach, is reaching in to grab at his leg. 
Hi is pulling the baby out, away from the camera, when with a plop! a baby drops onto Hi 's back from the crib above. 
Hi twists one arm back to grope for the baby crawling on top of him. 
He is straightening up, a baby in each arm, when he reacts in horror to something he sees across the room. 
HI'S POV 
The hindquarters of a diapered baby are just disappearing around the corner of the nursery door into the hallway. 
LIVING ROOM 
Florence and Nathan are staring at the ceiling. After a beat we hear a muffled plop! on the ceiling. A beat later, the bleat of the squeeze-me toy. 
LIVING ROOM 
Nathan is leafing through the lingerie ads in the newspaper. 
We can hear Florence's returning footsteps. Muttering: 
NATHAN Christian Dior my butt... 
Florence enters. 
NATHAN ...They pay money for that? 
FLORENCE Yes dear. 
NATHAN How're the kids? 
FLORENCE Fine dear. 
NATHAN Fuckin' kids, I love 'em. 
We hear the bleat of the squeeze-me toy. Florence and Nathan look at the ceiling for a beat, then Nathan clears his throat and returns to the newspaper. 
CHEVY 
Ed sits anxiously waiting in the driver's seat, peering intently through the windshield. As she catches sight of something she breaks into a broad smile, unlocks the door, and slides over to the passenger seat. 
Hi is opening the door with one hand, cradling a baby in the other. 
ED Which one ya get? 
As he gets into the driver's seat: 
HI I dunno. Nathan Jr., I think. 
ED Gimme here. 
He hands her the infant, then hands her the copy of Dr.Spock's Baby and Child Care. 
HI Here's the instructions. 
ED Oh, he's beautiful! 
Hi nods as he pulls away from the curb. 
HI He's awful damn good. I think I got the best one. 
Ed is gushing and kissing the baby through the rest of the conversation. 
ED I bet they were all beautiful. All babies are beautiful! 
HI Yeah. This one's awful damn good though. 
ED Don't you cuss around him. 
HI He's fine, he is. I think it's Nathan Jr. 
ED We are doin' the right thing, aren't we Hi? - I mean, they had more'n they could handle. 
HI Well now honey we been over this and over this. There's what's right and there's what's right, and never the twain shall meet. 
ED But you don't think his momma'll be upset? I mean overly? 
HI Well a course she'll be upset, sugar, but she'll get over it. She's got four little babies almost as good as this one. It's like when I was robbin' convenience stores - 
Ed suddenly bursts out crying. 
ED I love him so much! 
HI I know you do, honey. 
ED (still sobbing) I love him so much! 
TRAILER LIVING ROOM 
As the lights are thrown on. The room is hung with streamers. A string of cut-out letters reads "Welcome Home Son!" 
HI (O.S.) Okay, bring him in! 
REVERSE 
Ed is entering with Nathan Jr. 
HI This is it young Nathan Jr. Just feast your eyes about, old boy! 
ED Don't be so loud around him, Hi. 
HI (softly) Damn, I'm sorry honey. 
ED And don't you cuss around him. 
HI Aw, he don't know a cuss word from shinola. 
ED Well see that he don't. 
HI (jovially) He's all right, he is. 
He reaches for the child. 
HI ...Come on over here, Nathan Jr., I'll show you around. 
He takes the baby in both hands and holds him out at arm's length, pointing him at the various places of interest. The baby looks goggle-eyed at each one. 
HI ...Lookahere, young sportsman. That - there's the kitchen area where Ma and Pa chow down. Over there's the TV, two hours a day maximum, either educational or football so's you don't ruin your appreciation of the finer things. This - here's the divan, for sociahzin' and relaxin' with the family unit. Yessir, many's the day we sat there and said wouldn't it be nice to have a youngster here to share our thoughts and feelin's - 
Impatient with the nonsense: 
Both are bellowing. 
Mud sucks and pops. 
Thunder crashes. 
INT. GAS STATION MENS ROOM 
At the cut the ear-splitting thunder drops out to quiet. We hear only the muffled patter of rain and the hum of a bare fluorescent. 
The two bedraggled escaped cons are standing side by side, combing their hair in the mirror. The men seem absorbed in their task, using hair jelly from a jar that sits on the shelf between them to restore their duck's-ass haircuts. 
Evelle cracks the bathroom door and looks out into the rain. 
EVELLE ...Okay. 
GALE What is it? 
EVELLE Mercury. Looks nice. 
EXT. GAS STATION 
The two men are trotting out to a Mercury that sits untended at a gas island, a gas hose on automatic stuck in its tank. 
As Gale starts up the car Evelle yanks the hose out and drops it to the ground. Gale is already starting to peel out as Evelle gets in. 
WIDE SHOT TRAILER LIVING ROOM 
Late at night. Hi sits asleep on the sofa at the far end of the room, in a pool of lamp light. 
We hear faint, distant knocking. As we track in toward Hi the knocking becomes louder and more present. 
As we approach Hi we see that several Polaroids are spread over his gently rising and falling chest. 
By the time we tighten on his face the knocking has become quite loud. 
VOICE Open up! 
Hi starts awake with a grunt. 
VOICE ...Open up in air! 
He looks up, alarmed. 
HI'S POV 
The front door of the trailer. Someone is pounding insistently. 
VOICE Open up! It's a police! 
BACK TO HI 
He sits up and tenses. He looks around. 
Ed stands in her nightgown at the mouth of the hallway, holding Nathan Jr. and squinting at Hi. She hisses: 
ED Hi! What's goin' on? 
VOICE Po-lice, son! Open her up! 
Hi gets to his feet, hurriedly tosses the Polaroids under a cushion of the couch and takes out a gun. 
HI Get in the bedroom. 
ED They ain't gonna take Nathan?! 
HI Well I'd like to see 'em fly. 
As Ed turns back to the bedroom: 
VOICE Open up and maybe we'll letcha plea- bargain. 
BEDROOM 
As Ed enters and shuts the door. She listens hard at the door: 
Hi's footsteps cross the living room, the click of the door opening, silence... a burst of raucous male laughter. 
HI'S VOICE ...Honey! Come on out here! Want you to meet a couple friends of mine! 
LIVING ROOM 
As Ed enters, carrying Nathan Jr. All three men - Hi, Gale, and Evelle - are beaming at her. 
HI Honey, like you to meet Gale and Evelle Snopes, fine a pair as ever broke and entered. 
Gale roars with laughter. 
HI ...Boys, this - here's my wife. 
GALE Ma'am. 
EVELLE Miz McDunnough. 
Ed smiles politely, then squints at Hi. 
ED Kind of late for visitors, isn't it Hi? 
HI Well yeah honey, but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint. Gotta show a little hospitality. 
Gale is admiring the baby. 
GALE Well now H.I., looks like you been up to the devil's bidnis! 
EVELLE That a him or a her? 
ED Promise just a day or two. 
HI Tonight and tomorrow, tops. 
EXTREME HIGH ANGLE 
Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in bed. It is later: filtering softly in from the other room is the end of the "Star Spangled Banner" on TV. We are craning down. 
VOICE OVER That night I had a dream. 
FLASH CUT 
For a brief moment we see a wall of flames and hear it roar. 
BACK TO HI 
Still craning down. 
VOICE OVER ...I'd drifted off thinkin' about happiness, birth, and new life... 
FLASH CUT 
Wall of flames. Deafening roar. 
BACK TO HI 
Craning down. The faint National Anthem ends: we hear the WEEEEEEEE of a test pattern. 
VOICE OVER But now I was haunted by a vision of - 
WALL OF FLAMES 
Roaring. At the cut: WHOOOOOSH! a huge low-rider motorcycle bursts through the flames, its engine roaring even louder than the fire. Its driver is a huge leather-clad hellion. 
The chains worn by the Biker clank ominously as he rides. 
VOICE OVER He was horrible... 
The Biker roars out of frame. 
LOW-ANGLE REVERSE 
As the Biker roars into frame, his rear tire laying down a wake of fire. 
VOICE OVER ...a lone biker of the apocalypse... 
TRACKING ON BIKER 
As he roars along a ribbon of desert highway. 
VOICE OVER ...a man with all the powers of her at his command. 
The Biker reaches for his bullwhip. 
VOICE OVER ...He could turn the day into night... 
The Biker cracks the whip and, at the crack: 
The sky behind him turns instantly to black. Bolts of lightning crackle across it as thunder roars. 
ANOTHER DESERT SCENE DAY 
Tracking with and also in on the Biker from behind as he roars along a strip of highway. He is reaching for the two sawed-off shotguns which are strapped crisscross across his back. 
VOICE OVER ...and laid to waste everything in his path. 
REVERSE TRACK ON BIKER 
Pulling the Biker from a distance as he levels the two shotguns. The tracking camera pulls back further to reveal a running jack-rabbit keeping pace with us in the foreground. 
VOICE OVER He was especially hard on the little things... 
CRACK - as the first shotgun spurts orange the foreground rabbit keels over. The Biker slues the other gun around. 
LOCKED-DOWN WIDE SHOT 
On a rock in the foreground, a desert lizard suns himself. 
The Biker is approaching in the distant background. 
VOICE OVER ...the helpless and the gentle creatures. 
CRACK - from afar, the foreground lizard is blown away. 
LOCKED-DOWN LOW-ANGLE WIDE SHOT 
Of the empty desert road stretching away. In the foreground a lone desert flower blooms. 
The Biker roars into frame. 
VOICE OVER He left a scorched earth in his wake, befouling even the sweet desert breeze that whipped across his brow. 
As the Biker roars away, the foreground flower bends with his draft and then bursts into flame. 
TRACKING ON BIKER 
From in front. He twirls the shotguns in either hand and reaches back to plunge them over his shoulders into their holsters. 
VOICE OVER I didn't know where he came from or why... 
We are moving in on his chest, where two crisscrossed bandoliers carry two rows of hand grenades, their silver pins glinting in the sun. We follow the line of one of the bandoliers up to his right shoulder which bears the tattoo: "Mama Didn't Love Me." 
VOICE OVER I didn't know if he was dream or vision... 
REVERSE TRACK ON BIKER 
As Nathan allows himself to be led back into the house he calls back over his shoulder: 
NATHAN But remember, it's still business as usual at Unpainted Arizona, and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name still ain't Nathan Arizona! 
We are following the two, hand-held, as the Police leads Nathan toward the living room. 
LIVING ROOM 
The room is filled with policemen milling about in several different uniforms: local police, state troopers, plainclothes detectives. 
The original Policeman is leading Nathan to a table where a white-smocked technician is preparing inkpad and exemplar sheets. 
The dialogue is urgent, rapid-fire and overlapping. 
POLICEMAN Mr. Byrum here can take your exemplars while you talk. 
MR. BYRUM has taken Nathan's right hand and is rolling its fingers onto the inkpad. 
BYRUM Just let your hand relax; I'll do the work. 
Nathan jerks his hand away. 
NATHAN What is this?! I didn't steal the damn kid! 
Two men in conservative suits are approaching. 
POLICEMAN Sir, these men are from the FBI- 
NATHAN (bewildered) Are you boys crazy?! All I know is I wake up this morning with my wife screaming- 
BYRUM (patiently) We just need to distinguish your prints from the perpetrators', if they left any. 
Giving his hand back: 
NATHAN Course! I know that! 
FBI #1 Sir, we have an indication you were born Nathan Huffhines; is this correct? 
NATHAN Yeah, I changed m'name; what of it? 
FBI #2 Could you give us an indication why? 
NATHAN Yeah, would you buy furniture at a store called Unpainted Huffhines? 
FBI #1 All right, I'll get to the point- 
UNIFORMED COP Was the child wearing anything when he was abducted? 
NATHAN No one sleeps nekkid in this house, boy! He was wear- 
FBI #1 I'm asking the questions here, officer. 
COP If we're gonna put out an APB we need a description of the - 
NATHAN He was wearin' his- 
FBI #2 It's just that we're better trained to intervene in crisis situations (to Nathan) What was he wearing? 
NATHAN A dinner jacket! Wuddya think, he was wearing his damn jammies! 
FBI #2 (to cop) The child was wearing his jammies. Are you happy? 
FBI #1 Do you have any disgruntled employees? 
NATHAN Hell, they're all disgruntled! I ain't runnin' a damn daisy farm! 
COP What did the pajamas- 
NATHAN My motto is do it my way or watch your butt! 
COP What did the pajamas- 
FBI #1 So you think it might have been an employee? 
NATHAN Don't make me laugh. Without my say- so they don't piss with their pants on fire. 
COP What did the pajamas look like? 
FBI #1 (pained) Officer- 
NATHAN (bellowing) I dunno, they were jammies! They had Yodas'n shit on 'em! 
BELLOWING VOICE OFFSCREEN Would ya mind, I'm trying to set up a Command Post here! 
Nathan bellows back: 
NATHAN Get your feet off m'damn coffee table! 
Also raising his voice at the offscreen bellower: 
FBI #1 Ron, you're upsetting the victim. 
Nathan is getting worked up. 
NATHAN Damnit, are you boys gonna go chase down your leads or are you gonna sit drinkin' coffee in the one house in the state where I know my boy ain't at?! 
FBI #2 Sir, there aren't any "leads" yet, aside from this coat- 
NATHAN Gimme that! 
He grabs the overcoat being displayed by FBI #2. 
NATHAN That's a five-hundred-dollar camel's hair- 
BYRUM Sir, you might want to wash your hands at this point. 
CLOSE ON ED 
Looking pleadingly at Hi. 
BACK TO HI 
Feeling the look, he goes back to his cornflakes. 
HI ...Well... maybe that ain't such a hot idea either. 
Gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling. 
GALE (bitterly) So many social engagements. So little time. 
WIDE SHOT GAS STATION BATHROOM 
It is the bathroom where we earlier saw Gale and Evelle combing their hair, now empty. 
We are looking toward the door. The bathroom is quiet except for the dripping sink, and the faint rumble of an approaching motorcycle. It grows louder, then begins to recede as the bike shoots by the station. 
Suddenly we hear the screech of the bike's brakes. 
EXT. THE STATION 
We are on the road outside the gas station as the motorcycle screeches to a halt in the foreground. The low wide shot crops the BIKER at his shins. In the background behind him is the gas station. 
The Biker pauses for a moment, thinking or feeling. 
BACK TO INT. BATHROOM 
We hear the rumble of the bike approaching, very loud. 
CRASH - the bathroom door flies open as the Biker bursts in astride his hog, bright daylight streaming in with him to throw him into imposing silhouette. The shafts of light pouring in are defined by motes of dust dancing in the air. 
HIS POV 
Fast track in on the jar of hair jelly sitting on the shelf under the mirror. 
BACK TO BIKER 
An extreme close shot shows his nostrils dilating as we hear him sniff. 
He revs the rumbling bike, stealing thunder from a far mountain. 
FRONT STOOP OF TRAILER 
Hi, with Ed standing by, is just opening the door to a young couple. Glen is a short stocky blond man in his early thirties, wearing Bermuda shorts. DOT is wearing slacks, heels, and a scarf over her hair. 
HI Glen, Dot- 
As the door opens, Dot hops up the stoop shrieking. 
DOT Where's at baby? Where's he at? 
From behind, Glen gives her an energetic THWOK on the ass. 
GLEN Go find him honey! 
Dot spins and smacks Glen across the face with her purse. 
Through clenched teeth: 
DOT Cut it out, Glen! 
He reels under the blow. 
ED (quietly) He's asleep right now. 
Dot shrieks again, but this time muffles it with her own hand. She tiptoes into the trailer, hand to her mouth. 
Glen, rubbing his cheek, seems angry at himself. 
GLEN Shit, I hope we didn't wake it! 
DOT Can I just sneak a peek-a-loo? 
Glen at the top of the stoop, turns out to the yard. 
GLEN Come on kids... 
WIDE SHOT GLEN AND DOT'S KIDS 
A scad of children, ranging in age from two to seven, are crawling over Hi's car. One is beating on it with a large stick, another sits on the hood pulling back one of the windshield wipers, etc. 
GLEN ...Get away from Mr. McDunnough's car. 
TRAILER BEDROOM 
As Ed and Dot enter, Ed beaming as they go to the crib. 
DOT What's his name? 
ED Uh... Hi Jr. Till we think of a better one. 
DOT Whyncha call him Jason? I love Biblical names. If I had another little boy I'd name him Jason or Caleb or- Oh! 
She puts her hand to her forehead, reacting to the baby as if she is about to faint. 
DOT ...He's an angel! 
She hides her face in her hands and looks away as if blinded, then sneaks a look around her hands. 
DOT ...He's an angel straight from heaven! Now honey I had all my kids the hard way so you gotta tell me where you got this angel. Did he fly straight down from heaven? 
ED Well- 
ED He's gotta have his dip-tet, honey. 
Hi shrugs, then flinches as a piece of jello hits his shoulder. 
HI ...Uh-huh. 
DOT You started his bank accounts? 
ED Have we done that honey? We gotta do that honey. What's that for, Dot? 
DOT That-there's for his orthodonture and his college. You soak his thumb in iodine you might get by without the orthodonture, but it won't knock any off the college. 
Hi sits stoically. Dot is looking offscreen: 
DOT ...Reilly, take that diaper off your head and put it back on your sister!... Anyway, you probably got the life insurance all squared away. 
ED You done that yet honey? 
DOT You gotta do that, Hi! Ed here's got her hands full with that little angel! 
HI (dully) Yes ma'am. 
DOT What would Ed and the angel do if a truck came along and splattered your brains all over the interstate? Where would you be then? 
ED Yeah honey, what if you get run over? 
DOT Or you got carried off by a twister? 
LAKESIDE PATH 
We are tracking on Hi and Glen as they walk side by side. Glen is sopping wet, wearing only swimming suit and wing- tipped shoes. His body is ghostly pale except for a V-area at his neck and his arms below the short-sleeve line, which are a bright angry red. 
GLEN Hear about the person of the Polish persuasion he walks into a bar holdin' a pile of shit in his hands, says "Look what I almost stepped in." 
Glen bursts out laughing; Hi walks on in silence. 
HI ...Yeah, that's funny all right... 
GLEN Ya damn right it's funny! Shit man, what's the matter? 
HI I dunno... maybe it's wife, kids, family life... I mean are you, uh, satisfied Glen?  Don't y'ever feel suffocated? Like, like there's somethin' big pressin' down... 
GLEN (solemnly) Eeeeeyep... I do know the feelin'. 
Hi shakes his head. 
HI Dunno- 
GLEN And I told Dottie to lose some weight but she don't wanna listen! 
He roars with laughter and slaps Hi heartily on the back. As he chuckles sympathetically: 
GLEN ...No man, I know what you mean. You got all kinds a responsibilities now. You're married, ya got a kid, looks like your whole life's set down and where's the excitement? 
HI Yeah Glen, I guess that's it. 
GLEN Okay! That's the disease, but there is a cure. 
HI Yeah? 
GLEN Sure; Doctor Glen is tellin' ya you can heal thyself. 
HI What do I gotta do? 
GLEN Well you just gotta broaden your mind a little bit. I mean say I asked you, what do you think about Dot? 
HI (puzzled) Fine woman you got there. 
Glen is eyeing him shrewdly. 
GLEN Okay. Now it might not look like it, but lemme tell you something: She's a hellcat. 
HI That right? 
GLEN T-I-G-E-R. 
HI But what's that got to do with- 
GLEN Don't rush me! 
He stops walking. Hi stops also, looking at Glen, Still puzzled. Glen lays a companionable hand on his shoulder. 
GLEN Now the thing about Dot is, she thinks- and she's told me this- 
He looks around as if to make sure they are not being overheard. His tone is confidential. 
GLEN ...she thinks... you're cute. 
Hi looks suspiciously at Glen's hand on his shoulder. 
HI ...Yeah...? 
Glen nods energetically: 
GLEN I'm crappin' you negative! And I could say the same about Ed! 
Through tightly clenched teeth: 
HI What're you talkin' about, Glen? 
GLEN What'm I talkin' about?!  I'm talkin' about sex, boy! What the hell're you talkin' about?! You know, "L'amour"?! I'm talkin' me'n Dot are Swingers! As in "to Swing"! Wife-swappin'! What they call nowadays Open Marriage! 
Beaming, he takes his hand off Hi's shoulder and spreads his arms. 
GLEN I'm talkin' about the Sex Revolution! I'm talkin' about- 
BACK TO ED 
As the siren is growing louder. Under her breath: 
ED That son-of-a-bitch. 
She unstraps herself and gets out of the car. 
INT. STORE 
Two-shot of Hi and the CASHIER, who is stuffing bills into a grocery bag. Beyond them we can see Ed, outside, circling the front of the car. 
Her shout is muffled through the glass: 
ED You son-of-a-bitch! 
With this Hi notices her. He turns to the Cashier. 
HI Better hurry it up. I'm in dutch with the wife. 
But Ed is already getting into the driver's seat of the car. 
BACK TO ED 
As she slams the car door shut. The siren is quite loud now. 
ED That son-of-a-bitch. Hang on, pumpkin. 
The car squeals out of the lot. 
WIDE SHOT THE STREET 
The squad car tops a rise to bounce into view, its siren wailing. 
BACK TO THE STORE 
Hi bursts out the door, still wearing the stocking. The carton of Huggies is still tucked under one arm. 
Bellowing hopefully after his departing car: 
HI Honey! 
We hear the SMACK-CRACK of a gunshot and glass impact, but the approaching squad car is still too far down the block to have been the source. 
Hi looks around the parking lot, bewildered. 
The wailing siren is becoming painfully loud. 
Hi looks behind him at the plate-glass front of the store, where a bullet pock mars the glass. 
HIS POV 
Through the glass we see the pimply young Cashier with the paper 7-Eleven cap pop up from behind the counter to sight down his huge .44 Magnum for another shot. The gun is so big he uses both hands to heft it. 
SMACK-CRACK - the bullet kisses another hole in the glass. 
Hi is off and running. 
The squad car is screeching into the lot. An officer tumbles out of the passenger side before the car is fully stopped. He rolls on the pavement, then hurriedly rights himself and takes up a half-kneeling shooting stance. 
At the same time the little Cashier is emerging from the 7- Eleven with his gun. 
The two bang away at Hi's retreating figure - the Policeman's revolver popping, the Cashier's Magnum booming. 
We hear the Policeman who is still in the car drawling over its loudspeaker: 
SPEAKER Halt. It's a police warning, son. Put those groceries down and turn yourself in. 
TRACKING ON HI 
Legs pumping, panty hose still over his head, its unused leg streaming behind him like an aviator's scarf. The gun is tucked into his belt; the Huggies are tucked securely under his arm. 
Behind him we can see the OFFICER and the Cashier squeeze off another couple shots, and then the policeman piles back into the squad car. 
ED'S CAR 
Driving. She hears distant gunshots. 
ED That son of a bitch... Hold on, Nathan. We're gonna go pick up Daddy. 
She hangs a vicious U-turn. 
TRACKING ON HI 
Huffing and puffing down the road with his Huggies. 
The cop car careens onto the street in the background, its siren wailing. 
The PASSENGER COP is leaning far out his window, one hand gripping the light-and-siren rack, the other pointing a gun at Hi, shooting away. 
Bullets whizz past. 
Suddenly, with a soft pthunk! the Huggies box pops forward, out from under Hi's arm - hit by a bullet. Still running, Hi reaches forward, tries to catch it on the fly, bobbles it, tips it - loses it. He overruns it a couple steps before he can bring himself up short. 
He turns and reaches to pick up the box but - PING-PING - bullets chew up the road near his hand. 
Leaving the Huggies, Hi takes off through a well-manicured yard. 
The police car is proceeding on down the street to catch him around the corner, the driver still drawling over his loudspeaker: 
SPEAKER That's private property, son. Come back out to the street and reveal yourself to Officer Steensma and Officer Scott - that's me. 
YARD 
Hi vaults a fence to land in the backyard. 
Roaring up the new street, they are now directly in the path of the oncoming police car, its siren wailing, barreling straight at them. 
Still screaming, the Driver leans into another hard right. 
Wind is whistling in through where the windshield used to be. 
Two wheels hop curb as the car skids into the new street, fishtails, and roars away. 
ED'S CAR 
She hears dogs, siren, squealing brakes on an adjacent street. 
ED Hold on Nathan, we'll take a shortcut. 
She gives the wheel a hard right turn. 
But there is no cross street. The car hops the curb and roars up someone's nicely tended front yard, heading for the gap between this house and the one next door. 
POLICE CAR 
Recovered and turned around from its near collision with the SCREAMING; Driver, the squad car is now squealing onto the street the Screamer swerved on to - resuming pursuit. 
As the police car roars down the street, Ed's car appears from between two houses behind it, bounces down the front yard to the street and follows the police. 
SCREAMER'S PICKUP 
Raking two-shot of Hi and the Screamer. Hi is looking back over his shoulder at the pursuing police. 
Desperately pleading: 
SCREAMER Can I stop now? 
Hi looks forward. 
HIS POV 
They are rushing toward an imposing colonial house planted at the end of the dead-end street. 
BACK TO HI 
HI Maybe you better. 
CLOSE SHOT BRAKE PEDAL 
Stepped on hard. The brakes scream. 
EXT. CAR 
As the car squeals to a halt Hi is catapulted through where the windshield used to be, tumbling over the hood onto the front lawn. 
He rolls to his feet and, as he runs up the lawn, calls back over his shoulder: 
HI Thank you. 
INTO THE HOUSE 
We are tracking behind Hi as he runs up to the house and crashes through the screen door. 
Still tracking behind him as he runs through the living room. 
A middle-aged couple sits on the couch watching TV. They look up as Hi rushes by. 
Hi plunges down a staircase. As he does so we hear: ka-chick ka-chock ka-chick ka-chock. 
He emerges into a rec room where he and we rush past two kids playing ping-pong. He runs out the back door. 
TRACKING WITH THE POLICEMAN 
As he runs into the house. 
As he runs through the living room we catch a glimpse of the middle-aged couple gaping at him. 
OFFICER STEENSMA plunges down the stairs. 
TRACKING ON HI 
Outdoors now, running, crossing the street behind the house and entering the parking lot of a supermarket on the other side. 
BACK TO THE HOUSE 
As a pack of dogs thunders in. The lead Doberman with chain and spike has now picked up about a dozen neighborhood dogs. 
The dogs thunder through the living room and down the stairs. As they hit the rec room the thunder of their feet turns into the clatter of nails on tile. 
INT. SUPERMARKET 
As Hi bursts in. Tracking on him as he runs down the broad front aisle, head whipping as he runs, looking up each perpendicular lane, searching for something. 
He turns up one of the last lanes, races along it and grabs a carton of Huggies, still on the flat run. 
He emerges into the broad back aisle and runs along it, but at the first perpendicular lane he hits, we see Officer Steensma, gun leveled, at the other end. He fires. 
Hi keeps running. 
The Policeman is running along the front aisle, keeping pace with Hi running along the back aisle. He squeezes off shots at Hi as each lane gives him the opportunity. 
Hi abruptly stops between lanes and doubles back, losing the Policeman. He runs down the second lane he comes to toward the front of the store. 
The pack of dogs appears at the end of the lane and thunders up toward Hi, braying at the top of their doggy lungs. The lead Doberman holds in his teeth a paper 7-Eleven cap. 
Hi reverses again, and emerges into the back aisle. 
BANG! A pyramid of cranberry juice explodes at his shoulder. The Policeman has been waiting at the end of the back aisle; he aims once again. 
Hi plunges down the next lane but is brought up short as KA- BOOM! five jars of applesauce explode in front of him. 
GALE Well ma'am... we sure didn't mean to influence anyone. 
EVELLE And if we did, we apologize. 
Ed is unmoved. 
ED I'm goin' in to town tomorrow to see about some shots for the baby. When I come back you better be gone or I'll kick you out myself. 
She storms into the bedroom and slams the door. 
There is an awkward silence as Gale studies his thumb and Evelle stares at the ceiling. Finally Evelle turns to Hi. 
EVELLE ...What's he need, his dip-tet? 
HI I'm awful sorry boys, but when Ed gets mad, you know, when she gets an idea... 
GALE Well there ain't a thing to apologize for, H.I... 
He looks at Evelle. 
GALE ...It seems pretty clear what the situation is here. 
EVELLE Yeah, I guess the Missus wants us to clear out. 
GALE Now H.I., you'll pardon me for sayin' so, but I get the feelin' that this- here... 
His gesture seems to take in the trailer and the entire domestic situation. 
GALE ...ain't exactly workin' out. 
HI Well now Ed's generally a real sweetheart, I- 
GALE And as per usual, I wouldn't be surprised if the source of the marital friction was financial. 
HI Well, matter of fact, I did lose my job today- 
EVELLE Come on Hi. you're young, you got your health - what do you want with a job? 
GALE But look, I'd rather light a candle than curse your darkness. As you know, Evelle'n I never go anywhere without a reason... and here we are in your little domicile. We come to invite you in on a score. 
EVELLE A bank, Hi. 
Hi is shaking his head. 
HI Aw boys, I don't- 
GALE I know you're partial to convenience stores but, H.I., the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery. 
EVELLE It's like Doc Schwartz says: You gotta have a little ambition. Why we just heard on the news how somebody snatched off one of the Arizona babies. Now there's someone thinkin' big. 
GALE And here you are sittin' around on your butt playin' house with a - don't get me wrong, H.I., with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type. 
HI Well now that ain't really any of your- 
GALE Just lookahere... 
He is handing Hi a folded-up picture. 
EVELLE Picture of El Dorado, Hi. 
GALE Though the locals call it the Farmers and Mechanics Bank of LaGrange. Looks like a hayseed bank and, tell you the truth, it is a hayseed bank. Except the last Friday of every financial quarter there's more cash in that bank than flies at a barbecue. 
EVELLE And guess what day it is tomorrow? 
GALE Ya see, H.I., it's when the hayseeds come in to cash their farm subsidy checks. 
EVELLE A-One information. 
GALE Got it in the joint from a guy named Lawrence Spivey, one of Dick Nixon's undersecretaries of agriculture. 
EVELLE He's in for solicitin' sex from a state trooper. 
GALE Ordinarily we don't associate with that class of person, but... 
Gale chuckles. 
GALE ...he was tryin' to make brownie points with some of the boys. 
HI Boys, I can't - 
EVIELLE We need someone handy with a scatter- gun to cover the hayseeds while we get the cash. 
GALE Y'understand, H.I., if this works out it's just the beginning of a spree across the entire Southwest proper. We keep goin' 'till we can retire - or we get caught. 
EVELLE Either way we're fixed for life. 
Hi is still shaking his head. 
HI Boys, it's a kind offer, but you're suggesting I just up'n leave Ed. Now that'd be pretty damn cowardly, wouldn't it. 
GALE Would it?  Think about it, H.I. Seems to me, stayin' here, y'ain't doin' her any good. And y'ain't bein' true to your own nature. 
The camera has floated in to a close shot of Hi, staring glumly at GALE. 
TRACKING ON MOTORCYCLE NIGHT 
Following it, very close, we see only its rear wheel and fender and twin exhaust pipes, one on either side. Flame is boiling in each exhaust pipe as the hog roars. 
HIGHER TRACKING SHOT 
From behind the Biker's head as he rides through the night. With the sharp whipcrack effect he suddenly looks left, searching. With a second whipcrack effect he suddenly looks right, still searching. 
He banks into a turn. 
EXT. TRAILER 
LOW WIDE TRACKING SHOT 
Behind the jackboots as they stroll through a showroom of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixtures. 
TRACKING ON THE MAILED HAND 
Swinging as he walks, the Biker's hand produces a fresh cheroot from no apparent source-either sleight-of-hand or magic. 
THE OTHER HAND 
Similarly producing a long wooden match. 
DISCOLORED TEETH 
Biting down on the cigar. 
HAND 
Dragging the kitchen match along the unfinished wood surface of an expensive bureau, leaving an ugly black scar. 
The match erupts into roaring flame. 
CIGAR 
Crackling as it is lit. 
DOOR 
Reading "Executive Offices." The mailed fist pushes it open. 
PEBBLED GLASS DOOR 
From the inside of the office. The name on the pebbled glass is a backwards Nathan Arizona. 
There is the shadow of a man approaching the door, and muffled voices. 
SECRETARY'S VOICE I'm sorry, Mr. Arizona, he just barged in... 
The door swings open and Nathan stands looking in, his middle- aged secretary hanging at his elbow. 
SECRETARY'S VOICE ...Should I call Dewayne? 
Nathan is staring toward his desk. 
NATHAN Hell no, why wake the security guard. I'll take care a this. 
The secretary leaves. 
NATHAN'S POV 
The Biker sits with his back to us, jackboots propped lazily on the desk. 
His head bobs and ducks, as if he is following some movement in the air in front of him. 
BACK TO NATHAN 
Eyes on the Biker he slams the door shut behind him, looking for some reaction. 
BIKER 
No reaction. His head continues to bob and duck. 
BACK TO NATHAN 
Circling the Biker as he crosses to sit behind his desk. 
HIS POV 
Arcing around to reveal the Biker's face. He still does not react to Nathan, not even bothering to give him a glance. 
His eyes continue to follow some phantom movement. 
When the Biker speaks it is still without looking at Nathan, and with a surprisingly soft voice and mild, unhurried manner: 
BIKER You got flies. 
He finally looks at Nathan, and smiles faintly. 
NATHAN I doubt it. This place's climate- controlled, all the windows are sealed. Who the hell are you? 
BIKER Name of Leonard Smalls. My friends call me Lenny... 
He takes a drag on his cigar. 
BIKER ...Only I ain't got no friends. 
NATHAN Stop, you'll make me bust out crying. Listen Leonard, you want some furniture or a shitbox, they're out on the sales floor. 
SMALLS is pleasantly shaking his head. 
SMALLS Nooo, I ain't a customer, I'm a manhunter. Ordinarily. Though I do hunt babies, on occasion. Hear you got one you can't put your hand to. 
NATHAN What do you know about it? 
SMALLS Wal, that's my business. I'm a tracker- part Hopi Indian, some say part hound dog. When some dink skips bail, crashes outta the joint, I'm the man they call. 
NATHAN Mister, I got the cops, the state troopers and the Federal-B-I already lookin' for my boy. Now if you got information I strongly advise- 
SMALLS Cop won't find your boy. Cop couldn't find his own butt if it had a bell on it. Wanna find an outlaw, call an outlaw. Wanna find a Dunkin Donuts, call a cop. 
NATHAN Smalls, first off, take your damn feet off m'furniture. Second off, it's widely known I posted a twenty grand reward for my boy. If you can find him, claim it. Short of that what do we got to talk about? 
SMALLS Price. Fair price. And that ain't whatever you say it is; fair price is what the market'll bear. Now there are people, mind you, there are people in this land, who'll pay a lot more'n twenty grand for a healthy baby. 
Nathan is looking at him stonily. 
GALE What's that, pardner? 
EVELLE He had a little accident. 
Gale looks over. 
GALE Wuddya mean, he looks okay. 
EVELLE No, ya see... Movin' though we are, he just had hisself a rest stop. 
GALE Well it's perfectly natural. 
EVELLE (very excited) Hey Gale! 
GALE What now? 
Evelle, beaming, looks up from the baby to Gale. 
EVELLE ...He smiled at me! 
THE SUN 
A huge rumbling rippling red ball that fills the frame. 
As we hear his footfalls on concrete steps, Smalls rises into frame, apparently climbing a stoop. The sun behind him throws him into silhouette; the extreme telephoto flattens him against the sun. Heat waves ripple between us and him, making his figure slightly waver. 
The rumble builds, louder and louder, until it is snapped off by a- 
INT. TRAILER 
CLICK. The front door handle clicks open and Smalls stands in the doorway. The abandoned trailer is perfectly quiet. 
The room is a complete shambles from the fight. Sunlight filters in between the slats of the venetian blinds. Smoke from Lenny Smalls' cheroot ripples up through the light. 
After only a momentary pause at the door to take in the scene, Smalls goes directly to a specific spot in the debris and nudges some of it aside with his toe, exposing a piece of paper. 
He bends down to pick it up but suddenly freezes, with a soft grunt of surprise. 
HIS POV 
At knee-height on the wall in front of him, "FART" is scrawled in crayon. 
BACK TO SMALLS 
As he stands up with the piece of paper. 
THE PAPER 
It is Gale's picture of the Farmers and Mechanics Bank. 
INT. CONVENIENCE STORE 
Close on a carton of diapers being set down on the check-out counter. 
EVELLE (O.S.) Know how you put these thangs on? 
WIDER 
Evelle and the Cashier, a late-middle-aged man (perhaps the proprietor of this small mom-and-pop store) face each other across the check-out counter. Evelle has various baby purchases - the diapers, baby food, etc. - piled on the counter. The Cashier is ringing them up. 
Through the open door beyond them we can see a strip of the parking lot. 
CASHIER Welp. Around the butt, then up over the groin area- 
EVELLE I know where they go, old timer. I mean do I need pins or fasteners? 
We see Gale trotting past through the visible part of the parking lot, cooing "Weeeeee!" as he holds Nathan Jr. Up over his head. 
CASHIER Well no, they got those tape-ettes already on there, it's self-contained and fairly explanatory. 
EVELLE Uh-huh... 
He takes a plastic-covered squirt gun off a display rack and drops it on the counter. He is looking around at the other impulse purchases displayed by the register; he unhooks a bag of balloons. 
EVELLE ...These blow up into funny shapes at all? 
Gale is trotting by in the opposite direction: "Weeeeee!" 
CASHIER Well no. Unless round is funny. 
Evelle is pulling a gun out of his belt. 
EVELLE All right, I'll take these too. Now you lie down back there- 
CASHIER Yessir! 
EVELLE And don't you move till you've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero. I'll be back to check - see y'ain't cheatin'. 
The Cashier is already down on the floor, out of frame. 
CASHIER (O.S.) You the diaper burglar? 
As he heads for the door with the groceries: 
EVELLE Looks like I'm one of 'em. 
EXT. STORE 
As Evelle hurriedly emerges with the two bags. Faintly we can hear the Cashier bellowing: "One one thousand, two one thousand..." 
EVELLE Get the door, will ya? 
Gale is slipping the baby back into his car seat, which sits on the roof of the car. He starts doing up the straps. 
GALE He's a real cheerful little critter once he warms up to ya. 
GALE We'll never give him up, Evelle. He's our little Gale Jr. now. 
HI AND ED'S CAR 
Hi driving. Both are staring wordlessly ahead at the road. 
Hi looks over at Ed, glum but trying to be kind. 
HI ...Ed, I realize I can't be much of a comfort to you. But lemme just say this... 
He is nodding to himself. 
HI You'll feel a whole lot better when- 
ED I don't wanna feel better. 
HI Honey- 
ED I don't care about myself anymore. I don't care about us anymore. I just want Nathan Junior back safe. 
HI I know that- 
ED If we don't get him back safe, I don't wanna go on livin'. And even if we do, I don't wanna go on livin' with you. 
This shuts Hi up. 
After a moment: 
ED ...I guess I still love you Hi; I know I do. I ain't even blaming you. The whole thing was crazy and the whole thing was my idea. 
Hi clears his throat. 
HI Well, factually, I myself bear a very large- 
ED Lemme finish. Since those jailbirds took little Nathan I been doin' some thinking, and I ain't too proud of myself. Even if Mrs. Arizona had more'n she could handle, I was a police officer sworn to uphold the Constitution of the United States - 
HI Now waitaminute honey, you resigned before we- 
ED That ain't the point, Hi. We don't deserve Nathan Jr. Any more'n those jailbirds do. And if I'm as selfish and irresponsible as you- 
HI Y'ain't that bad, honey. 
ED If I'm as bad as you, what good're we to each other. You'n me's just a fool's paradise. 
FARMERS AND MECHANICS BANK 
Baking in the noonday sun. 
GALE AND EVELLE 
Sitting in the front seat of their idling car, looking at the bank. 
EVELLE There she is. 
GALE Yep. Welp... 
They look at each other. Gale reaches for his door. 
GALE ...Let's do her. 
EVELLE Waitaminute. What do we do with Gale Jr.? 
GALE Wuddya mean, he waits here. 
EVELLE Are you crazy?!  He can't wait here by hisself. Supposin' we get killed in there - it could be hours before he's discovered. 
INT. FARMERS AND MECHANICS BANK 
As Gale and Evelle bang in through the door. Evelle holds a shotgun; Gale holds a shotgun in one hand and Nathan Jr. in his car seat in the other. 
GALE All right you hayseeds, it's a stick- up! Everbody freeze! Everbody down on the ground! 
Everyone freezes, staring at Gale and Evelle. An Old Hayseed with his hands in the air speaks up: 
HAYSEED Well which is it young fella? You want I should freeze or get down on the ground? Mean to say, iffen I freeze, I can't rightly drop. And iffen I drop, I'm a gonna be in motion. Ya see - 
GALE SHUTUP! 
Promptly: 
HAYSEED Yessir. 
GALE Everone down on the ground! 
EVELLE Y'all can just forget that part about freezin'. 
GALE That is until they get down there. 
EVELLE Y'all hear that? 
There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on the ground. 
Gale is tossing Evelle a sack. 
GALE Wanna fill that sack, pardner? We got - shit! 
He is looking in shock at the tellers' counter. 
GALE ...Where'd all the tellers go? 
There is no one behind the counter. 
A muffled voice from offscreen: 
VOICE We're down here, sir. 
Sitting placidly in his car seat that sits in the middle of the road in front of the bank. 
We can hear the wail of the police siren still approaching. 
As we hold on Nathan Jr. we hear the distant booming of a shotgun. 
As we boom up to show the empty street beyond the baby, we hear the crack of return fire and furiously squealing brakes. The screech culminates in a loud explosion that snaps off the siren wail. The police car is apparently history. 
From beyond the crest of the road ahead a ball of flame has leapt up with the explosion. As the explosion echoes and fades we hear the deep rumble of an approaching engine. 
Lenny Smalls' motorcycle appears over the rise. Framed against fire and smoke, he is coming directly toward us, and the baby. 
FROM BEHIND HI AND ED 
As they top a rise coming from the other direction. We see the baby sitting in the middle of the street, and Lenny fast approaching from the background. 
LOCKED DOWN TO MOTORCYCLE 
The extremely low wide shot, locked down to the speeding bike, shows us rushing toward the rear of Nathan Jr's car seat. 
With a clank of chains Lenny's hand drops down into frame, palm forward, tensing to scoop up the car seat that we are almost upon. 
A tattoo on Lenny's wrist reads "No Prisoners." 
REVERSE 
Low shot with Nathan Jr. in the foreground. 
He is scooped up and out of frame as Lenny roars by. 
ON LENNY 
Roaring along. He hooks the car seat over his handlebars. 
OVER HI AND ED'S SHOULDERS 
Lenny is approaching. Under her breath: 
ED What is he? 
HI ...D'you see him too? 
Lenny is sawing a shotgun out of his back holster and leveling it at the oncoming car. 
Lenny is sighting down the gun, swinging it around as he approaches the car. 
HI AND ED DUCK JUST AS: 
The shotgun spits orange flame and the windshield explodes in. 
Lenny roars by. 
LENNY'S POV 
The baby on the handlebars in the foreground; the road rushing by beyond him. 
The bike banks into a hard turn. 
FACING HI AND ED 
Shooting through where the windshield used to be, cutting in at the end of the skid as the car rocks to a halt. 
Hi and Ed are raising their heads. Facing forward, they do not see Lenny approaching again through the rear window. 
He is sawing out his second shotgun. 
Hi looks around, reaches and pulls Ed down beneath him just as: 
KA-BOOM! - The second shotgun roars and the back window spits in. 
As Lenny roars past the back window he casually flips something in. 
LOOKING DOWN AT HI AND ED 
Folded over in the front seat. Below them something bounces into and around the leg well - Lenny's grenade. 
EXT. CAR 
As the two front doors fly open and Hi and Ed spill out - Hi from the driver's side, heading for the far side of the road, and Ed from the passenger side. 
ON ED 
As she dives for cover behind a parked car. Beyond her - KABOOM! - their car explodes and bounces, pouring black smoke. 
ON HI 
The explosion flings him to the ground in the middle of the street. 
THROUGH FIRE AND SMOKE 
Looking up the street to where Lenny is wheeling his bike in a U-turn. He is not finished yet. 
Hi flat on his back, woozily shaking his head. 
He weakly raises himself on his elbows to look down the street. 
HI'S POV 
Looking down the length of his own body. His legs stretch away in a V. 
Crashing down from a wheelie, Lenny's roaring bike is almost upon him - aiming up the middle of the V. 
HI 
He rolls. As the bike is roaring by: 
Closing on Ed as she reaches the mouth of the alley. A plank swings into frame, straight at the camera. 
REVERSE 
Matching action as Hi finishes swinging the plank into Lenny's face. 
Lenny hits the ground hard as his bike spins out from under him. 
THE BIKE 
Riderless, twisting crazily into the street where it collapses. 
HI AND ED 
Lenny is rising to his feet beyond them as Hi nods encouragement to Ed. 
HI Run along now, honey. 
Lenny is reaching back to throw his knife. 
Hi, unaware, is turning to face him, presenting the plank as - the knife is thrown. 
It thunks into the plank, piercing it through. 
Hi backs up, swinging the knife - studded plank to make Lenny keep his distance. 
TRACKING BEHIND LENNY'S SHOULDER 
As he reaches up to unhook a chain from a ring on his vest shoulder. 
LENNY'S HAND 
As the free chain drops down into his palm. 
LENNY 
Swinging the chain - WHOOSH WHOOSH - at the backpedaling Hi. 
THE PLANK 
As the chain snakes around it and rips it out of Hi's hands. 
LENNY 
Grabbing Hi by the shirtfront. 
LENNY'S OTHER HAND 
Swings down and brass knuckles appear on it. 
ON HI 
As Lenny's fist swings into frame to club him forehand, then backhand. 
An uppercut from his heels sends Hi sprawling back. 
A PARKED CAR 
As Hi lands against it, banging his head. He sinks to the ground. 
Lenny is casually walking toward him, lighting a cheroot. Hi flops over onto his stomach and starts wriggling under the car. 
FROM UNDER THE CAR 
Hi's face in the foreground as he desperately seeks escape. 
Behind him we can see Lenny casually reaching down and grabbing an ankle. 
The shot is framed identically to the shot in the Arizona nursery where Hi pulled a baby from under the crib. 
Lenny pulls. Hi is dragged away from the camera and out from under the car. 
HI 
Struggling to stand up. 
Lenny wraps his arms around him and applies a tremendous bear hug. 
HI'S ARMS 
Crushed against Lenny. His hands paw futilely at Lenny's chest. 
FULL SHOT 
Lenny finally flings Hi away. 
HI 
Landing in the dust, all the fight beaten out of him. 
LENNY 
Tired of the fight: He saws out both shotguns 
THE HAMMERS 
On the guns as Lenny's thumbs draw them back. He raises the guns to fire. 
HI 
The end of the road. 
He wearily lifts a hand, defensively extending it in front of him - then stops, staring at: 
HI'S HAND 
