RAY That one? 
JUDY Yes--he started yelling for a handkerchief--screaming.  He grabbed my face and he rubbed all my lipstick off--he rubbed till I thought I wouldn't have any lips left.  And all the time yelling at me--that thing--the thing I told you he called me.  Then I ran out of the house. 
RAY Is that why you were wandering around at one o'clock in the morning? 
JUDY I was just talking a walk.  I tried to call the kids but everybody was out and I couldn't find them.  I hate my life.  I just hate it. 
RAY You weren't looking for company, were you? 
JUDY No. 
RAY Did you stop to talk to anyone, Judy? (she is silent) Do you enjoy that? 
JUDY No.  I don't even know why I do it. 
RAY Do you think you can get back at your Dad that way?  I mean sometimes if we can't get as close to somebody as we'd like we have to try making them jealous--so they'll have to pay attention.  Did you ever think of that? 
JUDY I'll never get close to anybody. 
RAY Some kids stomped a man on Twelfth Street, Judy. 
JUDY You know where they picked me up! Twelfth Street!  I wasn't even near there! 
RAY Would you like to go home if we can arrange it? (no answer; to WOMAN OFFICER) Did you notify the parents? 
WOMAN OFFICER She wouldn't give me their number. 
RAY What's your number, Judy?  We'll see if your Dad will come and get you. 
JUDY looks up hopefully. 
RAY Unless you really don't want to go home. (silence) Would you rather stay here? 
Camera moves close on JUDY.  She looks up and speaks very quietly. 
JUDY Lexington 05549. 
The wail of a siren is heard.  JUDY looks off through the glass wall toward JIM.  RAY is heard dialing. 
Med. shot.  JIM's bench.  JIM sits with his head back, eyes closed.  As the siren mounts louder, JIM opens his mouth and imitates it--a long, forlorn wail. 
Med. shot, PLATO and NEGRO WOMAN.  PLATO smiles faintly and moves out toward JIM, NEGRO WOMAN following.  Camera pans with them.  PLATO sits by JIM.  She stands over them.  JIM's wailing continues. 
Med. shot.  JIM, PLATO, NEGRO WOMAN.  An OFFICER moves into shot. 
OFFICER Hey! 
JIM continues for a moment. 
OFFICER (continuing) Hey!  That's enough static out of you. 
JIM Want me to imitate a stupid cop? 
OFFICER Cut it out now.  I'm warning you. 
JIM Yes, ma'am. 
The OFFICER moves out.  The NEGRO WOMAN bends over PLATO who is shivering violently. 
NEGRO WOMAN You shivering, John?  You cold? 
PLATO shakes his head.  JIM notices him. 
JIM Want my jacket? 
PLATO looks up at JIM. 
JIM (continuing) You want my jacket?  It's warm. 
PLATO wants it but shakes his head "no." 
Full shot.  JUDY's office.  RAY and JUDY seated as before. JUDY is still gazing through the glass. 
RAY Your mother will be down in a few minutes, Judy-- 
NEGRO WOMAN She keep it to protect herself, sir. She scared without a man in the house. 
GENE Where's your mother tonight, Plato? 
PLATO She's away. 
NEGRO WOMAN Seems like she's always going somewhere.  She got a sister in Chicago and she go for the holiday. She says her sister is all the family she has. GENE Where's your father? 
PLATO is silent. 
NEGRO WOMAN They not together, sir.  We don't see him in a long time now. 
GENE Do you hear from him, son? 
PLATO looks up as JIM and his family move into the next office.  JIM smiles at PLATO, who returns it feebly, then looks away--embarrassed. 
GENE You know if the boy ever talked to a psychiatrist? 
PLATO (smiling a bit) Head-shrinker? 
NEGRO WOMAN (laughing) Oh, Mrs. Crawford don't believe in them! 
GENE Well maybe she better start. 
Other office.  JIM, his parents, GRANDMA and RAY are gathered in the small room.  JIM is humming THE RIDE OF THE VALKRYIES to himself as if he had absolutely no interest in what is happening around him.  RAY suspects this is something more than mere disinterest, so lets the humming go on, in order to discover its real purpose.  GRANDMA watches everything like a tennis match, reacting with soft little sounds of terror or astonishment or sympathy.  No one pays any attention to her.  For a moment no one talks.  RAY watches JIM as he hums.  Then the FATHER shakes his head and looks up. 
FATHER I don't see what's so bad about taking a little drink. 
RAY You don't? 
FATHER No.  I definitely don't.  I did the sa-- 
RAY He's a minor, Mr. Stark, and it looks to me like he had more than a little drink. 
FATHER (chuckling) Say, listen-- 
MOTHER (to JIM: in intimate, half-humorous disapproval) Jim--don't hum. 
JIM merely rolls his eyes at her, then away--but continues his humming. 
FATHER I guess I cut pretty loose in my day too. 
MOTHER Really, Frank?  When was that? 
FATHER Listen--can't you wait till we get home? 
RAY Whoa!  Whoa!  I know you're a little upset but-- 
FATHER Sorry. 
RAY What about you, Jim?  Got anything to say for yourself? 
JIM stops humming and shrugs. 
RAY Not interested, huh? 
JIM shakes his head. 
MOTHER Can't you answer?  What's the matter with you anyhow? 
FATHER He's just loaded, honey. 
MOTHER I was talking to Jim. 
FATHER (to RAY) Let me just explain to you--we just moved here, y'understand?  The kid has no friends yet and-- 
JIM Tell him why we moved here. 
FATHER Hold it, Jim. 
JIM You can't protect me. 
FATHER (to JIM) You mind if I try?  You have to slam the door in my face? (to RAY) I try to get to him--what happens? (to JIM) Don't I give you everything you want?  A bicycle--you get a bicycle. A car-- 
JIM You buy me many things.  Thank you. 
JIM And they think they are protecting my by moving. 
RAY You were getting a good start in the wrong direction back there. Why did you do it? 
JIM Mess that kid up? 
RAY just nods. 
JIM (continuing) He called me chicken. 
RAY And your folks didn't understand? 
JIM They never do. 
RAY So then you moved? 
JIM They think I'll make friends if we move.  Just move and everything'll be roses and sunshine. 
RAY But you don't think that's a solution. 
JIM is silent; he picks at his nails. 
RAY (continuing) Things pretty tough for you at home? 
JIM She eats him alive and he takes it. 
JIM stares at his family through hole in door. 
JIM What a zoo! 
RAY What? 
JIM A zoo.  He always wants to be my pal, you know?  But how can I give him anything when he's--I mean I love him and I don't want to hurt him--but I don't know what to do anymore except maybe die. 
RAY Pretty mixed up? 
JIM If he could-- 
RAY "If he could" what?  You mean your father? 
JIM I mean if he had the guts to knock Mom cold once I bet she'd be happy and I bet she'd stop picking.  They make mush out of him.  Just mush. One thing I know is I never want to be like him. 
RAY (interrupts) Chicken? 
JIM I bet you see right through me, don't you? 
RAY shrugs. 
JIM How can anyone grow up in this circus? 
RAY You got me, Jim--but they do.  Want some water? 
JIM (as RAY gets a cup of water from cooler) Boy--if I had one day when I didn't have to be all confused and ashamed of everything--or I felt I belonged some place. 
RAY (giving him water) Here.  Look, will you do something for me?  If the pot starts boiling again, will you come and see me before you get yourself in a jam? Even if you just want to talk--come in and shoot the breeze.  It's easier sometimes than talking to your folks. 
JIM Okay-- 
RAY Any time--day or night.  You calmed down enough to go back now? 
JIM (smiling) You serious? 
RAY smiles and opens the door. 
RAY's office as JIM comes towards his MOTHER and forces himself to kiss her. 
JIM I'm sorry. 
MOTHER All right, darling. 
She rises and takes his arm.  They start out through the door into the hall, followed by GRANDMA and FATHER. 
GRANDMA (to RAY) This was all very unfortunate, but he made a mistake and he's sorry-- so we're not going to have any more trouble.  He's always been a lovely boy-- 
JIM Lovely!  Grandma--if you tell another lie you're going to turn to stone. 
Full shot.  JIM's backyard as JIM comes out of the kitchen door into the early sunshine. 
JUDY (O.S.) Come out of the alley, Beau!  This is the last time I'm going to call you. 
JIM blinks, pauses and sees JUDY.  He takes off his tie and puts it in his pocket.  Then he starts across the backyard, camera panning with him to: 
Full shot.  The Alley with JIM coming out his gate, JUDY and BEAU visible beyond.  He stops again. 
JUDY Beau!  All right--go to school alone! 
She starts down the alley.  BEAU skips after her and starts tightrope-walking the gutter gravel. 
JIM (calling) Hey! 
JUDY glances at him briefly, but continues.  JIM follows a few yards, but on his side of the alley. 
JIM (continuing) Hey, didn't I see you before some place? 
JUDY ignores him, but something self-conscious happens to her walk.  JIM runs across the alley. 
Med. shot.  JUDY stopping as JIM enters.  BEAU tight-rope walking on down the hill. 
JIM Hi.  I saw you before. 
JUDY Bully for you. 
JIM You don't have to be unfriendly. 
JUDY Now that's true! 
JIM (smiling) See? 
JUDY "Life is crushing in on me." 
JIM (smiling) "Life can be beautiful." Hey, I know where it was. 
JUDY Where what was. 
JIM Where I saw you. (no answer) Everything going okay now? (no answer) You live around here? 
JUDY (relieved) Who lives? 
JIM See, I'm new. 
JUDY Won't mother be proud. 
JIM You're really flipped--aren't you. 
JUDY looks up a little surprised. 
JIM (continuing) Where's Dawson High School? 
JUDY You going there? 
JIM Yeah--why-- 
JUDY Dig the square wardrobe! 
JIM (defensively) Yeah.  So where's the high school? 
JUDY (softer) University and 10th--Want to carry my books? 
An auto horn, stuck, in the distance. 
JIM I was just getting my car.  I could take you. 
The horn approaches, loud. 
JUDY The kids take me. 
JIM Oh. 
Another angle.  JIM and JUDY as the car, horn blowing, wheels into view above them and comes careening into the alley.  JUDY sees it and moves a step away from JIM. 
JUDY I'll bet you're a real yo yo. 
The strident music of the students diminishes.  The ringing of the bell stops.  There remain only JIM's footsteps. 
Long shot.  JIM moving off down the corridor.  PLATO is in f.g. looking after him.  He slams his locker and starts after JIM, moving at the same speed and hovering near the wall.  The footsteps of the two boys echo stonily.  They are alone.  JIM stops at a bulletin board near a bend in the corridor.  PLATO stops too. 
Bulletin board.  JIM looking at the notices.  PLATO drifts in several yards away and hangs near the wall watching JIM who doesn't see him.  JIM reads: 
Insert: Bulletin board, "Attention All Juniors and Seniors"-- Planetarium field trip--2 pm--Sharp!" 
Another angle.  JIM and PLATO as JIM turns from bulletin board and starts away. 
PLATO (clearing his throat) Hi. 
JIM Hi there. 
PLATO You remember me? 
JIM No.  I don't think so-- 
PLATO I'm sorry--I made a mistake. 
JIM starts toward camera as PLATO after another look, turns in the opposite direction and walks away from us, smashing his fist against the wall as he goes.  JIM stops, full in camera.  His face clouds, trying to remember.  He turns full around to look after PLATO, then turns back and continues on his way.  The footsteps fade. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Full shot.  Planetarium seen from the parking lot--a great dome crowns it--the city lies below.  Camera picks up JIM's car maneuvering through the crowded lot.  In b.g. a few other late-comers are dashing up steps to Planetarium.  JIM drives into a small lot behind observator, parks, then runs to observatory entrance. 
Full shot.  Lobby as JIM runs through, opens door of theater and passes inside. 
Long shot.  Sky full of stars seen past JIM's head. Darkness.  This is not our sky.  It is a replica of it projected onto the dome of the Planetarium.  The stars slide their tentative ways in an ever-changing pattern.  One of them is much larger than the rest and increases in size as we watch.  Music of the spheres is heard--a high threatening tremolo. 
LECTURER (O.S.) For many days before the end of our earth people will look into the night sky and notice a star, increasingly bright and increasingly near. 
JIM looks around for a seat and passes down aisle.  Seen beyond him is the projector, moving slowly, its great dumb- bell head sparkling with pin-points of light.  JIM takes a seat in front row.  PLATO, in the row behind him, moves over a seat to be nearer.  They exchange looks. 
Full shot.  Normal students watching intently. 
LECTURER (O.S.) As this star approaches us, the weather will change.  The great polar fields of the north and south will rot and divide, and the seas will turn warmer. 
Low angle.  LECTURER.  A dry, elderly man in a stiff white collar.  He is seated at a desk, the light from the reading lamp spilling upward onto his face. 
LECTURER The last of us search the heavens and stand amazed.  For the stars will still be there, moving through their ancient rhythms. 
Angle shot.  Students.  Some watching, some taking notes. An OLD LADY TEACHER in f.g. taps the heads of two kids in the row before her.  They stop their whispering.  She smiles at them. 
LECTURER (O.S.) The familiar constellations that illuminate our night will seem as they have always seemed, eternal, unchanged and little moved by the shortness of time between our planet's birth and its demise. 
Med. shot.  PLATO staring upward. 
LECTURER (O.S.) Orion, the Hunter. 
PLATO looks off. 
Med. shot.  JIM (from PLATO's angle).  JIM is seated in the row ahead of PLATO.  His lips are parted as he looks up. 
JIM Boy! 
PLATO (leaning forward) What? 
JIM (surprised) Once you been up there, you know you been some place! 
LECTURER (O.S.) Gemini, the Twins. 
Two shot.  JUDY and BUZZ.  BUZZ has his arm around her.  He is nuzzling her ear.  She is blandly watching the dome. 
LECTURER (O.S.) (continuing) Cancer, the Crab. 
BUZZ pokes JUDY who looks at him.  He curves his wrist toward her, opening and closing his first two fingers like the pincers of a crab. 
BUZZ I'm a crab! 
She laughs.  So do the others. 
Med. shot. JIM (PLATO behind).  Seen from JUDY's angle.  JIM turns at the sound of the laughter, and smiles. 
LECTURER (O.S.) Taurus, the Bull. 
Long shot.  JUDY and group.  Seen from PLATO's angle through windshield.  They are standing idly in a loose line near BUZZ's car.  They are looking back toward Planetarium. 
Med. shot.  Front of bus, seen from within.  PLATO turns suddenly and pushes his way past the kids who are boarding. 
PLATO Excuse me.  Excuse me. 
Full shot.  Parking lot.  Bus in f.g.  Beyond it JUDY and the group are visible.  PLATO squeezes out. 
MALE TEACHER John, where you going? 
PLATO I forgot something.  I'll get a hitch. 
PLATO moves quickly past the teacher who climbs in.  The door slams, the bus moves away.  PLATO stops and looks after it.  The last cars are clearing the lot.  Only JIM's and BUZZ's remain.  PLATO looks at the small, waiting group. 
Med. shot.  The group seen from the rear.  PLATO in the distance facing them. 
BUZZ What you looking at? 
Med. shot.  PLATO wild-eyed with fear. 
PLATO Nothing. 
He runs off, camera panning with him.  His goal is the Planetarium Entrance, visible beyond.  He races toward it frantically. 
Med. shot.  The group looking off after PLATO.  BUZZ, nearest camera, pulls a switch-knife from his pocket and pops the long blade open.  JUDY stares at it, then looks up at BUZZ apprehensively.  CRUNCH sits down on the bumper and lights a cigarette. 
Display lobby.  Planetarium as PLATO rushes in, out of breath, stops and looks around.  In distance he sees JIM leaning over the pendulum pit, smoking quietly.  PLATO doesn't move.  JIM hasn't even looked up. 
PLATO (screaming as if he were yelling "fire!") What's your name! 
JIM Jim.  What's yours? 
PLATO (a little quieter) Plato.  It's a nickname. 
JIM nods.  PLATO goes over to him, camera following, until they are close together, both leaning over the rail. 
PLATO Listen, I told you not to fool with them.  Now they're waiting for you. 
JIM I know.  That's why I came back. 
PLATO You scared? 
JIM I just don't want trouble. 
PLATO He has a knife. 
JIM I saw it.  Gee, look at that thing swing, will you?  Do you think it never stops? 
PLATO No.  It's perpetual motion. 
JIM Oh, I bet some little guy comes in here at night and pushes it.  Go- go-go! 
PLATO walks cautiously to the door and starts outside, camera following. 
Long shot.  Kids (corner of Observatory) with PLATO leaning out of door, seeing them, pulling back quickly. 
Inside display lobby as PLATO pulls back through the door. JIM seems to have disappeared.  PLATO stares around frightened. 
PLATO Jim? 
JIM is looking at another exhibit whose mechanical voice is heard. 
JIM I'm here. 
PLATO (coming with him) They're still there! 
JIM nods.  They watch the exhibit a while longer. 
PLATO Jim--Do you think when the end of the world comes it'll be at night? 
JIM No.  In the morning. 
PLATO looks up questioning.  JIM smiles and shrugs. 
JIM I just have a feeling. 
Close shot.  PLATO watching anxiously. 
Med. shot.  BUZZ with JUDY watching above him.  JIM enters shot until he is close to BUZZ's face.  He looks up at JUDY. Camera closes in until we are tight on the three.  The heads are nearly touching. 
JIM (softly to JUDY) You always at ringside?  You always travel in this rank company? 
BUZZ clutches JIM's hair and jerks his head up.  He cracks JIM smartly across the face with the palm of his hand. 
Close shot.  JUDY looking at JIM.  Her eyes clear in recognition. 
Another angle.  The group and JIM as JIM tears free and comes at BUZZ, slugging.  But BUZZ, with a laugh, leaps onto the parapet and turns, the knife in his hand again.  JIM stops short.  The group and PLATO move in around him. 
JIM I thought only punks fought with knives. 
BUZZ Who's fighting?  This is the test, man.  It's a crazy game. 
HELEN Les jeux de courage! 
Close-up.  CRUNCH.  He is smiling.  His arms are around the shoulders of the kids who flank him. 
CRUNCH (wetting his lips) Machismo.  Machismo. 
Med. shot.  Group. 
JIM Machismo? 
BUZZ Somebody find him a knife. 
Close shot.  PLATO seen between heads of MIL and COOKIE. COOKIE holds up a switch knife and tosses it over into the circle. 
PLATO Jim! 
Full shot.  Circle as the knife falls at JIM's feet.  JIM stoops and picks up his weapon, then faces BUZZ.  Then he springs his blade. 
BUZZ You know the action?  No cutting. Just sticking--jab real cool. 
BUZZ hops from the parapet.  They begin stalking each other. BUZZ slides his knife from hand to hand trying to hypnotize JIM.  Suddenly he pokes out and pricks JIM's shirt.  The group sighs "Ole!" JIM makes no effort at self-defense. Silence.  BUZZ pricks JIM again, "Ole!" 
BUZZ (as he maneuvers) What you waiting on, Toreador?  I thought you wanted some action! 
JIM cuts out half-heartedly. 
BUZZ Big brave bull.  Hah!  Toro!  Hah! Hah! 
GOON Moo! 
BUZZ Come on--Fascinate us.  Impress us. What's happening?  Let's go! 
JIM I don't want trouble. BUZZ (furious suddenly) You crud chicken!  You're wasting our time! 
BUZZ viciously slaps JIM across the face.  JIM lashes out and misses.  BUZZ hops back. 
BUZZ Yeah--that's pretty close.  How about a little closer, Toreador? Cut off a button and you get to join the club! 
Outside entrance of parking lot.  A uniformed GUIDE of middle-age stares past camera.  Cries of "Ole," are heard in the distance. 
GUIDE (turning) Mr. Minton!  Mr. Minton!  Trouble! 
The LECTURER appears running.  He stops short at what he sees, and blinks in the sunlight. 
GUIDE Look.  There's your audience. 
LECTURER Oh, I don't think so.  From the school? 
Inside circle.  JIM is covered with sweat and about to drop. He is getting the worst of it, still refusing to defend himself. 
Close shot.  PLATO.  He is looking on in despair. 
GROUP Ole!  Ole! 
Suddenly, with a cry, PLATO pushes through. 
Inside circle as PLATO comes through.  His eyes are wild. He holds a tire chain in his hand. 
MIL Buzzy!  Look out!  He's got a chain! 
PLATO Are you really going to meet them? 
JIM Who knows.  Plato? 
PLATO What? 
JIM What's a chickie-run? 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Downstairs hall.  JIM's house.  A single light is burning. JIM steals in from the kitchen, peers cautiously into the living room, then starts up the stairs.  A crash is heard above.  JIM stops, undecided whether to go or stay, then moves quickly up the stairs, no longer trying to be quiet. 
Upper hall.  JIM's house as JIM rises into view at the top of stairs.  He sees a figure on hands and knees mopping something off the rug.  Leaklight from the staircase dims details.  An apron is tied around the figure's waist and its bow sticks bravely in the air. 
JIM Mom? 
The figure straightens and turns around, smiling.  It is the FATHER.  He is neatly dressed in his business suit but wears a Mary Petty apron. 
FATHER Hiya, Jimbo. 
JIM leans against the wall, shaking his head and trying not to laugh.  The FATHER laughs unhappily, trying to make it all seem a joke. 
FATHER You thought I was Mom? 
JIM Yeah! 
FATHER It's just this get-up.  The girl's out and I was bringing Mom's supper. 
JIM (giggling) And you dropped it? 
FATHER (laughing too) Yeah!  Shh! 
JIM That's funny! 
FATHER I better clean this up before she sees it. 
He starts dabbing among the spilled dishes with a wet cloth. JIM watches him. 
JIM Let her see.  What could happen. 
The FATHER continues dabbing. 
JIM Dad-- 
The FATHER looks up at him. 
JIM Dad--don't.  Don't. 
JIM touches his FATHER's elbow, bringing him to his feet. They look at each other a moment then JIM goes to his bedroom.  The FATHER goes back to mopping up the mess. 
Inside JIM's room as he comes in, shuts the door and throws himself miserably on his bed.  He writhes as if the pain he feels were physical.  Outside, radios are heard in the night--tuned to different stations.  He feels under his jacket and holds up his hand to the moonlight.  There is blood on it.  He reaches up and takes his alarm clock and is setting it as camera glides to his window and holds over the rooftops. 
Full shot.  JUDY's backyard.  Moonlight.  JUDY stands near camera looking up at the moon.  The radios seem louder out here.  One breaks through. 
ANNOUNCER Time now for the seven o'clock news. Friends, the next time you go shopping. 
JUDY'S FATHER (O.S.) Judy. 
She wheels around. 
Long shot.  The FATHER standing erect on back porch, silhouetted against a window. 
JUDY'S FATHER What are you wishing for, Judy? 
Med. shot.  JUDY.  She hasn't moved. 
JUDY (softly) I wasn't wishing.  I was looking at the moon. 
Full shot.  Backyard featuring the FATHER.  We see him now as a tall and handsome man.  There is something boyish and appealing about him. 
JUDY'S FATHER (singing lightly) "Man in the Moon, how came you there-- Up in the sky where you are shining-- Floating so high in the frosty air--? Oh, say--Man in the Moon!"-- 
JUDY comes forward, stands below him on the step.  Her look is adoring. 
JUDY (astonished) How did you know that? 
She starts out.  The FATHER rises and follows after her. 
JUDY'S FATHER (softly) Hey, hey, Glamorpuss.  I'm sorry. 
She leaves the room, interrupting the joke he was going to make.  He turns back to the table and sits down.  The MOTHER rises and comes to him. 
JUDY'S FATHER (continuing) I don't know what to do.  All of a sudden she's a problem. 
The mother stands behind his chair.  She tips his head back against her body and kneads his neck and shoulders. 
JUDY'S MOTHER She'll outgrow it, dear.  It's just the age. 
BEAU (in a sudden burst) The atomic age! 
The door slams. 
JUDY'S MOTHER (kissing her husband's hair) It's the age when nothing fits. 
Inside JIM's room.  We see him lying on his bed as before. His eyes are open.  The alarm clock goes off.  JIM starts as if shot, then stops the wild ringing.  The time is seven- forty-five.  He makes no move to leave the bed.  There is a light tap on the door, then it opens and the FATHER is there, seen in light from the hall and still wearing the apron. 
FATHER You awake? 
JIM Yes. 
FATHER Listen--I took a steak out of the freezer.  I thought we could have a real old-fashioned stag party--just the two of us, what do you say? 
JIM I'm not hungry. 
The FATHER turns away. 
JIM Hey--I want to ask you something. 
FATHER (happily) Shoot, Jimbo. 
JIM Suppose you knew that you had to do something very dangerous--where you have to prove something you need to know--a question of honor.  Would you do it? 
FATHER (laughing) Is there some kind of trick answer? 
JIM What would you do, Dad? 
FATHER (evading) I wouldn't do anything hasty. Let's get a little light on the subject. 
The FATHER turns on the light and looks at JIM who is now sitting on the edge of the bed.  He removes his jacket and the bloody shirt is revealed.  The FATHER stares. 
JIM Blood. 
FATHER How'd that happen!  What kind of trouble you in? 
JIM The kind we've been talking about. Can you answer me now? 
FATHER Listen--nobody should make a snap decision--This isn't something you just--we ought to consider all the pros and cons-- 
JIM We don't have time. 
FATHER We'll make time.  Where's some paper.  We'll make a list and if we're still stuck then we ought to get some advice-- 
He goes out, to the study next door.  JIM rises. 
JIM What can you do when you have to be a man? 
FATHER Well, now-- 
JIM Just give me a direct answer! (pause) You going to stop me from going, Dad? 
FATHER You know I never stop you from anything.  Believe me--you're at a wonderful age.  In ten years you'll look back on this and wish you were a kid again. 
JIM Ten years?  Now, Dad--I need an answer now! 
FATHER I just want to show you how foolish you are.  When you're older you'll laugh at yourself for thinking this is so important-- 
During this, JIM has kicked off his shoes and put on his boots and jacket and goes out. 
Living room featuring stairs.  JIM comes running down the stairs and out the kitchen door. 
FATHER (O.S.) Jim?  Will you listen?  You can't go out till we--Jim! 
MOOSE produces one and hands it to BUZZ who goes to one of the guarded cars, motioning JIM to come, too. 
Closer shot.  BUZZ, JIM and MOOSE seen as hood is raised, revealing their faces beneath it.  BUZZ explores the motor with the flashlight. 
BUZZ Looks good. 
MOOSE Clean as a whistle.  They both got plenty breeze. 
BUZZ Look good to you? 
JIM Sure.  It's fine. 
BUZZ Okay. 
He closes the hood.  Group moves across to other car. 
JUDY and PLATO.  The other kids are behind them.  JUDY looks to see that their attention isn't on her, then speaks quietly to PLATO. 
JUDY Is he your friend? 
PLATO Yes.  My best friend. 
JUDY What's he like? 
PLATO Oh, I don't know.  You have to get to know him.  He doesn't say much but when he does you know he means it.  He's sincere. 
JUDY Well, that's the main thing--don't you think so? 
PLATO Maybe next summer he's going to take me hunting with him--and fishing.  I want him to teach me how and I bet he won't get mad if I goof.  His name's Jim.  It's really James but he likes Jim more. (laughing) People he really likes--he lets call him "Jamie." 
JUDY Want to finish my hamburger?  I only took a bite. 
PLATO Okay. 
Full shot.  Guarded cars.  JIM is close in f.g. at wheel of his car.  BUZZ is beyond, at wheel of his.  Both boys are gunning their engines, listening critically.  JIM lets his idle. 
JUDY, GOON and group.  They watch in silent anticipation. PLATO starts away from them. 
Traveling shot.  PLATO hurrying away from the group.  He stops, looking off. 
JIM and BUZZ.  PLATO in distance. 
BUZZ Better try the doors.  Jump out. 
JIM opens his door. 
BUZZ No--quick, man!  You got to break quick. 
JIM shuts his door and tries again.  So does BUZZ.  Then both boys walk forward to the edge.  Neither says a word. BUZZ puts his hand on JIM's shoulder. 
High angle.  The edge of the bluff (process).  JIM and BUZZ are directly below us.  Under them the plateau falls steeply away in a sheer drop of a hundred feet to the ocean below. 
Two shot.  JIM and BUZZ.  JIM is staring below.  He is beginning to perspire.  He lights a cigarette.  Without taking his hand from JIM's shoulder, BUZZ borrows the cigarette from his lips, takes a drag and hands it back. JIM takes another puff then tosses it into the abyss. 
BUZZ (quietly) This is the edge, boy.  This is the end. 
JIM Yeah. 
BUZZ I like you, you know? 
JIM Buzz?  What are we doing this for? 
BUZZ (still quiet) We got to do something.  Don't we? 
Long shot.  JIM and BUZZ with PLATO in f.g.  JIM and BUZZ appear to him as two close friends.  Suddenly they break and go, without speaking further, to their cars.  They back up to the opposite end of the plateau, headlights dark.  PLATO follows them with his gaze. 
Group shot.  GOON and others looking up as the cars glide by. 
Med. shot.  JUDY waiting as BUZZ and JIM move into starting position next to her.  JUDY goes to BUZZ.  JIM is in b.g.-- looking on. 
JUDY Feel okay? 
BUZZ Give me some dirt. 
She bends out of sight for a moment as BUZZ goes on talking, then hands him the dirt.  He rubs it into his palms. 
Rear view.  Edge of the bluff as the two cars go over. There is NO human sound. 
Close shot.  JIM as he stops rolling. 
BUZZ's car in flight. (Special effects).  The car soars through the night, the vehicle of a terrible journey. 
Med. shot.  BUZZ. (Process).  Surprise has gone.  He rides lightly on the thrill of his last moment--then suddenly, his face twists in a spasm of protest and loss. 
The kids staring at his flight. 
JIM unaware of the disaster--glad he made it. 
Low angle.  Edge of the bluff.  With headlights blazing, both cars dive down. 
Med. shot.  JUDY standing frozen as the spectators shove past and around her. 
Wide angle.  Edge of the bluff as spectators swarm to it, stand looking down. 
JIM on hands and knees, trying to rise.  Legs rush by him, knock him onto his face. 
Long shot. (Special effects).  Both cars plunge into the ocean below. 
JIM at edge of bluff.  He is pushing through spectators. 
JIM (a harsh whisper) Where's Buzz!  Where's Buzz! 
PLATO working his way through the crowd. 
PLATO (calling) Jim!  Jim! 
CRUNCH.  CRUNCH looks up as he hears JIM's repeated cry. JIM enters behind him, continuing blindly on his way. 
CRUNCH (tight fury) Down there!  Down there is Buzz! 
JIM looks over the edge. 
Rear view.  Spectators.  A siren wail approaches.  The kids wheel and scatter, panicking past the camera. 
Close shot.  MOOSE.  Looks at JIM.  Runs. 
Close shot.  GOON.  Turns.  Runs. 
Med. shot.  JIM seen between legs of hurrying kids.  The sirens and the pounding of their feet on the hard turf.  JIM is sitting on the edge of the bluff.  PLATO rushes in, stops short as he sees him. 
PLATO Come on, Jim!  We got to get out of here! 
JIM doesn't move.  PLATO grabs his arm and yanks. 
PLATO Get up!  Get up!  Come on! 
JIM stands.  PLATO pushes him. 
PLATO Go on!  Move! 
They start away, PLATO still pushing from behind. 
Med. shot.  JUDY.  She is standing alone in the wind on the emptying plateau.  JIM and PLATO move past in the distance. JIM sees her and stops. 
Close shot.  JUDY.  She is shuddering violently but there are no tears.  She seems not to see or hear or be aware of anything around her. 
Full shot.  JIM and PLATO watching JUDY.  JIM moves toward her, camera panning with him and leaving PLATO behind.  JIM stands before JUDY until she notices him.  He shakes his head for all the sorrow he feels, but no words come. Tentatively he offers her his hand.  After a moment, she takes it.  She knows only that help is being offered and that she will accept it with trust.  JIM leads her away toward the car. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
High long shot.  JIM's street.  Night.  There is no movement anywhere.  In the house bordering the street a few lights still burn.  JIM's car approaches out of distance and slows when it reaches the alley. 
Med. shot.  JIM's car as it slows and stops.  JIM, JUDY and PLATO in the front seat.  JUDY has the door open before the car even stops.  She is shaking, agitated and withdrawn. 
JUDY (hardly audible) This is fine-- 
She gets out and starts away, leaving door open. 
JIM (calling quietly) Judy.  Will you be okay? 
PLATO looks at him.  JUDY hesitates.  JIM raises a hand to her in a shy farewell.  She smiles vaguely, then hurries away from them. 
JIM I told you Dad, it was a question of honor.  They called me chicken-- you know, chicken!  I had to go or I would never have been able to face any of those kids again.  So I got in one of these cars and a boy called Buzz got in the other.  We had to drive fast and jump before the cars went over the edge of the bluff.  I got out okay but Buzz didn't.  He was killed. 
MOTHER Good Lord! 
JIM I can't keep it to myself anymore-- 
FATHER Well, just get it off your chest, son. 
JIM That's not what I mean.  I've never done anything right.  I've been going around with my head in a sling for years...I don't want to drag you into this but I can't help it.  I don't think I can prove anything by going around pretending I'm tough any more, so maybe you look like one thing but you still feel like another. 
FATHER You're absolutely right! 
JIM Are you listening to me?  You're involved in this!  I want to go to the police and tell them I was mixed up in this thing tonight? 
FATHER You what? 
MOTHER No! 
FATHER Did anyone see you there?  I mean did they get your license number or anything? 
JIM I don't think so-- 
FATHER Well-- 
MOTHER What about the other boys--Do you think they'll go to the police? 
JIM What's that got to do with it? 
MOTHER Why should you be the only one. 
FATHER Look Jim.  Far be it from me to tell you what to do, but there's-- 
MOTHER Are you going to preach now?  Are we going to have a sermon? 
FATHER I'm just explaining what you mean! You can't be an idealist all your life!  Nobody thanks you for sticking your neck out! 
MOTHER That's right! 
JIM Except yourself! 
FATHER Will you wait a minute? 
JIM You don't want me to go. 
MOTHER No!  I don't want you to go to the police!  There were other people and why should you be the only one involved! 
JIM But I am involved!  We're all involved, Mom!  A boy was killed! I don't see how we can get out of that by pretending it didn't happen! 
FATHER You know you did wrong.  That's the main thing, isn't it? 
JIM No!  It's nothing!  Just nothing! You always told me to tell the truth.  You think you can just turn that off? 
MOTHER He's not saying that!  He's saying don't volunteer! 
JIM Just tell a little white lie? 
FATHER You'll learn as you get a little older, Jim. 
JIM I don't want to learn that! 
MOTHER Well, it doesn't matter anyhow-- because we're moving. 
JIM No!  You're not tearing me loose any more. 
MOTHER Do I have to spell it out? 
JIM You're not going to use me as an excuse again, Mom.  Every time you can't face yourself you want to move and you say it's because of me or the neighborhood or some other phony excuse.  Now I want to do one thing right and I'm not letting you run away. (silence) Dad? 
FATHER Son--this is all happening so fast-- 
JIM You better give me something, Dad. You better give me something (stops as he sees the emptiness in them) Mom? 
MOTHER Jimmy, you're very young--and a foolish decision now could wreck your whole life. 
JIM Dad--answer her--aren't you going to stand up for me? 
Closer shot.  Mansion.  Night.  A Mediterranean villa with a large domed solarium which is connected to the main building by a low enclosed arcade.  A crash and the falling of splintered glass is heard. 
Long shot.  Promenade.  Shooting through pillars of the main entrance portico, down the long promenade outside arcade. Two figures, seen in the distance, are disappearing through a window.  Camera tracks down promenade until it reaches a broken window through which JIM is just disappearing.  When he gets inside, he reaches back and takes his leather jacket which has been spread on the sill to protect them from splinters, shakes it out and puts it on.  Running footsteps are heard approaching.  JIM looks out nervously.  PLATO bursts in, out of breath. 
PLATO Jim! 
JIM Who's that! 
PLATO It's me! 
JIM How'd you find me?  What's happening? 
PLATO They're looking for you!-- 
JIM Yeah? 
PLATO Everybody!  Crunch and Goon and everybody!  I think they're going to kill you. 
JIM We know. 
PLATO They think you told the police on them.  They--who's in there? 
JIM Judy. 
PLATO Help me in! 
JIM gives PLATO a hand over the windowsill. 
Inside arcade.  JIM and JUDY are seen in an entering shaft of moonlight.  PLATO hits the floor and disappears into darkness. 
JIM Hey where'd you go? 
PLATO I'm here.  Shut up. 
JIM Come out come out wherever you are! 
PLATO Shut up.  Are you nuts? 
JIM No.  I'm scared. 
A match flares and lights a candle on an antique Spanish candelabra.  PLATO is revealed bending over it.  He lights the other candles through the following: 
PLATO We're safe here.  I hope. (holds up candelabra) What do you think? 
JIM (gazing around) Wow!  Well now-there-then! 
His wonderment is justified.  The floor of the arcade is marble and there are marble benches and neo-Roman busts lining the walls. 
PLATO Isn't it crazy? 
JIM Wowee ow wow!  Let's take it for the summer. 
JUDY Oh, Jim! 
JIM No--come on.  Should we rent or are we in a buying mood, dear? 
JUDY (laughing) You decide, darling.  Remember our budget. 
PLATO Don't give it a thought.  Only three million dollars a month! 
JUDY Oh, we can manage that!  I'll scrimp and save and work my fingers to the bone... 
JIM Why don't we just rent it for the season? 
JUDY You see, we've just--oh, you tell him, darling.  I'm so embarrassed I could die! 
JIM Well--we're newlyweds. 
JUDY There's just one thing.  What about-- 
PLATO Children?  Well, we really don't encourage them.  They're so noisy and troublesome, don't you agree? 
JUDY Yes.  And so terribly annoying when they cry.  I just don't know what to do when they cry, do you dear? 
JIM Of course.  Drown them like puppies. 
JIM lies back with his head in JUDY's lap.  She strokes his hair and smiles at him.  PLATO looks away. 
JIM No.  Seriously.  What's your trouble? 
PLATO hesitates a moment, then leans back, cuddling between the two of them. 
PLATO I don't know but whatever it is, it's gone now.  I mean I'm happy now.  Here. 
JIM puts his arm under PLATO's chin. 
PLATO I came here before. 
JIM When was that? 
PLATO When I was here?  When I ran away. I used to run away a lot but they always took me back. 
JIM Who? 
PLATO Mom and Dad.  I used to be in my crib and I'd listen to them fight. 
JIM You remember that far back?  Boy, I can't even remember yesterday. 
JUDY Plato, where's your father now? 
PLATO He's dead.  He was a hero in the China Sea. JIM You told me he's a big wheel in New York! 
PLATO I did?  Well, he might as well be dead.  What's the difference? 
JUDY It's all right. 
JIM Sure. 
PLATO closes his eyes.  JUDY hums a lullaby as she strokes JIM's lips with a finger.  He snaps at it.  Then he kisses her hand, looks at her palm.  They whisper. 
JIM (continuing) You have a long life-line. 
She takes his palm and examines it. 
JUDY So have you. 
She kisses it, holds her cheek against it. 
JIM Ever been in a place like this before? 
JUDY Not exactly.  It's certainly huge. 
JIM How many rooms do you think there are? 
JUDY I don't know. 
JIM Should we explore? 
She looks at PLATO.  JIM shrugs--tests to see if the boy is awake, but there is no reaction. 
Carefully, they crawl to their feet.  JIM supporting PLATO's head with his hands as they do so.  JIM takes the other blanket and covers PLATO with it.  JUDY kneels on the other side and tucks it in.  They look at each other across him and smile.  Then suddenly JUDY bends down and kisses PLATO's cheek very softly.  JUDY and JIM rise. JIM takes a candle from the candelabra and leads JUDY along the edge of the pool to the glass doors beyond.  Silence except for their footfalls on the flagstone.  In the distance we see the doors open and the couple pass through. When they close again, a sob comes from PLATO. 
High angle closeup.  PLATO lying as they left him, but his eyes are open and he is crying.  Camera booms up as PLATO throws off the blanket and looks after them.  Camera booms higher until he is revealed as a small and lonely figure sitting by himself.  The pool echoes his weeping. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Inside library.  Mansion.  Night.  The door opens slowly and JIM appears with the candle.  JUDY lingers at the door.  The flickering light reveals a formerly lavish room, paneled in oak.  There is a tapestry couch, empty bookcases, some dim portraits, a leather table and several chairs around a great stone fireplace. 
JIM Hey!  Will you look at this room! (looks behind him) Judy? 
She comes forward.  JIM drips wax on the table-top and sticks the candle on it.  His hand shakes.  JUDY sits on the couch. 
JIM (continuing) Want to read any books?  Take your pick! (sits beside her) Isn't this the craziest? 
JUDY Hi. 
JIM Hi. 
He takes her hand.  She looks at him and smiles. 
JIM (continuing) What? 
OFFICER We just zeroed three kids in a heap. Crest Drive and Observatory.  Looks like house-breaking.  Send us some help.  They may be armed.  Over. 
Close shot.  PLATO asleep on the blanket.  Only a single candle burns in the candelabra.  The same low whistles heard earlier come from all around him and rise in volume. Suddenly his eyes open.  He doesn't move, but he has come suddenly awake. 
Low shot.  PLATO lying in f.g.  Next to his face are a pair of booted feet.  He looks up.  Camera pans up to show CRUNCH. He is smiling.  He holds a tire chain in his hand which he swings. 
CRUNCH Good morning. 
Full shot.  The swimming pool.  GOON and MOOSE are behind CRUNCH.  They too are armed with tire chains.  They all laugh.  PLATO rolls away from them and runs toward the deep end of the pool. 
CRUNCH Moose!  Take the steps!  Goon!  The other side. 
The boys run to their assigned places.  PLATO sees no exit. He flings himself down the ladder and into the pool.  He feints this way and that, the boys responding as if they were fencing.  CRUNCH swings down the ladder and his boots make a loud report as they hit the pool.  MOOSE advances down the steps at the shallow end.  GOON climbs onto the pool bottom at the opposite side.  The feinting continues, wordlessly, as the circle closes around PLATO.  The only sounds are the stamping of their boots as they try to distract him from side to side, and the animalistic grunts they make to scare him.  Suddenly PLATO sees an opening and plunges past MOOSE, pushing him over, and stumbles up the steps. 
CRUNCH Come on!  Let's make it! 
They stream out of the pool after PLATO.  He reaches the glass doors first, streaks though, and bangs them shut behind him. 
Traveling shot.  Arcade.  PLATO's face is visible only when the moonlight strikes him through the passing windows.  The sound of running steps behind him. 
Full shot.  Main room.  A pattern of moonlight on the bare floor as PLATO dashes in and through it.  He falls over a piece of furniture and comes scurrying in to camera, wheels around on hands and knees to face the door.  The boys plunge into the moonlit square and stop.  PLATO tries not to breathe.  A match is struck.  CRUNCH looks around, but can see nothing.  That match goes out.  The boys start up the stairs, whispering.  Immediately, PLATO crawls forward, under the piano.  He hears a murmur of voices from behind the oak door of the library--next to the piano.  He moves to it stealthily. 
Close shot, PLATO at door listening through it, on hands and knees.  His confusion mounts.  He shakes his head to clear it.  Then, suddenly he rises and tries the knob.  The door is locked.  He beats on it. 
PLATO Save me! 
The boys run across the room.  As they hit the moonlit square.  PLATO spins and fires.  Somebody drops and starts moaning.  JIM opens the door. 
PLATO (shrieks) What you run out on me for!  What you leave me alone for? 
JIM Plato! 
There is a rush of boys coming forward. 
PLATO (with hate) I don't want you for my father! 
JIM Your father! 
PLATO fires at JIM.  JIM leaps at PLATO with a cry and knocks him down. 
JIM (in rage) You crazy nut!  You crazy, crazy nut! 
PLATO (screaming) Get away from me! 
He rolls away from JIM and runs to the main door. 
JUDY Jim! 
Main door, from inside.  PLATO falls upon it, fumbles with the bolt and swings the door wide.  He steps out into the waning moonlight and we see him running down the lawn.  JIM rushes into the doorway and stops short. 
Full shot.  Mansion.  The OFFICERS are moving away from us toward it.  PLATO runs wildly toward them. 
OFFICER (sharply) Halt! 
PLATO stops, confused. 
OFFICER (continuing) Come here. 
JIM runs out on the promenade and starts over the balustrade. 
JIM Plato! 
Close shot.  PLATO.  His face is working desperately in growing panic. 
OFFICER (O.S.) Come here, son. 
PLATO No! 
JIM (O.S.) Plato! 
OFFICER (O.S.) Just walk over here quietly now-- and there won't be any trouble. 
PLATO runs out. 
Close shot.  JIM as he screams. 
Inside planetarium as PLATO lands.  He is cut and bleeding. 
OFFICER (O.S.) Come out of there. 
PLATO wheels and skitters backward across the floor of the observatory on his hands and knees until he comes to the door of the planetarium theater. 
Reverse shot.  Main entrance.  Seen from inside.  The OFFICER in b.g., PLATO in f.g.  The OFFICER appears in the entrance, then moves quickly to one side to be less of a target.  He reaches in to unlatch the door. 
OFFICER You're making it tough on yourself, kid.  Come out quietly now.  You didn't kill anybody yet. 
PLATO fires at him, then opens the door of the planetarium theater and runs inside.  The door swings shut behind him. 
Outside planetarium.  The OFFICER is hugging the outside wall.  Another siren wails and a spotlight catches the OFFICER who runs out into the light. 
OFFICER (running) Need a little help here! 
Full shot.  Parking lot as the CHIEF's car wheels to a stop. It is followed by a civilian car and a cab. 
CHIEF's car. 
CHIEF We heard firing.  He get anybody? You alone? 
OFFICER We got a cookaboo inside.  He wounded some kid earlier. 
CHIEF How'd he get in? 
OFFICER Smashed the front door. 
CHIEF Any other entrance? 
OFFICER (leaving) Down in back. 
Med. shot.  Bushes bordering planetarium as JIM climbs through them and stops short, staring in amazement.  JUDY is in b.g. 
Full shot.  Parking lot.  JIM seen in f.g. hiding in the screen of leaves.  Beyond we see the full activity--the crowd, the cars, searchlights playing on the planetarium entrance, police moving in under direction of the CHIEF. 
CHIEF (loud on speaker) Silence.  Please maintain silence. Keep back and stay off the pavements.  Keep back and stay off the pavements.  There will be emergency vehicles coming through. This warning is for your own protection. 
RAY's prowl car come in.  JIM's parents climb out, curious. RAY hurries to consult with an officer who briefs him, then hurries to the chief's car. 
Parking lot.  Several patrol cars now line the parking lot. The NEGRO WOMAN in her nightgown and overcoat pushes forward from a cab and accosts an OFFICER. 
NEGRO WOMAN What's going on? 
OFFICER I don't know, lady.  Some kid's in trouble.  Stand back, please. 
NEGRO WOMAN I got to know.  My boy run off tonight.  He had a gun with him, too. 
Med. shot.  CHIEF's car as RAY hurries in. 
CHIEF Hello, Ray--Know anything about this? 
RAY As much as you do--Loan me your mike, will you? 
CHIEF (handing it to him) Help yourself. 
RAY (into mike) I am addressing the boy in the planetarium.  I am speaking to the boy inside.  This is Ray Framek from the Juvenile Division-- 
Close-up JIM as he reacts to RAY's name.  He rises and looks off. 
RAY (O.S.) (over speaker) You are now surrounded.  You are surrounded by many armed police. Whoever you are, drop your weapon and come outside. 
Med. shot.  JIM'S FATHER standing by RAY's car, gazing off with interest.  His wife comes out and stands beside him, looks at him questioningly. 
RAY (O.S.) (over speaker) Come outside.  Clasp your hands over your head and come outside quietly-- 
The FATHER's gaze has traveled over the scene.  Suddenly he sees his son followed by JUDY, run into the planetarium. 
MOTHER Frank! 
FATHER Stay here. (goes over to RAY) That was my son! 
RAY You sure? 
FATHER I think I know my son. 
JIM takes off his jacket and holds it out to PLATO. 
PLATO Can I keep it? 
JIM What do you think? 
JIM gives him the jacket--PLATO puts it on. 
JIM You want to give me your gun now, Plato? 
PLATO My gun? 
JIM In your pocket.  Give it to me. 
PLATO I need it. 
JIM You trust me, don't you?  Just give it to me for a second. 
PLATO hands him the gun.  JIM removes the cartridges and puts them in his pocket. 
PLATO You promised to give it back. 
JIM Friends never break promises, do they? (gives him back the gun) Okay.  Here.  Now listen.  There are a lot of people outside and they all want you to be safe.  You understand that?  They said I could come in and bring you out. 
PLATO Why? 
JIM They like you.  Okay? 
PLATO Come on! 
JIM opens the door for PLATO, then follows him out.  JUDY joins them. 
JUDY Hi, Plato! 
PLATO Hi. 
Observatory as JIM, JUDY and PLATO come to the entrance. PLATO sees an OFFICER. 
PLATO Who's that? 
JIM Just a guard. 
PLATO I shot at one of them. 
JIM But you didn't hurt anybody. 
Outside observatory as PLATO and JIM come forward into the early dawn.  PLATO stops and looks off, scared. 
Slow pan shot.  The crowd.  It has grown enormously. Silence.  There are armed officers everywhere--all waiting, alert. 
Med. shot.  NEGRO WOMAN.  Her eyes are moist.  Her lips move in silent prayer. 
Med. shot.  JIM's parents.  The FATHER looking on anxiously. The MOTHER is crying against the car. 
Med. shot.  JIM and PLATO. 
PLATO Those aren't my friends.  Make them go away. 
JIM (tense; calling past camera) Ray!  Will you tell these guys to move back? 
Suddenly PLATO bolts.  JIM wheels after him. 
JIM (yelling) Plato!  Don't be a fool! 
Full shot.  Planetarium as PLATO dashes to the stairway leading to the balcony. 
JIM'S FATHER and MOTHER.  Their faces reflect panic as they see PLATO running in JIM's coat. 
MOTHER It's Jim! 
Full shot.  Balcony.  Shooting down the stairs as PLATO rushes up.  JIM closes behind him.  Camera pans with PLATO as he climbs the ladder to the ledge of the small dome.  JIM stops at the foot of the ladder. 
JIM Plato! 
PLATO Keep away from me!  I don't believe you anymore! 
