"The Relic", early draft, by Amy Holden Jones 
RELIC 
a screenplay by Amy Holden Jones 
based on the book by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child 
March 16, 1995 
TITLE CARD... BELEM BRAZIL - JULY... 
EXT. BELEM STREETS - NIGHT 
A taxi careens down narrow roadways at breakneck speeds. 
INT. TAXI - NIGHT 
In the back seat is WHITTLESLEY. Early 40's, the wreck of a once handsome man. Unshaven.  Sweat stained.  Rail thin.  Scratches on his arms, a fresh scar on one cheek.  As the taxi roars downhill towards the harbor, Whittlesley leans over the front seat.  (Italics indicate Portuguese to be subtitled) 
WHITTLESLEY Faster!  We won't make it. 
DRIVER You want to die? 
Whittlesley pulls out A KNIFE, puts it to the driver's jugular vein. 
WHITTLESLEY Do you? 
Sweat pouring down his brow, the driver re-doubles his speed. 
EXT. BELEM STREETS - NIGHT 
The taxi swerves around a corner, nearly crashing into a fruit cart, flies out of sight. 
EXT. HARBOR - BELEM - NIGHT 
Light rain obscures the bulky outlines of tethered freighters.  We hear faint laughter leavened with Portuguese phrases, distant Calypso music from waterfront bars.  One of the smaller boats, the SANTA LUCIA, is loading as the TAXI fishtails to a halt. 
Whittlesley gets out, sees the boat still at dock.  His face floods with relief. 
WHITTLESLEY Thank God. 
He tosses a handful of bills into the driver's lap, sprints up the pier as the driver shouts curses after him in Portuguese.  Whittlesley shoves past the dock hands as the last load goes onto the Santa Lucia. The boat's engines churn to life. 
WHITTLESLEY I need to speak to the captain! Where is he? 
The sailors hold Whittlesley back. 
WHITTLESLEY Get your hands off me!  I'm trying to save your lives, you fools! 
Several crew members murmur the word "loco".  Hearing the commotion, a squat man wearing a billed hat and smoking a cigar approaches.  CAPTAIN FRANCO. 
FRANCO American? 
WHITTLESLEY Yes.  Thank Christ somebody speaks English.  I'm Dr. John Whittlesley. You have some crates of mine on board.  They were shipped by mistake to the Natural History Museum.  We have to get them off the boat. 
FRANCO You have I.D.? 
Whittlesley runs a trembling hand through his hair, trying to keep control and appear reasonable. 
WHITTLESLEY No.  Let me explain.  I was on an expedition for the museum on the Upper Xingu.  Something horrible happened.  I'm the only one who got out alive.  I lost everything, my I.D., everything.  I have to make sure no one else dies.  The crates, the crates were sent out before we knew.  There's something unspeakable inside.  If your boat leaves harbor with those crates on board, I can't be responsible.  My God, if they reach New York... 
Whittlesley's fists clench spasmodically.  Franco looks to his men. 
FRANCO Loco. 
WHITTLESLEY No!  I'm not crazy!  As God is my witness, I'm telling the truth. 
Franco barks an order and several sailors grab Whittlesley by the arms.  They start to lead him back to shore. 
WHITTLESLEY Don't do this!  You have to believe me.  Your lives are in danger. 
The sailors laugh.  But with an almost super-human strength born of desperation, Whittlesley throws them off.  He pulls out his wallet. 
WHITTLESLEY Cash.  Cash, you see?  American money. 
Whittlesley throws the money down on the deck.  The breeze scatters the bills across the bow and all the men, including Captain Franco, scramble for the money, chattering in Portuguese.  While they are occupied, Whittlesley slips by unnoticed and disappears below deck. 
And the woman wearing the necklace... MARGO GREEN.  She sips her morning coffee as she makes notes on several large FOSSILIZED TEETH.  Her hair is neatly combed.  No make-up.  She doesn't need it.  She has a natural, unselfconscious beauty and a mind like a steel trap. 
At Margo's elbow is a small T.V.  A CNN world news report plays. Margo's New York Times is open to the crossword puzzle, which she's been doing rapidly, in ink.  Clearly this is a woman who likes order, with a mind that can handle more than one thing at a time. 
An alarm on her watch beeps and she fills in the last two lines of the crossword puzzle, makes one final note on the fossil specimens, and shuts off the T.V.  She reaches for her back pack and looks out at CENTRAL PARK with remarkably clear eyes. 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING 
HELICOPTER SHOT... Swooping over the fall foliage of the Park, a riot of color and botanical life... The camera picks out MARGO'S BICYCLE making its way along the winding roads, dodging taxi cabs.  Margo wears jeans, a work shirt, a fine blue gabardine jacket with a rhinestone DOUBLE HELIX PIN.  On her back is a LEATHER BACK PACK which holds her lap top computer.  She emerges from the park, catches the green light and rolls up to... 
EXT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DAY 
As Margo arrives, the camera moves up and over the building, comes to rest on the imposing turrets, intersecting roof lines, and Gothic arches of the MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.  This is not an ordinary building; it's a 19th century monument to science and mankind.  The structure fills an entire city block. 
Happy visitors pour into the museum as Margo takes the imposing wide stone steps two at a time.  We hear SCREAMS of pleasure and release, the normal raucous noises of a large group of THIRD GRADE CHILDREN. Margo is amused to find herself surrounded by kids.  Their teacher, MRS. BEASLEY, a stern woman in glasses with a thick New York accent, calls after them as they all head inside. 
MRS. BEASLEY Don't run, children!  Stay with your partner and do not run!  If anyone runs they will be sent back to the bus! 
Ignoring Mrs. Beasley, TWO BOYS charge past Margo.  HENRY and LARRY. Henry has a buzz cut; Larry has rasta dread knots.  Both are 8 years old, wear high top sneakers and shorts so big they graze their ankles. 
MRS. BEASLEY Henry!  Larry!  What did I just say! You walk right this minute!  Did you hear me?! 
Reluctantly, Henry and Larry slow to a rapid race-walk as they reach the huge doorway flanked by two Northwest Coast Indian totem poles. Above the doorway WORKMEN are hanging a LARGE BANNER.  It reads: "SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT... OPENING OCT. 29" 
INT. MUSEUM ROTUNDA/STAIRWELL - DAY 
The school children burst into a three story space dominated by a life-sized statue of a HERD OF ELEPHANTS.  The kids chatter with excitement, look up in awe.  Margo nods to a GUARD who smiles as she pins on a plastic I.D. 
GUARD Morning, Dr. Green. 
MARGO Morning Joe.  Beautiful day. 
Henry watches Margo pass through the turnstiles without paying.  He swaggers over. 
HENRY You work here? 
MARGO Yes, I do. 
HENRY What do you do? 
MARGO (leans down, amused) I'm an Evolutionary Biologist.  What do you do? 
HENRY Nothing.  I'm in third grade.  What's a revolutionary what ch'a ma' callit? 
MARGO Evolutionary Biologist.  I study how life on earth evolved over millions of years. 
HENRY (brightens) Way cool.  Then you know where the dinosaurs are. 
MARGO Fourth floor, West wing, but stay with your class. 
Mrs. Beasley heads into the museum and Larry and Henry merge with the rest of the kids.  Margo turns towards the stairwell, passing... 
IAN CUTHBERT... Museum Director... a pudgy man in wire rim glasses who dresses and thinks like a banker.  Hired for his amazing ability to raise money, Cuthbert is one of a new generation of Museum Directors whose focus must always be on the bottom line. 
MARGO Hello, Ian.  Everything ready for the opening of the Superstition Exhibit? 
CUTHBERT I'm on my way to get the last piece out of storage right now. 
MARGO I'd wish you luck but I'm not superstitious. 
CUTHBERT You will be after tomorrow night. 
Cuthbert waves merrily.  A workman uses a LADDER in the stairwell. Cuthbert is about to walk under the ladder, stops and carefully walks around it instead.  Margo smiles, goes on upstairs. 
INT. MUSEUM BASEMENT - DAY 
Cuthbert enters from the lower stairwell.  He is now in one of the hundreds of areas of the museum that are closed to the the general public.  He follows a labyrinthine route down a dim passageway lined with rumbling steam pipes.  There are storage areas on both sides labeled ORNITHOLOGY, HERPITOLOGY, CENTRAL ASIA EXPEDITIONS, AKELEY EXPEDITIONS, WHALE BONE FOSSILS and so on.  Finally Cuthbert comes to a door marked 
"WHITTLESLEY EXPEDITIONS 1978-95".  Cuthbert pauses and gets out a key, but to his surprise the door pushes open.  The lock and doorknob mechanism are both broken off!  Cuthbert frowns. 
CUTHBERT What the... ? 
He goes inside. 
INT. WHITTLESLEY COLLECTION BASEMENT - DAY 
Cuthbert flips on a light to see a tall, narrow space.  Stacks of metal shelves reach up into the gloom.  Everywhere we see spears, shields, masks, various artifacts.  Ancient tribal costumes lie shrouded in plastic like corpses against the walls.  And in the middle of the gloom, sitting ominously in the light of a sole hanging bulb are... 
INT. FROCK'S OFFICE - DAY 
Margo bursts into the unique office, which is in startling contrast to the modernity of her own.  Two large bow windows look out over the park.  Upholstered Victorian chairs in a leaf motif sit on needlepoint carpets featuring large red roses.  Plant specimens and drawings of flora and fauna line the walls.  Cardboard boxes cover the floor. Seated in a wheelchair is a white-haired man in a tweed jacket and a loud floral tie.  Glasses slip down his nose. 
This is DR. FROCK, and he's in the middle of packing.  He looks up, smiles apologetically. 
DR. FROCK Hello, Margo.  Sorry about the mess. 
MARGO Is it true?  Greg said you'd been fired. 
FROCK Yes.  Bit of a shock.  But as Cuthbert so tactfully put it, the museum needs new blood.  And since I've been here since the Mesozoic Era -- 
MARGO I don't believe it. 
FROCK Now Margo, don't overreact.  Cuthbert has to cut costs somehow.  My leaving makes perfect sense.  This isn't exactly early retirement.  I've overstayed the party a bit. 
MARGO We can't do without you.  You're one of the foremost authorities on primitive pharmacology.  You're practically an institution around here. 
FROCK That, apparently, is the problem. I'm yesterday's news.  Who needs a Curator of Plant Biology in a museum with one exhibit on plants?  Monsters and dinosaurs, cannibals and shamans are the new currency of the realm. 
Frock goes back to his work packing to hide his emotion and Margo moves to his side.  She pulls Frock's books back out of the box, returns them to his desk. 
MARGO "Phyletic Transformation and the Tertiary Fern Spike" is not going anywhere.  I'll talk to Cuthbert and put a stop to this right now. 
She starts for the door and Frock wheels into her path.  Now for the first time she sees what he's been carefully hiding... the deep pain in his eyes. 
FROCK Please.  Don't humiliate me further. 
MARGO Let me help.  I can take care of everything. 
FROCK No, Margo.  This is one problem you can't solve.  You have to stay out of it.  The fact is, I want to retire. 
MARGO How can you say that?  You know it's not true. 
FROCK Yes it is.  I'm tired and I'm no longer needed -- 
MARGO My work on fossil intermediates would be crippled without you. 
FROCK With all due respect, dear, that's bull.  You dance rings around me with your new technology.  You've left me in the dust. 
MARGO (stubbornly loyal) Your work is highly relevant.  What about your display on Primitive Pharmacology?  Cuthbert told me himself he was going to feature it prominently in the Superstition Exhibit. 
FROCK Healing plant use among the Ki tribe of Bechuanaland has been cancelled to make room for Tibetan Erotic Art. 
Frock reaches out and squeezes her hand gently with a look that says the discussion is over. 
FROCK Come on.  I'll walk you back to the elevator. 
MARGO I'm not giving up. 
FROCK You must. 
INT. MUSEUM HALLWAYS - DAY 
Frock rolls back down the hall the way Margo just came.  Margo is beside him, downcast.  She's not used to defeat. 
FROCK This isn't a death sentence.  Greg has promised to teach me fly fishing.  I'll garden.  I'll write. 
MARGO You are this museum.  It won't be the same without you. 
FROCK Everyone needs a change of scenery. I've been rolling down these halls for forty-odd years.  That's quite enough. 
Margo gets in the elevator reluctantly.  He smiles and meets her eye. 
FROCK I'll see you at lunch. 
He waves her off merrily.  But once the doors close and Margo's out of sight, Frock's smile fades and his shoulders sag.  He ducks his wheelchair quickly into the Hall of African Mammals. 
INT. HALL OF AFRICAN MAMMALS - AFTERNOON 
Two stories high, dark and dramatic.  A very special display.  Dioramas of lions, hippos, wart hogs etc.  In the middle is a large statue of a GORILLA beating its chest.  Frock takes refuge in the darkness of the exhibit.  His wheelchair sits in a quiet corner and we see him quickly wipe the back of his hands across his eyes. 
INT. MOLLUSKS EXHIBIT - DAY 
Shells and sea life line the walls.  A sign announces the exhibit "Mollusks and Our World."  The THIRD GRADE CLASS sweeps in.  Larry and Henry start to sing "Mollusks and Our World" to the tune of "Welcome to Our World", the F.A.O. Schwartz theme song.  Mrs. Beasley shoots them the evil eye and Henry whines... 
HENRY Mrs. Beasley, it's almost time to go and we still haven't seen the dinosaurs! 
LARRY What is it? 
HENRY I don't know.  But I think it's bad. 
They keep their eyes locked on the shape at the end of the hall as they back up, step by step.  Move in as their faces suddenly TWIST WITH FEAR.  THE BOYS... SCREAM BLOODY MURDER... The sound echoes in the darkness as we... 
CUT TO: 
INT. MARGO'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Margo sits up in the darkness, gasping.  Moonlight cuts across the bed. It takes a moment for her to realize that she's had a nightmare.  She reaches for her light.  As she switches it on, we see a photo on her bedside table.  It shows a group on a mountain in TIBET.  There are several people with their arms slung around each other.  At the end is a younger MARGO holding hands with JOHN WHITTLESLEY.  They appear to be more than friends. 
ON MARGO... she looks at the photo a moment, then turns off the light and lies back, alone in her bed. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST - DAY 
Yellow crime tape encircles the museum.  Dead leaves swirl in clusters and the sky is overcast.  Overnight, fall turned to winter.  The front of the museum is ringed with police cars.  Margo rides up on her bike and pauses, startled at the sight.  We watch as she crosses, has a few words with one of the officers who motions her to a side entrance.  She wheels her bike under a stone tunnel as we pick up... 
A TAXI CAB arriving at the front entrance.  Out steps SPECIAL AGENT PENDERGAST. 
INT. LOWER ROTUNDA - DAY 
Margo enters.  The huge hall is taken up by an enormous boat carved from the trunk of a single tree.  Inside it are mannequins of Northwest Coast Indians.  Milling around are at least twenty COPS.  One approaches. 
COP ID. 
Worried, Margo hands it over. 
MARGO What's going on? 
COP All employees are to go to the IMAX room for a briefing, Dr. Green. 
INT. SIDE HALL - MUSEUM - DAY 
Several cops go by with tracking dogs.  Margo looks back at the dogs, increasingly uneasy, almost bumps into... 
HENRY AND LARRY.  Surprisingly, they are alive and well and seated with MRS. BEASLEY outside an office.  Margo exchanges a look with both boys, remembering them from yesterday.  A tentative smile starts but Henry and Larry don't return it.  Serious and chastened, they drop their eyes.  Margo continues on. 
TWO COPS stand outside the door to the rest room, their backs turned to Margo as she approaches. 
COP ONE What was that?  Six? 
COP TWO Lost count. 
Margo glances past them to see an OLDER MAN wearing the badge of a NIGHT WATCHMAN, leaning over a sink.  He wipes his mouth.  Margo's eyes move down to see... THE MAN'S SNEAKERS are soaked in blood. 
INT. HALL OF ADVANCED FOSSIL MAMMALS - DAY 
More cops gather, surrounded by skeletons of primates... humans, monkeys, gorillas.  It's an odd sight.  They all look up with interest as in walks the imposing figure of... 
SPECIAL AGENT PENDERGAST.  He turns to a young eager beaver, OFFICER BAILEY, flashes his badge.  Bailey straightens to attention. 
PENDERGAST Could you please take me to the officer in charge? 
INT. CIRCULAR STAIRWELL - DAY 
Pendergast follows Bailey as they descend the rickety old metal staircase that goes into the bowels of the museum.  The hall below them is narrowand lit by an occasional bare bulb.  The stairway opens onto a maze-like set of rooms in the basement.  Everything around them is STREAKED and SPATTERED in BLOOD.  There are trails of it on the floor, the walls, the overhead light. 
Several COPS stand guard as DETECTIVE VINCE D'AGOSTA goes over the area.  He is a round, balding, man with an unmistakable air of authority.  A modern knight in shining armor in disguise... deep disguise.  He has on a cheap polyester short sleeved shirt.  His t-shirt is plainly visible underneath.  On his worn plastic belt is a badge. 
D'AGOSTA Don't touch anything until the S.O.C.  has finished with those stairs.  Keep everyone clear of the perimeter.  I don't want any contamination.  There's an incredible amount of blood evidence down here. We need more light.  Where's the photographer?  Tell him to quit eating donuts, I need him. 
As Pendergast enters, D'Agosta looks up at this serious African- American in simple black suit, white shirt and dark tie. 
D'AGOSTA Who are you?  The undertaker? 
PENDERGAST Special Agent Pendergast.  FBI. 
D'AGOSTA Vince D'Agosta.  Am I out? 
PENDERGAST Not at all.  I think we may be working on the same case.  If so, I could use your help. 
The two men shake hands.  They couldn't be more different.  Pendergast is an elegant intellectual... D'Agosta a working class spark plug who operates from the gut.  Pendergast gestures to the form on the ground. 
PENDERGAST The body? 
MARGO Warrior deity of the Kothoga, an extinct South American tribe.  Dr. John Whittlesley led an expedition that found the only known representation of Mbwun.  The statue is said to carry a curse. (she looks away, quiet) Every member of Whittlesley's expedition died. 
CUTHBERT I got the relic out yesterday to put on display.  Beauregard was there. The crates had been broken into and the contents were strewn about.  But nothing was missing.  It was downright weird.  We joked that it was the curse of Mbwun.  I'm not laughing now. 
FROCK Come, Ian.  We all know you're superstitious.  But you're among scientists here.  We deal in facts. That statue had nothing to do with what happened to Beauregard. 
CUTHBERT All I know is, everyone who has come in contact with that relic, is dead. 
INT. BUSINESS OFFICES - MUSEUM - DAY 
D'Agosta has set up a temporary command post among the antique desks and chairs.  The room is on the ground floor with a view of the park. Gawkers are outside looking in.  D'Agosta pulls the blinds in their faces. 
D'AGOSTA (mutters) Get a life. 
Pendergast is looking closely at one of the large paintings of birds that line the walls. 
PENDERGAST An original Roger Tory Peterson of a Red-Breasted Merganser.  Amazing.  I have a copy of this in my office at home. 
D'AGOSTA Can't really focus on birds at the moment, Pendergast.  I'm tryin' to keep my breakfast down. 
PENDERGAST In this violent world, I believe the only way to stay sane is to take time to notice beautiful things. 
D'AGOSTA I drink.  After hours of course.  On duty, I smoke. (he pulls out a fat cigar) Do you mind? 
PENDERGAST Not at all.  I enjoy the smell of a good cigar. 
D'AGOSTA Then you won't like this one.  It's a piece of shit. 
He bites off the end, spits it out on the floor. 
PENDERGAST Lieutenant -- 
D'AGOSTA Call me Vince. 
PENDERGAST Did you read about a boat that washed up outside of New Orleans about four months ago?  Twelve bodies on board. 
D'AGOSTA Who didn't?  Big news.  Out of Brazil, wasn't it? 
PENDERGAST Yes.  That's my case.  Now it's yours. All the corpses were badly mutilated in a very particular way. Decapitated.  Brains extracted.  Limbs torn to shreds.  It looked like the work of a large animal, but there was no sign of an animal on board. 
D'AGOSTA So the method of death is the only connection? 
PENDERGAST No.  There's more.  There were crates from this museum in the hold of the boat. 
BAILEY enters, interrupts. 
BAILEY Uh, Vince.  Sorry.  This won't wait. 
D'AGOSTA It better be good. 
BAILEY There are a couple of kids who were lost yesterday near the site of the murder.  Claimed they saw a monster. They're pretty determined to tell you their story.  You want to see them? 
D'AGOSTA (rolls his eyes) No. 
PENDERGAST If you don't mind, this could be important. 
D'AGOSTA You're kidding. 
PENDERGAST Unfortunately, no. 
INT. MUSEUM CLASSROOM - DAY 
A modern classroom that has been taken over by the police for the purpose of interrogation.  Seated on small chairs at a plain table are... 
HENRY and LARRY, looking like two little boys with a story they are desperate to share.  Standing behind them is MRS. BEASLEY, starchier than ever.  D'Agosta takes a chair across from the boys, at their eye level.  By this time of day he looks pretty rumpled and tired. Pendergast stands upright and unruffled in a doorway behind.  This isn't hard duty for D'Agosta.  He's surprisingly genial and at ease with kids.  Larry kicks his sneaker against the table leg in excitement.  Henry tugs his t-shirt. 
D'AGOSTA Hi.  I'm Lieutenant D'Agosta.  You can call me Vince.  This is Special Agent Pendergast.  You can call him... (he looks to Pendergast, so formal) Special Agent Pendergast. 
BEASLEY This is Henry Weiss and Larry Bowers. 
D'AGOSTA So... Tell us about this monster. 
LARRY We were lost and trying to find a short cut to the dino-- 
Henry elbows him hard.  Larry shuts up. 
HENRY We were just lost, okay?  And we went down this curvy staircase.  At the bottom was a big shadow. 
DR. ZIEWZIC Lovely bouquet.  After our last case, Vince took me out for a draft beer. As I recall we split the check. 
D'AGOSTA (grumbles) It's been one of those days. 
DR. ZIEWZIC (she snaps her rubber glove) Shall we get down to it, then? 
Dr. Gross wheels the gurney over to the morgue bank and slides open a drawer.  The shape under the plastic seems too small to be human.  To the side of it is a large bump, presumably the head.  The two pieces of cadaver are slid onto the gurney and wheeled under the lights.  A stainless steel bucket is placed under the gurney's outlet pipe.  Dr. Ziewzic fiddles with a microphone hanging above the body, she taps it and it gives off the proper static. 
DR. ZIEWZIC (for the microphone) This is Dr. Matilda Ziewzic, assisted by Dr. Frederick Gross. It's Oct. 28, six fifteen p.m.  We are joined by Lieutenant Vincent D'Agosta of the NYPD, Special Agent Pendergast of the FBI and a police photographer.  Let's see what we've got. 
They pull off the sheet and D'AGOSTA swallows hard, closes his eyes to keep his stomach in check.  The photographer goes green, but is determined not to clutch this time.  PENDERGAST leans closer, totally impassive.  He puts on a small pair of wire rim glasses, assumes an expression much like a man reading a menu in a restaurant. 
DR. ZIEWZIC Caucasian male.  Age about 27.  Blond. Height well I can't give a height because Mr. Beauregard has been decapitated.  The state of the body is such that other identifying marks are out of the question.  There are numerous lacerations proceeding from the left anterior pectoral downwards through the sternum and terminating in the abdomen.  This is a massive wound, two feet long and a foot wide.  The head has suffered severe trauma and the occipital portion of the calavarium has been crushed and removed.  It almost looks like... 
DR. GROSS (beat) A bite. 
Ziewzic turns to Pendergast. 
DR. ZIEWZIC What are we talking about here? 
PENDERGAST Someone who makes the Hacksaw Murderer look like Mother Teresa. 
DR. ZIEWZIC Right. (back to work) The entire brain appears to have been extracted.  May I see it, please? 
Gross passes over a grey, watery mass that sits in a stainless steel pan.  Ziewzic studies Beauregard's brain, or what's left of it... 
DR. ZIEWZIC Curious.  There's something missing. 
PENDERGAST The thalamus and the hypothalamus, perhaps? 
DR. ZIEWZIC (looks up, surprised) Yes.  Two organs the size of a walnut have been removed with what looks like surgical precision. 
D'AGOSTA What happened to them? 
PENDERGAST If you don't mind a suggestion, you might try a saliva test. 
Ziewzic, Gross and D'Agosta look at Pendergast.  The photographer is staring at the wall, silently mouthing multiplication tables to keep from woofing all over the place. 
D'AGOSTA (incredulous) Saliva test?  You mean, you think someone ate part of the brain? 
PENDERGAST Correct. 
A long moment of silence, then... Zwiezic uses a swab for the saliva test, puts the result in a petrie dish. 
DR. ZWIEZIC Okay.  One saliva test.  Now... let's look at these lacerations.  They start wide and then converge. 
D'AGOSTA Long fingernails?  Scratches? 
DR. ZWIEZIC Too extreme.  Perhaps some kind of weapon.  I'm now probing the wound and... there's a piece of foreign material deep in the muscle, lodged on a rib.  Photograph. 
The photographer gathers his courage, steps forward with D'Agosta and Pendergast.  Zwiezic rinses the object off in a beaker of sterile water.  It turns brownish red.  She holds it up.  They all stare in astonished silence.  D'Agosta swallows. 
D'AGOSTA Sweet Jesus. 
DR. ZWIEZIC It's a claw. 
The photographer's flash goes off. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. STREETS - NIGHT 
A black and white heads uptown. 
INT. COP CAR - NIGHT 
Pendergast sits in silence.  D'Agosta is visibly disturbed. 
D'AGOSTA I don't like animals.  Never have. Dog bit me when I was little.  After that I gave up on pets.  Animals are irrational.  Give me a psychotic killer any day.  If there's one thing that makes me queasy it's being part of a food chain.  My first case as a rookie, two brothers climbed a fence at the zoo.  It was late August.  Over ninety.  The polar bear was inside his cave.  Kids didn't know he was in there.  All they saw was the pool. They got to swimming and splashing. The noise woke up the bear.  By the time I arrived, both little boys were in pieces.  The bear was dragging one kid around by the foot. I can still hear the mother screaming -- 
PENDERGAST This isn't an animal, Vince.  I've been on this case four months, remember?  I've learned a few things. 
D'AGOSTA You've been holding out on me Pendergast.  You have a suspect capable of this? 
Pendergast looks over, nods quietly. 
PENDERGAST Let me tell you about it, Vince. 
MARGO I didn't imagine it.  I know what I saw.  Are you sure there are enough men in there? 
PENDERGAST They're all heavily armed. 
MARGO (stops) All right.  This is hard for me.  I'm a scientist.  I like order and logic. Sometimes too much.  There's got to be an explanation.  There can't be an animal in there.  But I saw something. 
PENDERGAST What was it? 
MARGO I don't know. (she has a thought) Mr. Pendergast.  Do me a favor.  Get me a DNA readout on that claw. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT 
All is quiet. 
INT. MUSEUM FRONT - EXHIBIT FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 
The doors to the exhibit are closed.  Doyle looks at his watch, impatient.  It's almost eleven now.  He pulls out his walkie talkie. 
DOYLE Bailey?  Doyle here.  I'm still waiting outside the exhibit.  Where the hell is McNitt? 
BAILEY Should be there any minute.  They came out a side door a while ago. Said the exhibit's clear.  McNitt's headed back to spell you. 
DOYLE I'm on double over-time, man. 
BAILEY I know.  You can go home if you want to.  I'll come relieve you myself. 
Doyle shuts off his walkie talkie, frowns.  He fidgets, looks at his watch once more. 
DOYLE What the hell. 
He turns, takes off the walkie talkie and leaves it, but then he hears something, stops.  It's a low SCUFFLING from inside the exhibit, coming from behind the closed doors.  Doyle freezes, turns. 
DOYLE McNitt? 
No answer.  Doyle pauses.  His hand goes to his gun for reassurance as he hears a footstep and a muffled thump.  He moves to the door of the exhibit, opens it and takes a step inside. 
DOYLE McNitt?  Cut the crap.  I know it's you.  You're not scaring me.  Come on. 
Silence meets him.  The shadows of the exhibit loom.  Doyle takes one more step inside, scanning the darkness with his gun.  Does he hear BREATHING?  He freezes.  Yes, he does.  The hair on his neck rises and he loses the spit in his mouth.  He takes a step backwards, but he's half a second too late.  The door SLAMS BEHIND HIM and a HUGE DARK FORM LEAPS OUT! 
INT. EXHIBIT ENTRANCE - NIGHT 
Officer MCNITT enters from a side corridor, zipping up his fly.  The hall is still.  McNitt checks his watch, sees Doyle's walkie talkie and turns it on. 
MCNITT McNitt here.  I'm outside the exhibit.  All's quiet.  But I don't see Doyle. 
BAILEY (OS) He called a minute ago looking for you.  He starts vacation tomorrow and he wanted out.  I said you were on the way.  He could split. 
MCNITT Well he's gone. 
BAILEY (OS) Any sign of a green-eyed monster? 
MCNITT (chuckles) Nope. 
McNitt shuts off the walkie talkie, settles at his post. 
INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT 
In the blackness a large shape is MOVING QUIETLY, dragging it's prey across the floor.  We move in on the lifeless form of DOYLE.  His face is rigid with terror, his eyes frozen, open wide.  The last thing we hear as the hulking form heads back into the darkness, is the SNAPPING of Doyle's skull. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MUSEUM - DAY 
Signs announce that the Superstition Exhibit opens tonight.  The museum is back in business, but not many people are going in.  A crowd lingers at the margins, pointing at the building.  Several hold a copy of the POST with a graphic photo of the bloody floor by the circular stair. 
INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - DAY 
Cuthbert stands by the window of his palatial office, looking out at the scene below.  His face is pinched with worry.  Slumped in a chair is Lieutenant D'Agosta.  Pendergast surveys some paintings on the wall. 
PENDERGAST I had no idea the Museum had a complete collection of Piranesi's Forum sketches. 
CUTHBERT If you like them, they're for sale. Another day like yesterday and half the collection will be on the block. 
PENDERGAST I've read about the Museum's financial troubles. 
Headed down.  D'Agosta chews on a toothpick, stares at Karl's home-made picture show.  The photos have all been cut from nature magazines.  They are of ANIMALS MATING in extreme positions and undreamed of ways. D'Agosta turns to Pendergast, dead pan. 
D'AGOSTA My kind of art. 
Karl, who is sixty and wears a red toupee, leers. 
KARL They keep me company.  Gets kinda lonely sometimes. 
D'AGOSTA My favorite is the two camels. 
KARL Really?  I'm partial to the skunks. 
Finally the doors open and they exit to a hail, enter another set of doors.  Now they are in 
INT. OSTEOLOGICAL PREPARATION AREA - DAY 
It looks more like a bizarre industrial kitchen than anything else. Deep stainless steel tanks line one wall.  On the ceiling near the tanks hang massive pulleys and grappling hooks for the larger carcasses.  In a far corner of the workshop is a stainless-steel gurney bearing a DEAD GORILLA.  A pink faced eighty year old man is working on the carcass with sharp tools.  This is DON OSTERBAAN. 
FROCK Did you ever wonder where we get all our skeletons?  This is the laboratory where animal carcasses are reduced to bones. (to Osterbaan) What's cooking today, Don? 
DON Zebra. 
Frock looks into a large maceration tank with Pendergast and D'Agosta. A zebra carcass can be seen under the muddy surface, its flesh and soft tissues falling off. 
D'AGOSTA Man, that's ripe. 
Frock now opens the door on a humid closet adjacent to the main room. Inside on a stainless steel table lies the corpse of a fox.  It's crawling with BLACK BEETLES which are devouring it.  D'Agosta and Pendergast watch the grizzly scene, properly impressed. 
FROCK Dermestid beetles.  The second method of preparing a skeleton, used in Natural History Museums world wide. Bugs are clean and highly efficient. They'll polish that fox off in no time. 
As Don casually peels back the gorilla's whole face exposing the skull... 
OSTERBAAN Want to have a look at a gorilla brain?  Got one right here. 
FROCK Thanks Don.  We're in a hurry.  Some other time. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
More rows of stainless steel doors under hissing steam pipes.  The light is dim here, and several bulbs are burned out.  But the numbers on the storage rooms are much higher now.  The three men come out of the darkness.  Frock rounds a last corner and wheels to a stop. 
FROCK This should be it.  Can you read the number? 
Pendergast reaches up above them and TAPS THE LIGHT BULB.  It comes on and they all see the heavy steel door of the storage area.  D'Agosta's jaw drops and his toothpick falls out.  The door has been scored from top to bottom by long, vicious, CLAWS! 
D'AGOSTA Holy shit. 
Frock stares in amazement, shaken.  He runs a finger down the deep ruts. 
FROCK Something tried to get into this room! 
PENDERGAST And failed.  These doors are solid steel. 
FROCK This means there must be an animal loose in the museum! 
PENDERGAST I wouldn't be so sure. 
Pendergast takes Frock's keys and opens the door.  It swings wide on oiled hinges.  D'Agosta turns on a light. 
INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT 
They all enter.  Nothing has been disturbed.  The crates sit in the middle of the small room, untouched.  Pendergast kneels by the only one that's been opened. 
PENDERGAST This must be the one that held the statue.  Let's see what else is inside. 
Pendergast removes the lid and hands it to D'Agosta, pulls out a BLOW DART GUN, SEED PODS, a CARVED STONE.  D'Agosta takes the lid and turns it. 
D'AGOSTA The lid of this crate is scratched with claw marks, just like the door. 
As D'Agosta studies the lid, a brittle, water damaged envelope slips out.  D'Agosta picks it up.  The envelope bears an imprint of TWO ARROWS, one silver overlaid with another of GOLD. 
D'AGOSTA Look.  It's some kind of letter. 
FROCK (excited) May I see that? 
D'Agosta hands the letter to Frock. 
FROCK It's from John.  Those two arrows were his insignia.  It's addressed to Louis Moriarty, a patron who financed his expeditions. 
The place looks like the control room of a nuclear power plant.  Two SECURITY GUARDS monitor a battery of closed-circuit screens.  D'Agosta is now accompanied by the pompous head of security, IPPOLITO.  Clearly Ippolito feels D'Agosta is pissing on his territory and he's trying to assert control. 
IPPOLITO This huge police presence tonight isn't necessary, Lieutenant.  You'll just scare people off.  I can handle the security behind scenes with this system.  It's state of the art. 
D'AGOSTA The cops are non-negotiable, Ippolito.  Why don't you just tell me how this space station works. 
IPPOLITO It's fool proof, basically.  I designed this whole thing myself. Every valuable object in the Museum carries a small electronic chip.  If anything's moved so much as an inch, we get an alarm pinpointing the exact location of the attempted theft. 
D'AGOSTA That's great if you're stopping a burglar.  Not our goal here.  Are there motion detectors? 
IPPOLITO In every exhibition room.  The museum's divided into five cells. The reception and exhibit are in cell five.  We could arm the motion detectors in cells one to four, then seal the perimeter with our fire doors. 
D'AGOSTA That would leave one exit for hundreds of people.  You'd be violating every fire regulation on the books.  We'll guard the perimeter with my men and engage the motion detectors in the other cells.  One more question.  I see a big hole.  If this entire thing is run by computer, what happens if the power fails? 
IPPOLITO (snorts) You don't know much about computers, Lieutenant.  There are safeguards built in.  We have back-up systems with redundancies.  There's no way these computers can fail. 
INT. PHYSICAL ANTHRO LAB - DAY 
Margo, Kawakita and Frock are studying the contents of the crate. 
FROCK I can't help thinking there's something that Pendergast overlooked.  If the scratches were made by whatever killed Beauregard, it wants something that's in here. 
MARGO A blow dart.  Seed pods.  A plant press.  Pretty unimpressive stuff. 
FROCK Let me see the plant press. 
Frock opens the plant press and sees a specimen inside. 
MARGO What is it? 
FROCK I'm not sure.  As you know, the Kothoga lived outside civilization on the tepui for thousands of years. Species flourished in isolation when man and pollution rendered them extinct.  This could be one of the last remaining samples of an unknown plant. 
MARGO Whatever it is, it must be common on the tepui.  John used it as packing material. 
FROCK You're right. 
Kawakita lifts out a bit of the fibers, as does Frock. 
FROCK They're curiously fleshy. 
KAWAKITA And they smell delicious. 
Kawakita TAKES a NIBBLE. 
KAWAKITA Taste great. 
FROCK I wouldn't put that in your mouth until we do a chemical analysis, Greg. 
KAWAKITA I can handle that for you while we're waiting on the G.S.E. 
Kawakita rises and exits with some of the plant. 
MARGO What about those seed pods?  Are they from the same plant? 
Frock takes a moment to study them, looks up. 
FROCK Margo, these aren't seed pods. 
MARGO What are they? 
FROCK They're eggs. 
INT. SUB-BASEMENT - DAY 
Black as night.  The only light comes from the men's flashlights. They're at a crossroads.  Crooked corridors, with arched ceilings barely the height of a man stretch in several directions.  Jonathan is crouched down, resting with the panting dogs.  The deputies are having a smoke.  They all look both uneasy and exhausted except for Pendergast.  He stares at the blueprints. 
PENDERGAST Hard to read in this light.  The ink is so faded. 
JONATHAN The dogs have lost the scent, Mr. Pendergast.  Maybe we should head back. 
PENDERGAST Not yet.  Let's try the fork to the left. 
The men reluctantly shoulder their shotguns and push on.  The hounds walk ahead, carelessly nosing the ground.  The flashlight beams illuminate lime-encrusted, cave-like walls. 
DEPUTY TWO This place gives me the creeps. 
At this the dogs begin to WHINE.  The HAIR on their backs rises in a ridge.  Pendergast turns as a BREEZE stirs his clothes. 
PENDERGAST I'm ordering you!  Cover me! 
DEPUTY TWO We'll cover you from here! 
Jonathan is disappearing in front of them.  Pendergast has no choice. Grim faced, he pulls his Colt .45 Anaconda from a shoulder harness. It's a narrow and evil-looking gun.  From a pocket comes a handful of 255 grain wadcutter and 147 grain FMJ flatnose ammunition.  He loads up, goes after Jonathan, who's no longer in sight.  Pendergast passes down a long, sloping hallway into cavernous blackness ahead.  At the bottom Pendergast stops.  He has to stoop down as he goes through an archway and into... 
A VAST ARCHING ROOM... 
A dark stream of water runs between concrete walls with tunnels going off from all sides.  It appears to be part of the sewer system.  The dog cowers in a corner.  Jonathan moves to his side. 
JONATHAN Look.  It's Hobbes!  He's all right. 
PENDERGAST Come on.  Let's get back to the others.  We can't leave them alone. 
JONATHAN It's alright.  I can tell by the way the dog's acting that whatever was out there is gone.  What is this place? 
PENDERGAST Not on the map.  Looks like it connects with the city sewer. 
Pendergast calls back down the tunnel for the deputies. 
PENDERGAST We're coming back! 
The words go unanswered.  From the hall comes a loud REPORT.  It's the shotguns, blasting desperately.  Something flies up all around them as the sound echoes.  BATS! 
Pendergast and Jonathan shield themselves from the flurry of beating wings.  Finally the animals settle and Pendergast and Jonathan exchange a look.  The silence is filled by a soft RUMBLING SOUND.  They stand together, waiting.  Pendergast points his gun at the hall leading back to the deputies.  A ridge of hair on the dog's back rises and it growls. 
PENDERGAST Identify yourself!  Who's there? 
No answer.  The rumbling continues, growing louder.  Then a dark object appears.  It comes rolling out of the hallway, bounces in front of them and stops.  Pendergast shines his light on... 
DEPUTY ONE'S HEAD!  The mouth is open wide in terror.  Across the cheek is a vicious claw mark. 
JONATHAN Oh... my... God! 
PENDERGAST (hisses) Quiet. 
And now they hear a GUT WRENCHING SHRIEK that's abruptly cut off, followed by a second rumbling sound!  Jonathan grabs Pendergast by the shirt, panicked. 
PENDERGAST Stay calm. 
They head quietly for the exit at the other end of room which seems to slope up.  After they're gone a few moments the head of DEPUTY TWO rolls to a stop. 
EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT 
Cabs and limousines tangle outside the west entrance.  A huge rotating SPOTLIGHT is now turned on.  Elegantly dressed men in dinner jackets and women in gowns rush to get out of the pelting rain, umbrellas jousting. 
INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - EVENING 
Cuthbert's putting on his tux.  He adjusts the cummerbund, humming happily as D'Agosta looks on.  D'Agosta paces, highly agitated and worried. 
D'AGOSTA I'm telling you, something's wrong. I still haven't heard from Pendergast.  I think you should call it off. 
CUTHBERT It's too late now.  Guests are arriving.  The Mayor's car is pulling up. 
D'AGOSTA I'll go down and speak to him. 
CUTHBERT (irritated) You haven't got the authority.  Only Pendergast can pull the plug. 
D'AGOSTA Pendergast may be in trouble.  Don't you understand?  He still hasn't come back.  It's been over three hours -- 
CUTHBERT He'll be back.  Relax.  We're in good shape.  Your security is air tight. There've been no more incidents, nothing suspicious.  There's no reason to call off the opening now. 
INT. GREAT ROTUNDA - NIGHT 
Resounding with the echoes of several hundred expensive shoes crossing the marble expanse and heading down the rows of palm trees leading to the Hall of Heavens.  The palms themselves are festooned with orchids and violet lights.  Somewhere inside, an invisible band is playing "New York, New York".  An army of waiters in white tie thread their way through the guests carrying large silver platters crowded with champagne glasses.  Cuthbert enters and crosses to meet The MAYOR and THE MAYOR'S WIFE.  Photographers step forward and flashbulbs pop. 
INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT 
Food is out.  Hundreds of tables are set with black linen table cloths. Decorations have a dark, haunted house theme.  A hum of activity floats up past the vast Corinthian columns into the circular dome above. 
INT. MARGO'S LABORATORIES - NIGHT 
An explosive sneeze rattles the beakers and dislodges the plant specimens.  Margo interrupts her work at the computer to hand Greg a tissue as Frock looks on. 
KAWAKITA What kind of egg is it? 
MARGO It's reptilian. 
FROCK It's like ringing the dinner bell. 
INT. ENTRANCE TO SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - ROTUNDA - NIGHT 
The crowd is now packed into the rotunda as the MAYOR cuts a red ribbon across the entrance to the exhibit and everyone applauds. Cuthbert is by the mayor's side.  He steps forward and raises his hand for quiet.  The crowd falls silent. 
CUTHBERT Thank you everyone and welcome. We're glad all of you were willing to brave the inclement weather to be with us tonight.  Our special thanks to his honor, the mayor and his lovely wife. 
The Mayor takes a bow.  More applause. 
CUTHBERT (CON'T) Some people have questioned whether a superstition exhibit belongs in a Museum of Science.  Spells, incantations, demons, magic... these are forces that defy the natural laws.  Superstition provides answers to the great questions based on fear.  Science provides answers to the great questions based on truth. Science and superstition, then, are polar opposites.  Mortal enemies, if you will.  And that is why we are here tonight.  We have come to learn more about the enemy, and thus to bring about its defeat.  For every good, there is an evil, for every dark, a light.  And so tonight... my friends, I give you ignorance, terror, unreasoning fear, pure evil. (smiles, gestures to the exhibit) Have a great time. 
Everyone laughs, applauds again as Cuthbert and the Mayor lead the way inside.  Kawakita is making his way over to D'Agosta.  The crush at the entrance is incredible. 
KAWAKITA Lieutenant!  It's me. 
D'AGOSTA What is it? 
KAWAKITA Dr. Green has to see you! 
D'AGOSTA Got my hands full here. 
KAWAKITA It's important.  Please.  You have to come!  Pendergast, too.  She's found out something. 
D'Agosta pulls out his walkie talkie. 
D'AGOSTA McNitt?  D'Agosta here. 
INT. SECURITY COMMAND CENTER - MUSEUM - NIGHT 
Officer McNitt stands in the corner of the computer room, bathed in neon light.  Running the security system is GEORGE, your basic computer nerd.  Multiple screens all over show various rooms in the museum.  Most are empty with the exception of those showing the exhibition.  On these, the crowds can be seen entering the various rooms.  McNitt holds his walkie talkie. 
MCNITT Yeah Lieutenant?  I'm here. 
D'AGOSTA (ON RADIO) I'm heading to the Evolutionary Bio labs.  Any sign of Pendergast? 
MCNITT Not yet. 
At this moment a NOISE comes from the adjoining room.  McNitt's head SWIVELS.  It's a LOUD THUMP. 
MCNITT Hold on Lieutenant. (to George) What was that? 
GEORGE Probably just something wrong with the air conditioning.  There's a shit load of electrical rooms back there. 
George is playing an elaborate computer game and not paying attention. McNitt returns to his walkie talkie as the THUMP comes again.  Now he looks distinctly nervous. 
MCNITT Lieutenant?  There's something wrong in the computer room. 
D'AGOSTA (ON RADIO) Goddamn it.  I'll get Ippolito and send him up. 
George rises. 
GEORGE You're over-reacting.  Sounds like the air conditioning to me. 
McNitt watches uneasily as George opens the door, disappears into the next room. 
INT. ENTRANCE - SUPERSTITION EXIBIT - NIGHT 
D'Agosta turns to Kawakita who waits, shifting from foot to foot. 
D'AGOSTA Damn.  There's some kind of problem in the computer room.  I have to go get Ippolito.  You wait here. 
D'Agosta heads into the exhibit before Kawakita can protest. 
INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT 
We see various cuts of people as they move into the different rooms.  A TEENAGE GIRL (LAUREN) and her FATHER (DAVID) examine a lidless, rotting European style coffin, complete with corpse.  A white haired gentleman (DR. POUND), leans on his cane as he looks at a display on primitive medicine practiced with implements that look like torture tools. 
Cuthbert and Ippolito are at the head of a press of people, giving the MAYOR and HIS WIFE a guided tour. 
CUTHBERT Here we have a very rare sacrificial table from Mesoamerica.  The priests would kill the victim on this slab, cut out the heart and eat it while it was still beating. 
MAYOR I could use one of these things in City Hall. 
Cuthbert laughs right on cue.  They pass a Congo power figure with its bulging eye sockets and torso riddled with sharp nails.  Several people recoil from it, looking repulsed.  The MAYOR's WIFE sees it and looks distressed. 
MAYOR'S WIFE You're letting kids see this?  I should think they'd have nightmares. 
KAWAKITA What happened?! 
D'AGOSTA There's a dead body in the exhibit! People are panicking, trampling each other trying to get out. 
Ippolito runs over to join them. 
D'AGOSTA What the hell is going on?! 
Above them THE LIGHTS dim again and come back on. 
IPPOLITO The whole system is shutting down! We have to get out quickly before the fire doors fall! 
D'AGOSTA What doors? 
IPPOLITO I told you!  They seal off all the cells.  They were designed to fall automatically in a system failure -- 
D'AGOSTA You said the system couldn't fail! 
At this there's a low rumble from above.  D'Agosta looks up and sees A LARGE METAL DOOR IS DESCENDING from a slot in the ceiling, and not in an orderly fashion.  It's falling fast.  Below are crowds of people, all pushing to get out!  Officer Bailey, near the door, sees it. 
BAILEY Above you!  Look out! 
His voice is lost in an ocean of screaming.  Kawakita stands in total horror a moment, then joins Bailey and D'Agosta. 
All of them try to restrain people from trying to beat the door. Ippolito, on the other hand, elbows his way to the front of the fleeing crowd! 
D'AGOSTA Ippolito!  Get back here! 
IPPOLITO Like hell! 
Ignoring D'Agosta, Ippolito pushes past.  He barrels over an OLD MAN who stumbles and falls DIRECTLY BENEATH THE FALLING DOOR!  Ippolito jumps over him and is out! 
The old man looks up at the descending wall of steel and SCREAMS! D'AGOSTA runs forward, dives for the old man but he's not in time. 
Kawakita covers his eyes, unable to watch as the lights flicker a third and last time.  The room is plunged into darkness.  And over the screams we hear the rumble and CRASH, the horrifying cries of the old man, as the door comes down. 
INT. MARGO'S LAB - NIGHT 
Margo and Frock stand in the darkness.  Through a high window we can see lightning flash. 
MARGO What's going on? 
FROCK Some kind of power failure.  Maybe it's the storm.  Do you have a flashlight? 
MARGO I think so. 
She gets one from a cupboard. 
FROCK Greg's been gone over a half hour. We'd better get out of here.  Get the crate. 
INT. HALLWAYS - NIGHT 
Frock wheels his chair as fast as he can.  Margo runs beside him carrying the crate with the fibers inside.  A peel of thunder ends and distant screaming is heard.  Margo stops, appalled. 
MARGO Dr. Frock.  Did you hear that? 
FROCK Don't stop now. 
Up ahead they hear METALLIC RUMBLING and a CRASH!  They round a corner and come up against a huge STEEL DOOR. 
MARGO What's that? 
FROCK It's one of the fire doors.  Good Lord, Margo.  We're trapped! 
INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT 
Pendergast stands at the end of a cul de sac, studying the blue prints by a stone wall.  Jonathan and the dog are with him, exhausted and terrified.  Jonathan keeps an eye on the corridor behind them as Pendergast works. 
PENDERGAST I know where we are now.  We're getting out, Jonathan.  This should be another door. 
Taking a pen knife from his pocket, Pendergast places it into the plaster and gently twists the blade.  A piece of plaster the size of a dinner plate falls, revealing the tracings of another doorway. Pendergast shoves the door open to reveal a dark, dusty room. 
JONATHAN Hallelujah, Pendergast.  Where the hell are we now? 
INT. "ALCOHOLIC" ROOM - NIGHT 
Jonathan and Pendergast enter quickly from the hidden rear door. Pendergast shines his beam on dusty shelves filled with specimens.  All are stored in jars of alcohol.  There are fetuses of many different species.  We see a pig, a cow, a duck billed platypus as well as brain sections, a disembodied monkey head.  One rectangular glass container holds a skinned human foot. 
As the flashlight beam hits it, MBWUN roars and looks up.  Now we see it clearly for the first time.  The monster is MASSIVE, putrid, rank. Slit reptilian green eyes are rimmed in red.  A ridge of stiff black hair rises on the creature's buffalo-like humped back.  The withers are muscled and covered with plates.  A forked TONGUE licks out as purple lips draw back exposing razor sharp teeth.  The claws raise up to fend off the light. 
PENDERGAST steadies himself with difficulty, takes a few seconds to aim with the greatest care.  Mbwun makes a move towards him and he squeezes the trigger hard.  The gun echoes in the hall.  A split second and a white streak moves right up the beast's cranium.  A direct hit. The shot echoes and Mbwun drops it's claws. 
The flashlight continues to shine like a high beam right into the beast's eyes.  Angry and blinded, the creature turns and in a moment, lopes off.  Pendergast watches, unimaginably relieved.  Realizing what just happened, his knees start to buckle.  He catches himself, wipes one hand across his eyes.  A voice comes from the storage room. 
MARGO (OS) Pendergast?  Are you all right? 
PENDERGAST No.  I think I'm hallucinating. 
The storage door opens slowly and Margo looks out. 
MARGO You're not.  Where is it? 
PENDERGAST (shakes his head) Gone. 
MARGO Wounded? 
PENDERGAST No.  A chromium alloy tipped .45 caliber bullet bounced off that thing's skull like a spit ball.  I think it was bothered by my light. 
MARGO That would fit.  It's nocturnal. Quick.  Come inside. 
EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT 
As hundreds of the guests emerge into the pounding rain... crying, terrified, unclear what exactly happened.  These are the lucky ones. Among them we find IPPOLITO.  His walkie talkie is squawking.  The windows of the museum behind him are black. 
D'AGOSTA ON RADIO Ippolito!  Where the hell are you? We're trapped in here!  We need help! Ippolito!  Come in, dammit! 
Ippolito sits down on the steps in the rain, knowing the extent of what he's done.  The wheels are working hard now, trying to figure out damage control.  The walkie talkie keeps calling.  He doesn't respond. 
INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT 
Tables are overturned, food lies on the ground, people cower in the darkness.  D'Agosta crouches in some broken glass with his walkie talkie.  He shuts it off, rises, looks around.  Light comes from a few sputtering candles. 
Most of the guests still trapped inside are grouped around the lowered steel door.  Among them are KAWAKITA and CUTHBERT.  From the BODY of the man crushed underneath the door extends a large puddle of blood. Bailey is working in desperation on a brass panel by the door. 
BAILEY Manual overrides aren't working.  I'm getting nothing, Lieutenant. 
D'AGOSTA Great. 
Frank, the father of the teenage girl, Lauren, steps forward. 
FRANK There's no power.  The whole system's down. 
The crowd starts to murmur.  One man yells. 
MAN We're trapped!  And there's a killer in here! 
D'AGOSTA We'll get out safely if everyone stays calm.  Is anyone else hurt? 
The MAYOR stands.  His wife's forehead is bleeding. 
MAYOR Yes.  My wife. 
D'AGOSTA Is there a doctor? 
The distinguished grey haired man with a cane comes forward.  DR. POUND. 
POUND I'm Dr. Pound. 
D'AGOSTA Check this woman and see if anyone else needs you. 
Pound moves off.  Everyone spins now at the incongruous sound of a DOG BARK.  D'Agosta pulls his gun.  The door to a stairwell at the far end of the room opens and Hobbes bounds into the hall!  He's followed by Jonathan, who is filthy and wild-eyed. 
JONATHAN (calls) Lieutenant D'Agosta!  Don't shoot. 
D'AGOSTA Where's Pendergast? 
JONATHAN (crossing, breathless) Five flights down.  We were lost in the sub-basement.  Something's down there.  It killed our two deputies. When I left Pendergast it was coming back.  He sent me for help.  We have to hurry. 
D'Agosta makes a quick sweep of the room with his flashlight.  The remote corners of the hall are so black the light seems to disappear. In the center, two men are bending over a still form.  One of them is Dr. Pound. 
D'AGOSTA Both of you.  Get back here. 
POUND But he's still alive -- 
D'AGOSTA Get back now! 
D'Agosta throws open the doors and charges into the Hall.  Jonathan lies on the ground, dazed.  Kawakita stands to one side, teeth chattering in shock.  His hand shakes so badly that the barrel of the gun swings in his hand. 
D'AGOSTA (yells) Where is it?! 
JONATHAN I don't know!  It hit me hard. 
D'Agosta pumps two shells in the shotgun.  Screams can be heard from the people crouched together at the edge of the room.  Hobbes is barking wildly, foaming at the mouth.  It's too dark to see what's happening. 
D'AGOSTA (screams) Somebody tell me!  Where is it now? 
MAYOR (quiet) Lieutenant.  In the south corner. 
D'Agosta sweeps his light to the Mayor who stands rigid in front of the others, points to his left.  The light moves to the far end of the room where THE DARK SHAPE OF MBWUN crouches over the body of a man. It's lunging up and down with odd, jerking motions.  The man is long past making a sound.  From the monster comes a faint crunching and slobbering.  Jonathan rises, comes to D'Agosta.  So does Frank.  They stand shoulder to shoulder, raise their guns.  D'Agosta motions for Kawakita. 
D'AGOSTA On three. 
Kawakita stumbles to join them, tries to join in.  The barrel of his shot gun still swings wildly.  He steadies it by taking it in both hands. 
D'AGOSTA One, two... three. 
All three fire.  There's a loud report.  The kickback knocks Kawakita backwards.  Screams erupt from the huddled group.  Hobbes abruptly shuts up.  The men fire and fire until there's nothing left.  D'Agosta reaches for more shells, comes up empty. 
D'AGOSTA Jonathan!  Get everyone behind me! 
Jonathan moves.  D'Agosta sweeps his light across the room but already the shape is gone.  Cuthbert hides behind the Mayor, calls out in a terrified squeal. 
CUTHBERT It went out the door to the rotunda! 
D'Agosta runs across the room to a set of double industrial doors. There's a noise in the darkness beyond and he just manages to slam both doors.  He picks up a metal chair and jams it through the handles. Backs up.  The doors shudder as something hits them hard. 
D'AGOSTA Get everyone into the stairwell! 
Jonathan, the Mayor, Cuthbert and Kawakita together herd everyone towards the stairwell.  They move inside. 
INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT 
Dark and close.  The smell of gunpowder and death.  The Mayor's Wife sees Bailey's body and clutches her mouth so as not to throw up. 
CUTHBERT Sweet Jesus! 
D'AGOSTA Get his gun and his walkie talkie, Jonathan.  Move. 
CUTHBERT My office is on the third floor! There's a walk-in safe and a portable phone!  We can lock ourselves in the safe and call for help! 
D'AGOSTA I have to help Pendergast.  Kawakita and Jonathan stay with me.  The rest of you can go with Cuthbert! 
MAYOR I think we should stick together! 
FRANK (taking Bailey's shotgun) Me too. 
CUTHBERT I'm leaving.  Whoever wants can come with me. 
No one follows. 
D'AGOSTA Wait! 
Cuthbert's gone. 
D'AGOSTA Jonathan, go with him!  He isn't armed. 
Jonathan grabs Hobbes' leash from the Mayor and bounds up the stairs. 
MAYOR Good luck! 
Everyone else follows D'Agosta.  Together, they head down. 
EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT 
Police cars are pulling up outside the museum.  Sirens wail.  Torrents of rain limit the number of onlookers.  Crowds of people are scattered about.  There's disbelief on everyone's faces.  Many people are in shock.  Ippolito sprints through the pelting rain to a GUARD STATION near the gate.  He yanks the door open and jumps inside. 
INT. GUARD STATION - NIGHT 
A number of museum security personnel are milling in confusion. 
IPPOLITO All right everyone.  I'm in charge. Status report. 
One of the security men, WATERS, rises. 
FROCK We can't.  We've managed to get inside the one place that's safe.  I think we should sit tight and wait for reinforcements.  If we go outside, we're risking more lives. You have to accept it, Margo, there's nothing we can do.  The building must be swarming with police by now.  It won't take long for them to get through the doors. 
MARGO That thing could kill ten people in a matter of minutes. 
PENDERGAST But what can we do?  Our guns are useless -- 
MARGO We have the fibers.  Don't you see? The creature is hungry.  It wants the hormones in these plants.  It would take hundreds of human brains to supply what's in these fibers.  We're just a poor substitute.  To make it stop hunting, we have to give it what it wants. 
INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Cuthbert enters with Jonathan and the dog, Hobbes.  Cuthbert locks the door with shaking hands.  He mutters to himself in terror. 
CUTHBERT Solid oak.  Two inches thick.  Tell me they'll hold. 
Cuthbert scurries to his desk and pulls out a Ruger .38 Magnum. 
CUTHBERT I got it after I was mugged in the subway last spring. 
JONATHAN Where's the walk-in safe? 
CUTHBERT Behind you. 
JONATHAN What's the combination? 
CUTHBERT I'll do it.  Just let me find my portable phone. 
He rummages in the darkness, going through his desk. 
JONATHAN Forget it! 
CUTHBERT Calm down.  I found it! 
Cuthbert flips the phone open and turns it on. 
CUTHBERT Battery's dead.  Shit. 
JONATHAN Let's go! 
Cuthbert crosses to a huge wall safe, starts frantically turning the tumblers.  Jonathan follows with the dog. 
CUTHBERT That thing won't come after us, right?  It's going for bigger game. The group blundering around in the basement.  Poor fools. 
JONATHAN Hurry up! 
CUTHBERT Just a minute.  I'm shaking!  Take the gun. 
Cuthbert fumbles to hand over the Ruger.  As he does, something drops. 
CUTHBERT Oh God!  I dropped my rabbit's foot! 
Cuthbert drops to his knees, groping in the darkness. 
JONATHAN For Chrissake, I'll do it.  What's the combination?! 
CUTHBERT To the left twice then five no... sorry... I think it's fifteen... it's been a while... 
JONATHAN Oh Jesus... 
Jonathan starts again, sweating.  The tumblers fall with agonizing slowness.  Cuthbert continues groping frantically for his good luck charm.  Meanwhile, unnoticed by Jonathan, the dog is staring at the oak doors.  We see the HAIR ON HIS BACK rise! 
JONATHAN Fifteen... what's next? 
CUTHBERT Eight to the right!  Look!  I found it! 
Clutching the rabbit's foot like a talisman, Cuthbert leaps up just as the last tumbler falls. 
At this the oak doors behind them CRASH OPEN, splintering like so many match sticks. 
Cuthbert SCREAMS in a high pitch whine at the sight of the beast.  The dog barks wildly at Mbwun!  Jonathan lifts his shot gun.  But the monster barrels past him and zeros in on Cuthbert! 
A HUGE RED TONGUE LICKS OUT and encircles Cuthbert's waist!  It squeezes him horribly, drags him towards the open jaws!  Cuthbert bellows like a lamb being led to the slaughter.  He opens his hand and the rabbit's foot drops!  The last Jonathan sees of Cuthbert is his head disappearing down Mbwun's throat. 
Hobbes barks and whines in terror.  Jonathan takes the leash and drags the animal out. 
INT. MUSEUM HALLWAYS - NIGHT 
Jonathan and Hobbes tear down the hallway and disappear.  Behind them comes a roar so loud it rattles the walls. 
ON D'AGOSTA... he reaches the second fork and takes a right.  This tunnel is narrower and consequently the water is even deeper.  Slimy plants hang down and slap at their faces as they push on.  D'Agosta pulls out his walkie talkie. 
D'AGOSTA Pendergast?  I made the right hand fork.  We're already in about three feet of water.  Where should we go? 
But before Pendergast can answer, D'Agosta hears the loud report of Frank's gun!  Everyone freezes in the darkness.  The walkie talkie cackles and D'Agosta shouts! 
D'AGOSTA Hello! 
FRANK (OS) Sweet Jesus, help! 
They hear SPLASHING in the water.  Lauren SCREAMS, tries to run back. Kawakita grabs her.  There's more thrashing water and then silence. 
D'AGOSTA Frank!  Are you all right! 
D'Agosta starts for Frank but the Mayor catches his arm and holds him. 
MAYOR It's too late! 
Everyone waits, staring into the darkness.  Still no answer.  Lauren SCREAMS AGAIN. 
LAUREN Dad! 
D'Agosta turns his flashlight on the water.  It's running red!  He spins to the Mayor, points down the tunnel. 
D'AGOSTA Run! 
People start to cry and whimper as the Mayor urges them on.  He takes charge of Lauren.  Only Greg Kawakita stays with D'Agosta.  They stand shoulder to shoulder and completely alone.  Thrashing in the water can be heard as the beast comes closer.  There's a low, pleasurable growl! Both men lift their guns. 
D'AGOSTA On three. 
Kawakita nods.  Behind them in the tunnel is total blackness.  Ahead is equally dark.  The noise of their friends gets ever fainter.  The water now rushes half way up their thighs.  Kawakita's teeth start to chatter.  He bites them shut, steadies his gun. 
D'AGOSTA One... two... 
Silence as the water murmurs.  D'Agosta holds the count.  A long, agonizing moment.  Kawakita takes his eyes away from the tunnel. 
KAWAKITA I think it's gone. 
Suddenly a HUGE CLAW snakes out of the water right in front of them and the beast roars up!  It was beneath the surface, directly before them!  The claw closes on D'Agosta and his shot gun goes off.  D'Agosta screams as the beast lifts him towards its mouth! 
For one horrible moment, Kawakita is frozen.  Then he leaps forward, shoves the barrel of his gun behind D'Agosta, right in the beast's open jaws!  He pulls the trigger and the shotgun explodes, the recoil throwing him back, ass over tea cups in the water.  With a roar of pain the monster drops D'Agosta and retreats in the dark.  D'Agosta grabs Kawakita. 
D'AGOSTA I think you took its tonsils out! 
They haul ass down the tunnel, firing behind them as they go.  Ahead is another fork.  The group is waiting.  When they see D'Agosta and Kawakita, a cheer goes up. 
MAYOR Which way! 
As he runs up, D'Agosta grabs for his walkie talkie.  The holster IS EMPTY, the walkie talkie gone!  Without missing a beat he registers what's happened, then covers it up with the next breath.  He points to the right as if there's no doubt and says... 
D'AGOSTA This way! 
D'Agosta exchanges a look with Kawakita, who understands exactly what happened.  As they plunge into the right tunnel, Greg mutters... 
KAWAKITA Holy shit. 
INT. HALL OF THE AFRICAN MAMMALS - NIGHT 
Pendergast and Margo come out of the door leading to the back entry to the dioramas.  Pendergast holds the walkie talkie, desperate. 
PENDERGAST Vince?  Can you hear me?  Vince! 
Nothing but static comes in response.  Margo paces in agitation. 
MARGO We have to try and draw it off! 
PENDERGAST How? 
MARGO The answer's right in front of us. 
She points to one of the dioramas.  It shows a bird being stalked by a fox. 
MARGO That's a ptarmigan, feigning a broken wing.  The bird pretends to be injured to draw the fox away from its nest! 
PENDERGAST (starts running) It's deceptively simple.  Like a Bruckner Symphony or a Matisse. 
Margo heads for the Planetarium, calling... 
The group has reached another intersection of tunnels.  The left fork turns back uphill.  D'Agosta indicates this tunnel. 
D'AGOSTA At least we'll be dry. 
They all press forward in the low vaulted darkness.  As they move steadily upwards the water recedes.  Kawakita's flashlight flickers and he bangs it.  It comes on again. 
KAWAKITA I believe in you a hundred percent, Vince, but that's the second time we've been at that intersection. 
D'AGOSTA Not so loud. 
D'Agosta shines his light forward and they see that the shaft ends in a large round PIPE. 
KAWAKITA What's that? 
D'AGOSTA All right everybody, hold up! 
Kawakita and D'Agosta move past the shivering people who are strung out along the sides of the tunnel.  D'Agosta touches each person as he passes. 
D'AGOSTA We don't know what's in there.  Let me go first. 
INT. PIPE - NIGHT 
The Mayor follows behind with the group as Kawakita and D'Agosta lead the way.  The pipe is dry and rusted.  They move forward with stealth. In twenty feet the pipe ends abruptly in darkness.  D'Agosta steps out first. 
INT. CAVERN - NIGHT 
The group huddles at the mouth of the pipe, confused, as D'Agosta pans his flashlight around the huge space.  The walls are carved out of dirt and rounded like a cave.  From the ceiling hang huge cobwebs.  There's a large pile of sticks in one corner fashioned rather like a bed.  On a mound of dirt beside this bed rests a battered duffel bag. 
Greg moves to it, shines his light on the side.  A name is written in marker. 
D'AGOSTA What does it say? 
KAWAKITA (looks up, shocked) Dr. John Whittlesley. 
D'AGOSTA What's that doing here? 
KAWAKITA I don't know.  I thought Dr. Whittlesley died in South America. 
MAYOR (interrupts) Look.  There's a ladder at the end.  I think it goes up to the street! 
They move forward into the darkness eagerly, towards the ladder which leads up to a manhole.  But as they pass the bed of twigs, something loud CRUNCHES underfoot. 
KAWAKITA What is that? 
D'Agosta shines his light down and everyone freezes.  Then one woman SCREAMS! 
The wide dirt floor around them is carpeted in clean white BONES!  The HUMMING noise is louder and we see its source.  Atop the bones is the body of CUTHBERT!  It's covered with BLACK DERMESTID BEETLES.  They're stripping the skeleton clean, devouring the flesh! 
The group panics and breaks for the ladder.  Kawakita and D'Agosta once more guard the rear. 
KAWAKITA Dear God.  Where are we, Lieutenant? 
D'AGOSTA I'd say we're in its home. 
INT. HALL OF THE NORTHWEST COAST INDIANS - NIGHT 
Pendergast and Margo run down the long dark room, passing an enormous hollowed-out canoe.  As they exit the far end, the dark shape of Mbwun emerges.  It leaps forward, closing in fast. 
INT. HALL OF THE ASIAN PEOPLES - NIGHT 
Margo and Pendergast enter a series of maze-like room with hidden corners, nooks and crannies with cases full of esoteric Buddhist and Japanese Art.  They're running through the twists and turns as fast as they can. 
PENDERGAST We're not going to make the storage room! 
MARGO Listen to me, Pendergast.  Mbwun's DNA is part homo sapien.  In primates, the eye is a direct path to the brain!  If you get a clean shot, there's only one place you can kill it.  Shoot it in the eye! 
AT THIS THEY ROUND A CORNER AND MBWUN LEAPS OUT!  It circled ahead and was waiting in front of them!  The animal swipes at Margo and Pendergast.  The force of the monster's blow sends Margo reeling and slams Pendergast into the wall.  He falls, crumples and drops his gun! The case beside him SHATTERS spewing relics, as Mbwun pushes past. Pendergast groans and gets to his knees with difficulty. 
MARGO is frantically crawling away in the dark!  The beast makes a low sound of pleasure and reaches out one claw, easily pins her down. Pendergast looks frantically for any kind of weapon! 
ON MARGO now PINNED BENEATH the heaving body of the monster! Powerless, she looks up into the horrible face of death as Mbwun raises an enormous claw!  Pendergast, desperate, cries out -- 
PENDERGAST Please, no!  Don't hurt Margo! 
Oddly enough, the beast pauses for once.  Talking to the damn thing is the one tactic no one has tried!  The claw halts in mid-air.  The beast blinks once and looks from Pendergast to Margo.  Margo sees a flash of something unexpectedly HUMANin its eyes!  In astonishment, she whispers... 
MARGO My God.  You understand. 
