THE REPLACEMENTS 
by 
Vince McKewin 
SECOND DRAFT 
February 19, 
FADE IN: 
EXT. MARINA DEL REY - DAY 
It's raining lightly in the harbor and the water around the moored boats looks dirty and cold. 
We PICK UP a sad excuse for a boat sitting in an end slip. 
It's a sea-gull-shitcovered, thirtyfoot cabin cruiser that hasn't cruised in a long, long time. A ratty looking unpainted plywood addition has been nailed to the top of the cabin. It's partially covered with a blue plastic tarp. 
SUPERIMPOSE:   MARINA DEL REY, CALIFORNIA - FALL 
The tarp moves and SHANE FALCO's half-naked torso emerges from under it. Shane is late twenties, golden boy handsome, but quickly going to seed. He looks hung over. 
Shane glances up at the sky and rain. He pulls on the top part of an old patched wet suit and zips it up. He shivers. 
EXT. MARINA DEL REY HARBOR - DAY 
We're BUZZING around the harbor with Shane in an old Zodiac inflatable DINGHY. 
Shane has pulled up the attached rubber hood to his wet suit so that only the white, pasty oblong of his face is visible. 
It's still raining as he steers the little boat around the sailboats and yachts. 
He pulls up to a fiftyfoot sailboat and CUTS the ENGINE. 
With practiced moves, he ties the dinghy to the rear rail of the sailboat and clips a bill for services rendered on the sailboat's stern line. 
He slips on a weight belt,    puts on a pair of old gaffer taped goggles,    jams the end of a air-hose in his mouth, and    falls backward out of the dinghy and into the    water. 
EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY 
It's dark, dirty and murky. Suddenly, Shane floats INTO FRAME and comes AT us with a long spatula. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
He attacks the underside of the sailboat which is covered with green algae muck that hangs a foot off the bottom of the boat. 
The spatula scrapes away the green mess revealing the pure white underside of the boat. 
CLOSE ON SHANE 
As he scrapes. Muck from the boat floats past him. This doesn't look like fun. 
As he works, he happens to look down and notices something on the bottom. 
SHANE'S POV 
Amidst the beer cans and other trash, something golden is sitting on the bottom. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Shane takes a deep pull on his hose, lets it go and drifts down. 
A shaft of sunlight penetrates the murky water and reveals a broken trophy half-buried in the mud. Shane kneels over it and picks it up. 
The trophy is almost a full-size football rendered in bronze attached to a broken base. 
Shane turns "the ball" over in his hands. He grips the seams like he's done this before. 
Then he holds the football out in front of him. 
Suddenly, he starts barking garbled signals to an imaginary offense. He turns to his running back as he yells something like "Blue 31!" It comes out in bubbles 
He cocks his left leg and his wide receiver goes in motion. 
Then on the "snap" he turns and starts a five step drop. 
He moves in slow motion because hey... he's underwater! He executes a perfect play action fake on the third step of his drop, and looks "down field" for his receivers. 
But there's a blitz! He steps up in the pocket but a linebacker's arm almost takes his head off. He dodges, he bobs, he weaves in a kind of delicate ballet. 
He rolls left and keeps looking for the open man. 
Suddenly he points down field, pulls up and cocks his arm. 
The "ball" comes behind his ear and snaps forward in a perfect release. 
The trophy spins OUT OF FRAME but we HOLD ON Shane as he watches his pass. Suddenly, he throws both arms up in a touchdown signal. 
We STAY ON him as he freezes in this pose of victory, fifteen feet underwater, on the trash-covered, muddy bottom of Marina Del Rey. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. EDWARD FRANCIS O'NEIL STADIUM (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - DAY 
Bam! A Miami Dolphin linebacker crushes a Washington Redskin running back and lands on his throat, elbow first. 
It's a beautiful fall day in November and Miami is beating the Skins in front of seventy-six thousand crazed Washington fans. The Redskins are at their home stadium better known as "The Big O." 
INT. CONTROL BOOTH - DAY 
JOHN MADDEN and PAT SUMMERALL are calling the game in shirtsleeves. 
SUMMERALL That play, my friends, sums up the Redskins' running game all day long. Now Washington calls their last time out. 
Madden leans over to do his diagram that shows up on your TV screen. We STAY ON him as he draws and explains. 
O'NEIL If you keep talking to me like I'm a five- year-old, I'm going to hurt you. 
AUGUSTINE Sounds exciting. 
He reaches for the phone and hits the speed dial. 
AUGUSTINE We'll want to talk to coach now, won't we? 
He hands the phone to O'Neil. 
O'NEIL (on the phone) What the fuck was that?! 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. TILDON'S OFFICE 
Coach Tildon sitting in his office. We can hear players getting dressed, listening to MUSIC and getting SHOWERS outside his open door. 
TILDON (on the phone) I think he slipped. 
O'NEIL Bullshit he slipped! He could have scored! 
Anybody could have scored! I got one foot in the god damn grave and I could have scored! 
TILDON Mister O'Neil, let's face facts: The players are going out. It's gonna happen. And nobody wants to get hurt on the last play before a strike that could go on for the rest of the season. 
O'NEIL You god damn wimp! You're fired! Get out! Get out! Get out! 
O'Neil throws the phone down. Augustine picks it up and then cranks up the oxygen a notch. 
O'Neil takes big gulps of the rich air. 
AUGUSTINE Better? It always makes you feel better when you fire someone, we know it does, don't we? Yes... 
O'NEIL Get me Jimmy McGinty. Get him here. Tonight. 
O'Neil sucks hard on the oxygen. 
CUT TO: 
INT. REDSKINS LOCKER ROOM - DAY 
A REPORTER is interviewing WILSON JONES, the huge defensive end for the Redskins. Wilson wears an enormous diamond earring. 
Wilson is dressing at his locker. 
WILSON Hey, man, I do what my 
union says. 
REPORTER But you're already one of the highest paid players in the game. The fans just don't see the point of a player like you striking. 
WILSON Let me tell you something: I'm a big man, you see? 
Wilson holds his arms out.   Yes, he's gigantic. 
WILSON There are some days when I am so beat up, that I cannot dress my own big ass. I asked management for a valet or some shit to help me dress and they said no way. So, fuck 'em! 
PLAYER (O.S.) Shut up everybody, here it is... 
Somebody turns UP a TV in the locker room. 
ON TV 
A handsome ex-player named Jerome Lindell steps up to a podium at a press conference. He's wearing a two thousand dollar suit. 
On the TV he is identified with a super: 
"JEROME LINDELL -- President -- National Football League Players' Association." 
LINDELL (V.O.) I have just left a meeting with representatives of the owners and I am sad to say that they have refused the players' final demands which 
center around a rise in the current salary cap. (MORE) 
LINDELL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Therefore, I am recommending that all N.F.L. players walk out and not play until our demands are met. I want the players to walk out tall, to walk out righteous, to walk out in the knowledge that we do this as a team. We shall overcome the fat cats. I send peace to my union brothers. 
The entire locker room is silent for a beat. And then everyone starts getting dressed again, maybe a little slower than before. 
ON WILSON JONES 
WILSON Shit, I'm goin' to Vegas. 
CUT TO: 
INT. O'NEIL'S BEDROOM - CLOSE ON O'NEIL - NIGHT 
As he sleeps peacefully.    The only sound is the HISS of his OXYGEN. 
Then we hear ICE CUBES SLOSHING in a glass. 
O'Neil opens his eyes and sees: 
JIMMY McGINTY, a handsome devil in his late sixties, wearing golf clothes and sipping the last dregs of a Scotch rocks. 
McGINTY You look like shit. 
O'NEIL I'm dying, Jimmy. 
McGINTY 
You been dying for twenty years. 
O'Neil motions to the glass. Jimmy pours three fingers from a Glenlivet bottle and hands it to him. 
McGINTY That poof of a nurse of yours is gonna kick my ass if he catches you drinking. 
O'Neil removes his oxygen to sip his whiskey. He smiles as it goes down. 
BIKER Did you hear something? 
The other biker shakes his head, no. 
The one who asked the question walks over to the door and listens for a beat. Nothing. 
He turns to go back and suddenly the door disintegrates in front of a charging man wearing a "police" windbreaker. 
This is DANIEL    BATEMAN, a big,    young, psychotic cop,    who immediately    runs over the poor Biker who    was listening at    the door, kicking the guy    in the head as    he goes by. 
Bateman dives on two more Bikers, and 
viciously head-butts one of them. 
He stuffs the other's head into the meth mixture, pulls him out and clubs him with a big police blackjack, three quick times: Rap! Rap! Rap! 
The guy goes down like lead. 
Bateman looks around and spots a big BIKER cowering in a corner. The Biker is terrified. 
Bateman takes two stops toward the guy when suddenly three more COPS wearing windbreakers run in, out of breath. 
They look around at the unconscious Bikers. 
COP #1 Jesus, Bateman! Why don't you ever wait for us?! 
BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! Someone's BEEPER is going off. The three cops look at theirs. Nothing. 
The cowering Biker looks at his. 
BIKER #2 Not me. 
Bateman pulls his beeper, studies it and looks puzzled. 
BATEMAN What area code is 703? 
COP #1 Washington, D.C. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIQUOR STORE - DAY 
A loaf of Wonder Bread is spinning through the air in SLOW MOTION. It comes AT us, twisting and turning. 
ON CLIFFORD FRANKLIN 
He's tall, maybe 22, and positioned behind the cash register. He's wearing a Washington Redskins sweatshirt. 
Clifford's hands are up as he waits to catch the bread which was tossed by his MANAGER at the back of the store. 
The loaf hits Clifford's hands and then bounces out. It lands on the counter in front of a TEN-YEAR-OLD smart-ass KID. 
KID Nice hands. 
CLIFFORD (not amused) What else? 
KID A pack of Marlboro Reds, a pint of Martel Cognac and a box of Trojans, extra long. 
Clifford grabs the Kid's two one-dollar bills, and makes change for the bread. 
CLIFFORD Get out of here. I'm telling your mother you were talking like that. 
The Kid leaves. 
The Manager yells from the back of the store as he holds up a portable phone. 
MANAGER Hey, Clifford, somebody on the phone wants you to play football next weekend. 
CLIFFORD Tell 'em I gotta work Saturday. And I'm watching the Redskins on Sunday. Ain't nothing stopping me from watching the Redskins on Sunday. (mumbling) No way that's gonna be 
happening, me not watching the Redskins on Sunday. 
MANAGER (into phone) He's gotta work. (pause) They said they'll pay you. 
CLIFFORD Pay me?    How much? 
MANAGER (on phone) How much? (pause) Ten thousand five hundred dollars! 
CLIFFORD (stunned) Ray, who the fuck is on the phone?! 
MANAGER (pause) It's the Washington Redskins! 
Clifford collapses. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT 
We hear deafening APPLAUSE as we hold on ANDRE and JAMAL WILLIAMS, two huge bodyguards, dressed in identical black suits. 
Suddenly,   the artist formerly known as Prince comes off   stage, grabs a towel from an assistant   and starts walking with Jamal in front and   Andre in the rear. 
As they walk, a CELL PHONE RINGS. Andre pulls it from his pocket and answers it, quietly. 
Jamal runs interference with the techies and groupies backstage. 
JAMAL (to someone) Get out of the way! (to someone else) Don't look at him! He don't like being looked at, god damn it! No eye contact! 
As they walk, Andre is still talking on the phone. 
Finally, they get to the backstage door and stop. The rock star prepares to run the gauntlet of adoring fans behind his trusty bodyguards. 
But his bodyguards are conversing quietly but urgently with each other. 
One of the assistants throws open the door. A big mob waits outside. 
The anointed one turns to his bodyguards to lead the way, but... they're gone! 
People in the street are now starting to look up at this old woman screaming "Foreskins!" 
Louis quickly crosses the street to his apartment house. 
But at that moment, a soccer ball bounces toward him from where a group of kids are playing in an alley. 
Out of pure instinct, Lou gives it a mighty boot. 
We FOLLOW the arc of the ball as it sails DOWN the block. Everyone stops to admire the kick. 
Still airborne, the ball crosses Queens Boulevard. 
At that moment, a very old mafioso type is being helped from his limo by several lieutenants. 
Pow! The ball hits the old guy right in the back of the head, knocking off his porkpie hat and dropping him to the pavement like a bullet. 
The lieutenants pull pistols and surround their fallen leader. 
ON LOU 
He sees what happens and quickly ducks into his apartment house. 
ON ONE MAFIA LIEUTENANT 
He spots Lou before he disappears inside. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PRACTICE FIELD - DAY 
Coach ROLAND LAMONT, a good-looking ex- running back in his late twenties, is 
coaching a high school player. 
We can see that Roland is wearing a pretty substantial knee brace. 
He holds up a football. 
ROLAND Cut right on me, now. Right on me. 
He pitches the ball out to one kid, who runs right at him, steps on Roland's foot with his cleats and then cuts around him. 
Roland screams and falls to the ground. 
ROLAND Not right on me, goddamn it! 
He writhes there a beat until he hears: 
VOICE (O.S.) Coach Lamont! Phone call! Long distance. Washington, D.C. It's the Washington Redskins! 
Roland holds his foot and manages a smile because he seems to know what the phone call means. 
ROLAND (to the sky) Thank you, Lord! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BIG O (WASHINGTON D.C.) - MAGIC HOUR 
The stadium appears empty. 
Suddenly, a football thrown with a perfect spiral comes AT us. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
We see the ball sail cleanly through a rubber ring attached to the crossbar on the goalpost. 
ON SHANE FALCO 
He's in shorts and a sweatshirt taking snaps from center Reese Evans. 
EVANS Nice. Try a roll to the right. 
Evans bends over another ball.    Shane sets up in the shotgun. 
O'NEIL (V.O.) Shane 'Footsteps' Falco? This is what you're going to build an offense around? 
EXT. STANDS - MAGIC HOUR 
McGinty is sitting with O'Neil on the fifty yard line twenty rows back. 
Augustine holds O'Neil's oxygen tank as the old man sits huddled in a coat that's way too big for him. 
O'NEIL Christ, Jimmy, I ask you to build me a team based on balls and the first player I see is Footsteps Falco?! 
McGINTY He's got as much natural talent as any quarterback in the league. 
O'NEIL And he's got the happiest feet I've ever seen! 
McGINTY All he needs is a shot of self-confidence. He's our quarterback. That's the way it is. 
O'NEIL What about a safety? We got two a days starting tomorrow and a game in five days! And we still don't have a safety?! 
O'Neil motions to Augustine for more oxygen. 
AUGUSTINE Here we go. Nice fat little hits. 
He turns the valve up.   O'Neil breathes deeply. 
O'NEIL I called a friend of mine who just happens to be the Governor of Maryland. 
McGINTY Terrific, the Governor is going to play safety? 
O'NEIL Don't worry about it. 
ON SHANE 
He drills a perfect spiral through the circle. 
McGinty holds up three fingers. 
McGINTY How many fingers? 
SHANE Two.   No, wait.    Three. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
Andre and Jamal are hitting the blocking sled simultaneously. They drive it OUT OF FRAME. 
ON SHANE 
He's now wearing a helmet with a twobar quarterback face guard. He takes a snap and pitches out to running back Roland Lamont. 
Roland, now wearing a big knee brace, looks sharp as he cuts to the outside. 
ON PILACHOWSKI 
The offensive coordinator is standing with McGinty who is concentrating on the scrimmage. Suddenly, Pilachowski spots someone. His mouth drops open. 
ON MICKEY LEE 
He's a fourhundred-fifty-pound ex-Sumo wrestler crammed into a Redskin uniform.     Fat rolls are visible everywhere. 
PILACHOWSKI Oh my God. That's disgusting! 
Lee walks up. McGinty bows and says something in Japanese. Lee bows and answers back in Japanese. Then they shake hands. 
McGINTY How you doin', Mickey? 
LEE Not bad, Coach. 
McGINTY You look great. Why don't you work out at left tackle? 
LEE You got it. 
Lee puts on his helmet, pulls his ponytail out the back and rumbles away. 
Pilachowski is looking at McGinty like he's crazy. 
PILACHOWSKI You're not serious. 
McGINTY I met Mickey in Hawaii. When he was even bigger. He's a Sumo wrestler. That means he's an expert at pushing people around. 
That's what pass blocking is, Leo. 
Defensive coordinator Christopher Banes comes running up in a lather. 
BANES (to McGinty) I got a defensive end who's deaf!! 
PILACHOWSKI (watching Lee walk away) I'll trade you for a tackle who's gonna play in a diaper. 
BANES How can I coach a deaf man?! 
McGINTY You don't have to... 
He looks across the field at a big, good- looking kid named BRIAN MURRAY who is in the middle of a pass rushing drill. 
Murray looks really fast, especially for his size. 
McGINTY Brian Murray would have gone in the first round five years back if he hadn't been born deaf. I first saw him play right here in D.C. for Galludet College. He's a hell of an athlete. You won't have to tell him anything. 
BANES I can't believe it! I got to be able to communicate with him. 
McGINTY Then learn to sign. Hey, look at it this way: He'll never get 
pulled off sides on an audible. 
McGinty thinks this is funny as shit. 
ON SHANE 
He's just done a fivestop drop on a pass play. He's looking down field when he sees something scary. 
SHANE Oh shit! No! 
He throws the ball away and then is nailed and taken down on his back by Bateman (psychotic cop). 
Shane groans and lies there with Bateman on top of him. 
BATEMAN Hi, I'm Danny. 
SHANE (groaning) Shane. 
McGinty pulls Bateman up. 
McGINTY Nice pop, Danny. 
BATEMAN Thank's, Coach! 
Danny runs off. 
SHANE What was that? 
McGINTY Danny Bateman. Ex-cop, ex-Marine, ex-rugby. He's absolutely harmless, if you just play dead. 
McGinty helps Shane up. 
McGINTY San Diego used you all wrong. You're not a 
drop back passer. You're a scrambler. Like you were in college. So, we're gonna roll out. A lot. Get used to setting up on the run. You'll live a lot longer. 
SHANE I'm very interested in that. 
CUT TO: 
ON SHANE 
He's stripped down sitting on a bench. Reporters are trying to interview him. Microphones are in his face and video cameras jockey for position. 
SHANE ... just glad to be back playing. That's all I've really got to say. 
REPORTER But where have you been? What have you been doing to make a living? 
SHANE Well... I've been involved lately in the... aquatic business... 
ON MICKEY LEE AND ROLAND LAMONT 
Mickey is watching Roland unbuckle his big complicated knee brace. (NOTE: There should be something slightly medieval about this brace.) 
MICKEY You only played one game?! 
ROLAND Actually, less than two minutes. I was a rookie third round pick in '93. We were playing Atlanta in the home opener. Near the end of the first quarter, they sent me in, I took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both linebackers. Simultaneously. One a 
side. My knee turned into wet toilet paper. End of career. 
MICKEY Can you play on it now? 
Roland takes out a wrench and starts unscrewing a bolt on his brace. 
ROLAND I've been teaching high school football for five years. It's not a bad life. I'm good at it. There are some days when I actually love it. But for one more shot at this? Shit. I'd give it all up. This time, they're gonna have to take me out in a box. 
ON EARL WILKINSON (CRIMINAL) 
He's standing naked in front of his locker staring with anticipation at a garment bag. 
Slowly, he unzips the bag revealing a beautiful new suit. He touches the lapels reverently. 
ON CLIFFORD FRANKLIN 
He's sitting in front of a locker, holding his football, with a shit-assed-eating grin. 
Someone walks by. 
CLIFFORD I got Wilson Boone's locker, man. Do you believe that shit? 
He drops his ball and quickly picks it up again. He looks around to make sure Coach didn't see him. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BIG O PARKING LOT - MORNING 
The regular Redskins are out in force, holding signs as they lean on their Beamers and Porsches. 
Shane pulls up in a battered '89 Honda. 
When he gets out, he's immediately surrounded by six striking regulars, led by quarterback Eddie Martel and defensive end Wilson Jones. 
MARTEL Hey, you can't park there. 
SHANE Look, I don't want any trouble. 
MARTEL You don't want any trouble?! You're taking my job away, but you don't want any trouble? (to Wilson) He doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone. 
Shane looks but it's obvious he's parked legally. 
SHANE Okay.   I'll move it. 
MARTEL No, we'll do that for you. Go ahead, Wilson. Move it for him. 
Wilson motions to another big guy. The two of them proceed to roll the Honda over on its roof. It lands with a crunch. 
JAMAL (O.S.) You all put that car back. 
Everybody turns to see Andre and Jamal walking towards them. 
WILSON Who the fuck are you? 
ANDRE We're the people who take care of the quarterback. We're the guards. 
All the regulars laugh at this. 
JAMAL Put the car back. Gently. 
WILSON Kiss my ass. 
SHANE (to Jamal) It's okay. 
JAMAL No, it's not. 
Jamal points to a gorgeous midnight blue Porsche. 
JAMAL (to Wilson) That's your ride, ain't it? 
Before Wilson can even answer, Jamal pulls his NINE MILLIMETER. BOOM! BOOM! No more Porsche windshield. 
All the regular Redskins dive for cover. 
WILSON My windshield! You crazy motherfucker! 
JAMAL Move his car back. 
WILSON My car! 
Jamal raises his GUN again.    POW!   No Porsche driver's side window. 
WILSON No!   Stop! 
He turns to his cowering teammates. 
WILSON Come on, help me, god damn it! 
The guys quickly pick up the Honda and put it right side up. 
Shane turns and sees her.    She's as fetching as ever. 
ANNABELLE McGinty, I mean. 
SHANE I was kind of thinking the same thing. 
ANNABELLE My theory is he came out of retirement to see if he could win with losers. (pause) Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I didn't mean... 
SHANE (interrupting) Hey, it's okay. I've been called worse. 
ANNABELLE Like    after that Sugar Bowl    game? I guess you could    survive anything after    that. 
Shane has to actually smile at this. 
SHANE Sometimes I feel like everybody in the world saw that game. Like I could go to India and some little guy would run up to me and say, 'Boy, did you suck in 
the '92 Sugar Bowl.' 
Annabelle laughs. 
SHANE So, how come you're such a fan? 
ANNABELLE My dad. He's a huge Redskin fan. For years. He's in his twenty-ninth year at the Senate Office Building. As a guard, not a senator. The only thing that keeps him going he says, is me and the Redskins. That's where I get it. My fan-ness. (suddenly) Are you scared? 
Shane is totally taken off guard by this woman. 
SHANE Scared? Well... yes. Absolutely. 
ANNABELLE It's okay. Anybody would be. But you're good. And you'll do good. 
SHANE Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So... I'll see you. 
ANNABELLE Break a leg tomorrow. 
SHANE What?! 
ANNABELLE It's    from the theater. For    opening night. You say    the worst thing that    can happen. And 
it won't.   Break a leg. 
Shane waves uncertainly and walks away. 
EXT. McGINTY'S BACK YARD - DAY 
The Judge (now with his jacket off) and Wilkinson are lined up across from each other in a three-point stance in something called a man maker drill. 
The entire team forms two lanes on either side of them, as they face off. 
The idea is to knock the other guy down and get by him. 
JUDGE Alright, this is how we used to stop a running back. 
WILKINSON I can't wait. 
Someone says hut! And Wilkinson slams into the Republican 16th Circuit Court Judge and knocks him head over heels. 
The Judge lands on his back, wham!   He's out cold. 
Wilkinson slaps hands with Andre and Jamal. 
WILKINSON Oooh... got me a judge! Man, that felt good! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BIG O STADIUM - DAY 
It's another beautiful fall afternoon and cars are entering the stadium parking lot. 
At one of the entrances, the striking Redskins are picketing. Jerome Lindell (NFL Players President) is still marching with them. 
A little boy stops one of the Redskins and asks for an autograph on a program. The 
player gives it to him and the kid walks away. 
Lindell runs after the kid, grabs the program and rips off the page the player signed. 
LINDELL (to kid) Don't be asking    for no autographs from    the real players and    then go in and watch    the scabs! 
The kid retreats quickly.    Lindell rips up the page. 
LINDELL (to the player) That is not the message we want to send our children! 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY 
It's very quiet. Shane sits in pads and no jersey, methodically squeezing a football. 
Reese Evans, his center, stops by. 
EVANS You okay? 
Shane nods and gives a nauseous-looking smile. 
EVANS Remember to nod your head on the snap. 
SHANE (out of it) Nod my head? 
EVANS For    when Murray's in. The    deaf kid. Hello? He    needs to look at you on    the snap. 
Shane nods that he understands but he goes 
back to staring at a wall. 
Andre and Jamal sit facing each other. Andre throws a vicious forearm at Jamal's head but Jamal catches it. They both nod in approval. 
Lou Pacifico smokes and stares. 
IN STANDS 
Even the hardcore Todd, Rob and Bob can hardly look at the carnage. 
OUTSIDE STANDS 
A contingent of strike players like Eddie 
Martel and Wilson Jones huddle in the parking lot. They are laughing their asses off as they watch on a personal TV. 
ON FIELD 
Cheerleaders are down and screaming in pain. Annabelle is running from girl to girl, doing triage. 
ON BATEMAN 
He's sheepishly standing to one side as trainers come out to assist. 
INT. BLOWUP HELMET 
Jamal and Shane are examining the trip wire. Obviously, they were sabotaged. 
JAMAL Bastards. 
ANNOUNCER (V.O.) And now... uh, the rest of the Washington Redskins. 
The rest of the team walks unceremoniously out of the helmet and onto the field. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
BOOM! The Patriot kicker puts one in the end zone for a touchback. 
The ball is placed on the twenty as Shane and the offense walk out onto the field. 
Shane walks slowly toward the huddle that's forming. 
IN HUDDLE 
Andre and Mickey Lee are arguing. 
ANDRE That's where I stand. 
LEE No it's not. 
ANDRE Come on, man, that's my spot in the huddle. 
ON SHANE 
As he walks, we hear McGinty's voice in Shane's helmet. Yes, they do it by one-way helmet radio so the filtered voice you hear is McGinty, speaking into his headset mike. 
McGINTY (V.O.) All right, son, nice and easy now. Let's run our ten planned plays, get a feel for the land... 
Shane walks into the huddle and chaos. 
ANDRE ... Fat fucking nip! You don't know shit! 
LEE What did you call me?! 
ANDRE You heard me, you tub a rice shit! 
SHANE Hold on, what's the problem here? 
Andre and Lee ignore Shane and start pushing each other. 
LEE I'm gonna kick your black ass... 
ANDRE You ain't kickin' jack shit... 
Now Jamal gets involved as Shane tries to get 
between them. 
JAMAL (to Lee) Don't be messing with my brother... 
SHANE Hey, hold on... 
ON REF 
He's watching the play clock and when it gets to zero he pulls his penalty flag and throws it. 
REF Delay of game!    Five yards! 
IN HUDDLE 
Lee suddenly punches Andre through his face guard. Andre knocks into Shane and spins him around. Jamal then goes to punch Lee, he misses and nails Shane in the back of the helmet. 
Shane goes down hard. 
ON MADDEN AND SUMMERALL 
They look confused. 
SUMMERALL ... I don't know. Something seems to be going on in the huddle. It looks like... yes, Shane Falco is on his back. They haven't run a play yet but Falco is down. 
MADDEN This is not a good sign. 
ON FIELD 
Trainers race out to Shane, who is lying face up with the huddle standing over him. 
SHANE (clearing the cobwebs) What happened? Am I hurt already? 
Shane sits up.   Suddenly, he remembers what happened. 
SHANE God damn it! I am the quarterback! I am the only one supposed to talk in the huddle! 
ON TODD, ROD AND BOB 
They begin immediately singing "Hail to the Redskins," a march always sung after a score. They and the sparse crowd in the stadium know and sing every word. 
ON PACIFICO 
He gets high fives all around. Then Bateman runs up and in his ecstasy, slaps Pacifico in the head. 
Pacifico goes down, knocked out cold. 
ON CHEERLEADERS 
Led by Annabelle, the girls are doing a stirring finale to "Hail to the Redskins." 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY (HALF-TIME) 
Everyone is lying on the floor. 
Shane has ice bags on his head, shoulder, elbow and both knees. 
Pacifico is getting smelling salts from a trainer as Bateman hovers nearby waiting to apologize. 
Mickey Lee is chewing ice. 
Cochran is reading his Bible. 
McGinty walks in and bends down to Shane. 
McGINTY (quietly) You got to look for Murray over the middle. You got to trust me on this: he's a big, tough kid with good hands. 
SHANE We can't put three plays together without a penalty, a fumble of a fight. 
McGINTY You still got a whole half left. You're a thoroughbred out there running against a bunch a nags. You can pick these fuckers apart. 
Shane smiles through his pain. 
SHANE You're good. You're really good. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
The Patriots have the ball. Their Quarterback drops back for a pass and throws it. 
ON WILKINSON 
Earl is covering the intended receiver. He deftly steps in front of the guy, and makes a diving catch. 
ON MADDEN AND SUMMERALL 
SUMMERALL Another terrific interception by Smith. That's his second. 
Madden starts shuffling through pages. 
MADDEN Yeah, this guy is a player. 
He finds the paper he's looking for. 
MADDEN According to the Redskins, Ray Smith... is... that's weird. No college given, no high school given. It just says he's been a resident of the state of Maryland for the last four years and five months. Likes to embroider. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
Shane is walking toward the huddle.     In his ear, he hears: 
McGINTY (V.O) Half your job is getting that huddle in the right mindset. Use your imagination, Shane. 
Shane stops short of the huddle.     Everyone is looking at him. 
There is a beat and then Shane steps in. 
SHANE Okay, let's all take a few seconds to think about what we were doing for a living... just last week. 
Shane looks around the huddle.     Everybody looks pained and/or depressed. 
SHANE Good. Let's kick ass. Red right pass 15 x 
hook. 
They break the huddle and Shane sets up over Evans. He glances over at Brian Murray. 
Murray is lined up in a three point stance at tight end. But his head is turned and he's looking directly at Shane. 
SHANE Red fifteen! Red fifteen! Hut! 
Shane nods on the snap. 
The front five, in the persons of Andre, Jamal, Reese, Mickey Lee and Cochran, hit out and simultaneously knock their men on their backs. 
Shane, with plenty of time, hits Murray over the middle for twelve yards. 
Shane looks over at the sidelines.   McGinty is smiling. 
MONTAGE 
A)   SHANE 
is under pressure but he rolls smoothly and rockets the ball downfield. 
Murray pulls it in for fifteen yards. 
B)   SHANE 
rolls left off the shotgun, fights off a cornerback and throws back across field, complete to Lamont coming out of the backfield. 
The quarterback hands off to the running back right up the middle in a typical "run out the clock" play. 
BAM! Bateman comes out of nowhere, decks the runner and literally rips the ball out of his hands as he goes down. 
ON CROWD 
They go wild! 
ON ANNABELLE 
She does a cartwheel. 
ON McGINTY 
He's leaning over a groggy Shane on the bench. 
McGINTY Don't shake your head at me. You are going back in there. You are gonna run the same god damn play, you are gonna throw the ball to Franklin again and this time, he's gonna score. 
SHANE I can't... 
McGinty grabs some smelling salts from a hovering trainer. 
He shoves them under Shane's nose.    Shane is suddenly very awake. 
McGINTY You are the only one in this entire stadium who can do it. Do you understand me? You can do something no one else can do. So, start right here. Start living your destiny. Or give it up for good. Right here. Right now. 
Shane stares at him. 
Then he stands up, wobbles and puts on his helmet. 
ON HUDDLE 
They're all turned and watching as Shane makes his way slowly out onto the field. 
Annabelle watches him closely. 
SUMMERALL (V.O.) Here comes Falco with eighteen seconds left on the clock. 
MADDEN (V.O.) I'm surprised to see him again after that shot he took from Bellinski. 
ON HUDDLE 
It breaks and Shane stands over Evans and looks out at the defense. 
Nasty-looking linebackers and cornerbacks stare at him. 
SHANE 22 green! 
His voice cracks and several defensive players openly laugh at him. 
Shane gets an idea. 
SHANE Check! Black 43! Black 43! 
ON ANDRE 
He's down in a three-point stance facing a defender. He whispers to Reese: 
ANDRE What's that mean? 
REESE (whispering back) He's changing the play. Listen! 
SHANE Black 43! 
MADDEN (V.O.) It's a long count. Falco could be calling an audible. 
ON LAMONT 
He shifts position in the backfield. 
LAMONT (to Shane) Is this right? 
SHANE (shaking his head) Black 43 left! 
Lamont shifts again. Clifford goes in motion from his flanker position but then changes his mind and goes back the other way. 
Lamont and Clifford then bump into each other. 
ON PATRIOT DEFENSE 
They are totally confused now as they try to adjust to the equally confused Redskins. 
ON McGINTY 
He looks extremely pissed. 
ON SHANE 
SHANE Hut!   Hut! 
He turns to hand the ball off to Lamont but Lamont is not there. 
Shane turns the other way and sees Lamont just standing there looking at him. Shane runs over to him and hands him the ball. 
Meanwhile, the Patriot defense is going the other direction. 
Lamont takes off. 
One cornerback is not taken in. The guy dives for Lamont's legs. We hear a CLANK as the cornerback's HELMET hits Lamont's industrial KNEE BRACE. The guy bounces off and Lamont trots into the end zone. 
SUMMERALL (V.O.) Lamont scores! 
MADDEN (V.O.) Whoa! Falco calls an audible at the line of scrimmage and Lamont takes it in! 
Shane, meanwhile, is looking at McGinty on the sidelines. 
McGINTY (V.O.) (in Shane's helmet) I guess you saw something I didn't. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. PALM RESTAURANT - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT 
We see Shane walk in the door. 
INT. PALM - NIGHT 
The Scabskins are all being served dinner in a private room. 
Mickey Lee is served a steak the size of a briefcase. Andre and Jamal get lobsters big enough to be pets. 
Ed O'Neil is being fed pureed asparagus by Augustine. When Augustine drops the napkin and bends over, O'Neil whispers urgently to Cochran who is enjoying a steak: 
O'NEIL I'll give you 50 thousand dollars for a bite of that steak! 
McGinty taps his glass at the head of the table and stands. 
McGINTY Alright, listen up: There have been a lot of rumors about the regular players crossing the picket lines. They are not rumors. Many union players have now seen the error of their ways and are coming back in 
droves. Apparently, they have been struck with the realization that it is a blessing to be playing professional football. 
There is dead silence in the room.   Everybody thinks it's over. 
McGINTY But they had their chance. Now it's your turn. Mister O'Neil and I have agreed to ban all striking players and to continue to go with you guys. 
There's a beat and then everyone breaks into cheers. 
Suddenly, the door flies open and a REPORTER and a cameraman step in and start filming. The Reporter shoves a microphone at McGinty. 
REPORTER Coach, what will be your strategy against New York this Sunday? 
Out in the restaurant, patrons see the players and a few break into "Hail to the Redskins." 
Suddenly, the whole restaurant starts singing. 
Shane looks embarrassed. 
Pacifico stands up on his seat, and conducts the singing. 
Andre and Jamal hold their lobsters in the air and make them dance to the song. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EDDIE MARTEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
We're ON a TELEVISION showing Pacifico conducting and the entire restaurant singing. 
Eddie Martel (Redskin quarterback) is watching the scene at home on the late local news. 
NEWSPERSON (V.O.) ... The Palm patrons showed an impromptu appreciation tonight for the new Washington Redskins. They may be unknowns and far from superstars, but it sure looks like they have charmed the fans. 
Martel looks very angry. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SHANE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Shane answers his door.     Annabelle is standing there. 
SHANE Hi.    Come in. 
ANNABELLE No. 
She gives him a bottle of pills. 
ANNABELLE We don't travel with the team. So, here's Tylenol with codeine, regular Vicodins, the magic bullet one that I gave you before, and a couple of Darvons if you actually break something. Pop 'em in the ambulance. 
SHANE Wow.    Thanks. 
ANNABELLE I'll be watching on TV. The Giants got back three of their four defensive linemen. 
Plus their middle linebacker. 
SHANE Yeah.   I know. 
ANNABELLE What can I say? Go from the shotgun and scramble your ass off. 
Shane smiles at her. 
She suddenly grabs him and they kiss big- time. 
Then she breaks and walks quickly away. 
Shane doesn't know what to make of this. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MEADOWLANDS (NEW JERSEY) - DAY 
We're DOWN ON the field in the middle of a play. 
Shane is running away from three New York Giant defensive linemen. 
Shane is not even looking for a receiver. He's looking to save his life. 
Finally, he's caught by a six-foot-five, two hundred and seventy pound defensive end named HANK MORRIS, who throws him down and lands on top of him. Oooof! 
MORRIS (in Shane's ear) Hello, again! 
INT. CONTROL BOOTH - ON SUMMERALL AND MADDEN - DAY 
They're back in their booth calling the game. 
MADDEN That's all-pro Hank Morris's third sack, his second here in the fourth quarter and the sixth of the day for 
the Giants. Falco is gonna be sore tonight. 
He's in SLOW MOTION in midair, diving towards Morris. 
MURRAY'S POV 
It's absolutely QUIET (he's deaf, remember?) as he soars towards Morris's head, helmet and ball. 
Wham! Murray's full body weight hits Morris in the helmet, which flies off and rolls across the field with the ball still stuck in it. 
OUT OF THE SILENCE, we suddenly hear the hit and the crowd roar. 
Morris goes down like a building with Murray buried in his throat. 
ON ROOM (D.C.) 
Todd, Rod and Bob are destroying Todd's den in reaction to the hit. 
ON ANOTHER LIVING ROOM 
Annabelle is screaming "Whoa!" to that hit. 
ON O'NEIL AND AUGUSTINE 
They're watching ON TV. 
O'NEIL Now that's a hit! 
ON BALL AND HELMET 
It's in the very chubby hands of Mickey Lee, who is rumbling downfield with the fumble/helmet recovery. 
New York players have been slow to pick this up because they, too, have been admiring the lick that Murray put on Morris. 
Suddenly, the whole team is chasing Lee. 
They catch him pretty easily at the twenty, but Lee represents a lot of weight. 
Lee staggers across the ten, shaking players off left and right. 
One defensive halfback sacrifices himself and throws himself at Lee's feet. 
Lee trips over the guy, gains his footing again, walks on the guy (who screams in 
agony) and falls into the end zone carrying three players with him. 
ON MADDEN AND SUMMERALL 
John is beside himself. 
MADDEN Lee scores! Lee scores! Lee scores! I love to see a fat guy score! 
ON LEE 
He gets up in jubilation, spikes the ball/helmet combination, and runs through the back of the end zone. 
But he doesn't stop. He's aiming for a low wall that separates the first row of fans from the field. 
ON FOUR FANS 
They see Mickey rumbling at them and they all get the picture at the same time. They scream! 
ON MICKEY 
He launches himself into the stands in ecstasy. 
ON FOUR FANS 
Crunch!     Lee lands on all four of them. 
ON FOOTBALL 
It's hiked into Shane's hands and Pacifico boots the extra point. 
ON SCOREBOARD 
"Giants 10 -- Redskins 10 TIME REMAINING: 58 seconds." 
ON SIDELINE 
Murray and Lee are getting congratulations from everyone. 
PACIFICO (to Murray) What a hit! (slower) What a hit! 
Murray nods that he understands. 
EVANS (to Murray) I'm proud of you, kid. 
Jamal and Andre are hugging Lee. In the b.g., we can see paramedics lifting one of Lee's four fans onto a stretcher. 
ANDRE You're the one, you're the one, you're the one... 
LEE You think that's worth a shoe deal? 
McGinty walks into the middle of it. 
McGINTY Stop with the lovefest! Let's get the goddamn ball back and win this thing! 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
We're CLOSE ON Bateman as he lines up for the kick-off. Everybody in the stadium knows that an on-side kick is coming. 
Bateman is standing in the hot spot for recovering the ball. 
Shane and everyone with decent hands is on the field. 
Pacifico lines it up and boots it ten yards. 
CUT TO: 
INT. APARTMENT DOOR - NIGHT 
Shane knocks. After a beat, the door opens and Annabelle is standing there rubbing her eyes. She's wearing a cut-off Redskin jersey. 
ANNABELLE Are you hurt? 
SHANE No.     Not really. 
ANNABELLE You're getting used to being slapped around. That's a good sign. 
SHANE I... 
Nothing comes out. 
ANNABELLE Would you like to come in and make love? 
SHANE Yes. No. I'm here because ... I don't want to be alone. 
ANNABELLE Most    of the world feels that    way. You don't have    to be embarrassed about    it. 
SHANE But to tell you the truth... I'm kind of scared of you. 
Annabelle takes that in and thinks about it. 
ANNABELLE I won't hurt you. 
She takes his hand and leads him inside. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ANNABELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Annabelle is giving Shane a slow, sensuous, full-body massage. It's lucky for us he's on his stomach. 
Shane does a lot of moaning as Annabelle's fingers work their magic. 
She gets to a place on his shoulder that's especially tender. He moans even louder. 
ANNABELLE That shoulder is going to need special handling. 
Annabelle pulls her jersey off and gently presses her breasts into Shane's back. 
Shane puts a pillow over his head to drown out the ecstasy. 
After a beat, he pulls the pillow away. 
SHANE You know what hurts 
worse than my shoulder? 
ANNABELLE I can't imagine. 
SHANE Their defensive end punched me in the mouth. 
Annabelle starts laughing. 
SHANE Seriously. It's killing me. 
Annabelle is laughing hard now as Shane rolls over. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. ANNABELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Shane and Annabelle are in a close, after-sex kind of cuddle thing. 
Shane is unburdening himself. 
SHANE ... after that game, after being beaten that badly in front of the whole country, after humiliating myself, my team, my school, my family, I mean -- did you know that I set two Sugar Bowl records?! I was sacked eleven times! I threw six interceptions! 
ANNABELLE Okay.   Calm down. 
SHANE Anyway, after that, I could never seem to adjust in the pros. I was too scared. I lost my balls. 
We see Annabelle's hand move slightly under 
the covers. 
ANNABELLE Well, they're back. 
SHANE You know what I mean. My nerve. I lost the edge you need to play this game. 
ANNABELLE I don't believe that. I don't think it just goes away. It was only one bad day, Shane. Everybody has those. 
SHANE No. Somehow, I convinced myself that I couldn't ever win the big game. I got so down, that I was afraid to be playing when a game was on the line. I was afraid to screw up. That's the sure sign of a loser. From there, it wasn't very far to thinking that I'll never win, that I didn't deserve to win at anything. Including love. 
ANNABELLE You're wrong. You're winning now. You're winning me. 
They kiss real good. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. O'NEIL MANSION - MORNING 
It's a huge town house in Foggy Bottom.    Its entrance is now lined with REPORTERS. 
One is speaking ON CAMERA to his anchor. 
REPORTER 
Bob, I'm standing in front of Redskins owner, Edward Frances O'Neil's home and all we know right now is that the Washington player previously known as Ray Smith is in fact Earl Samuel Wilkinson... 
INSERT 
We see two photographs of Earl: One with his current beard and the other, his clean-shaven mug shot of five years ago. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HILTON - NIGHT 
Shane walks down the hall to his room.        He enters. 
INT. SHANE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
He walks in and closes the door. 
When he turns around, Eddie Martel, ex- Washington Redskin quarterback, is sitting on Shane's bed. 
Two defensive linemen-types stand by the window. 
SHANE What's this? 
MARTEL This is a visit. 
SHANE A visit. Who let you in? 
MARTEL I used to nail one of the housekeepers. 
SHANE Lucky girl. 
MARTEL (pointing to the linemen) You know who these guys are, don't you? 
SHANE Dallas Cowboys.     Howdy. 
MARTEL You'll be seeing a lot of these guys tomorrow. 
SHANE What do you want? 
MARTEL Who, me? Not much. But these boys wanted a little head start on you. 
There's a beat and then Shane suddenly bolts for the door. But the two linemen grab and hold him. 
SHANE I'm flattered that you actually think we have a chance to win. 
MARTEL It can be a game of luck. And under no circumstances can we allow a scab team to go three and O. Especially against the Dallas Cowboys. It's just not good for the 
game. 
SHANE Is the union behind this 'visit'? 
MARTEL I can't really say, Shane. By the way, have you ever tried throwing a football with bruised ribs? 
He kicks Shane viciously in the side.     Shane screams. 
MARTEL The pain makes it damn near impossible. 
The linemen drops Shane on the floor. 
MARTEL And one other thing: I want you to stay away from Annabelle. 
Shane is gasping on the floor. 
MARTEL The sad fact is she won't give me the time of day. But you can't have everything I want. I can't let that happen. So, you gotta stop seeing her. Just on principle. 
Martel viciously kicks Shane again.     Shane screams. 
MARTEL Let me hear you say it. 
Shane is trying to get his breath. 
MARTEL Come on. You can do it. 
SHANE (barely visible) I won't go out with her 
anymore. 
MARTEL Good. (to the linemen) Gentlemen? (to Shane) Hey, have a great game! 
They move toward the door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BIG O - MAGIC HOUR 
Once again, fans stream into the parking lots. 
In a corner of a lot, Jerome Lindell is once again holding forth ON CAMERA. 
But this time, he's standing with a hard- looking guy in a suit, named MATHESON. 
LINDELL I think that Mister Matheson here, and myself, are very close to an agreement that will put the 'pro' back in pro-football. 
REPORTER Mister Matheson, what are the sticking points in the negotiations as far as the owners are concerned? 
MATHESON Only one: that the players immediately go back to work with no change in the existing contract. 
Lindell looks uncomfortable.   But he smiles anyway. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL BOOTH - NIGHT 
The familiar "MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL THEME SONG" is just ending. AL MICHAELS does his on camera intro. 
AL Good evening from the Big O here in Washington D.C. where the mighty Dallas Cowboys take on the Cinderella Washington 'Scabskins' as they have come to be known. Hi, I'm Al Michaels and we are witnesses to a unique matchup tonight as Shane Falco and a contingent of strike players go up against the entire regular squad of the Dallas Cowboys. Yes, you heard right: every Cowboy has now crossed the picket line, some as late as this afternoon, and they will all play tonight. Can a rag tag group of hasbeens and castoffs stand up to what was once called America's team? And what about the strike itself? It has been so ineffective that many predict it will be over before this game ends. Stay tuned as Boomer and Dan join me for strike ball, D.C. style. 
EXT. STADIUM - MAGIC HOUR 
Eddie Martel, Wilson Jones and other regular Redskins take their seats on the fifty yard line. 
CUT TO: 
INT. REDSKIN LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT 
Butler leans on Shane's side as he gets up. Shane gasps with pain. 
ON McGINTY 
He's watching Shane closely.   Then he talks into his mike. 
McGINTY What's the matter with your arm? Are you alright? 
ON AL, DAN AND BOOMER 
They're watching the replay on their monitor. Dan is very happy. 
DAN What pursuit! Butler never gave up on him. That's a 270-pound guy who moves like a halfback. 
BOOMER Dan, I think Butler's hit on Falco was late, to tell you the truth. 
DAN Well, of course you do. You were a wimp quarterback. 
AL Easy, guys. 
Some laughter. 
CUT TO: 
FIRST-HALF MONTAGE 
A)    DALLAS KICKER 
Boom! The Dallas kicker puts away the extra point after a score. 
ON SCOREBOARD 
Dallas 7, Washington 0. 
B)   SHANE 
is under pressure as he rolls out. When a defensive lineman gets close, he throws the ball away like we've seen him do before. A defensive back intercepts. Dallas's ball. 
C)   BALL 
Boom! The ball goes through the uprights for a Dallas field goal. 
ON SCOREBOARD 
Dallas 10, Washington 0. 
D)   AUGUSTINE 
massages O'Neil's feet as the old man watches the game. He looks worried. 
E)   PACIFICO 
smokes and stalks the sidelines. He looks up into the stands and sees the mafioso type looking down at him. 
F)   SHANE 
steps up in the pocket. He looks downfield but in the face of the pass rush, he throws the ball weakly out of bounds. 
G)   LEE 
is pass-blocking but the first guy spins him around and the second guy runs right around him. 
H)   BATEMAN 
is double-teamed on a pass rush. He spins but he can get no leverage against his opponents. When the play ends, he 
pushes one of them. 
A penalty flag flies by. 
I)   ROLAND LAMONT 
takes a    pitch out, is immediately hit hard and    loses the ball. A cornerback picks it    up and takes it all the way for a Dallas    score. 
J)   WILKINSON 
steps up and bats a ball away from a Dallas receiver. A flag flies. Wilkinson argues the call. 
K)   COCHRAN 
is lined up across    from Butler. On the snap, Butler slaps    Cochran in the face mask with his big,    fat club of a hand. Cochran disappears    OUT OF FRAME. 
L)   DALLAS KICKER 
Boom! The Dallas kicker puts away the extra point after a Dallas touchdown. 
SCOREBOARD 
Dallas 24, Washington 0. 
M)   EDDIE MARTEL, WILSON JONES AND OTHER REDSKINS 
sitting in the stands look satisfied. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - DAY 
The Redskins huddle. Shane is in pain.       He looks up at the clock. 
ON CLOCK 
There's thirty-two seconds left in the half. 
SHANE Okay.    Red right 15 X hook. 
The break the huddle and come to the line of scrimmage. 
SID Hey, Shane, I just heard. Congratulations! 
He smacks Shane on his bad side and Shane grimaces. 
WILKINSON Congratulations on what? 
SID Shane is staying on. He's gonna be Martel's backup. 
Everyone stares at Shane for a beat. 
ANDRE Is that true? 
SHANE Yes, Andre. It's true. 
Nobody says anything for a beat. 
FRANKLIN I got to tell you, Shane, you played the first half like you were staying. Like you already had a contract. 
Shane looks around the room at this beaten bunch. No one makes eye contact with him. 
SHANE You're right, Clifford. And I'm sorry. But now I want to go out there and either beat these bastards or die trying. I never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life. 
Everybody lets this sink in. 
Earl Wilkinson finally speaks up. 
EARL I don't know what yawl are doin' tomorrow, but my ass is goin' back to jail. But if I gotta go, I want to go back a winner. 
EVANS Hell, I'm retiring. I have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career. I'm homicidal! 
BATEMAN Me, too, Reese! 
EARL Let's get it on! 
Everybody turns to Shane. 
SHANE Gentlemen, our problem is the Cowboys aren't afraid of us. But they should be! 
LAMONT Damn straight! 
Everybody whoops! 
SHANE We've got one chance on offense to make our stand -- the first play of the half. 
JAMAL One touchdown ain't gonna help, Shane. 
SHANE No.     But one nasty-ass play    might. We just gotta    be brave. And trust    each other. 
Shane happens to glance at Pacifico. Pacifico won't meet his eye. 
Shane turns to Sid. 
SHANE Help me with this. 
Sid helps Shane strip his jersey off. 
Everyone reacts to the bruises on Shane's side. 
SHANE Somebody has to tape me up. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 
The Cowboys are already back on the field as the Redskins come out of their locker room. 
AL (V.O.) ... at nine-forty Eastern time, the agreement was reached, and except for this upcoming second half, the strike is history. 
ON AL, DAN AND BOOMER 
Boomer's tie is off and his shirt is torn. Dan looks guilty, but still angry. 
DAN It's about time. I say let the professionals back on the field. The fans deserve nothing less. 
BOOMER Yeah, you would say that. 
ON BALL 
The Dallas kicker puts the ball in the end zone for a touchback. 
ON SHANE 
He starts to follow the offense out on the field. Then he turns and sees Annabelle engrossed in a cheer. 
He runs over to her. 
ANNABELLE Are you okay? Is it your side? 
SHANE I'm okay. I owe you an apology. 
ANNABELLE What?     You do? 
SHANE Yes. I'll explain later. But thank you for believing in me. You give me strength just looking at you. 
And with that, Shane takes her in his arms and kisses her deeply. 
The crowd on that side of the field reacts to the kiss with a "Wooooooo!" 
AL (V.O.) Well, this is a first. Shane Falco seems to be... 
BOOMER (V.O.) Hell,    Al, he's necking with    a cheerleader! I've    done a little of that    in my time. 
DAN (V.O.) The players are not supposed to fraternize with the cheerleaders. 
BOOMER (V.O.) Hey, Dan, what are they 
gonna do?   Fire him?! 
REF Unsportsmanlike conduct, number 72, number 81 and number 87 on the offense, fifteen yards... (to himself) ... times three... that's forty-five yards. Illegal use of hands, number 48 on the offense, fifteen yards. That makes it sixty yards. Unnecessary roughness number 65 and number 32, fifteen yards... that's, wait... forty-five... no, thirty... (turns to another ref) ... how many yards so far? 
ON BALL 
A ref is taking a very long walk with it. He stops at the Redskin two-yard line and puts it down. 
IN HUDDLE 
Shane leans in. 
SHANE Okay, everybody, stick 
together and don't take any shit. Let's make 'em hurt! 
They break the huddle and line up with their backs to their goal. 
ON COCHRAN AND BUTLER 
Butler is still whining. 
BUTLER I can't believe you went for my eyes! 
COCHRAN Shut up! I'm gonna do it again 'cause it was fun! 
ON SHANE 
SHANE Black 98! Black 98! Hut! 
ON COCHRAN 
He drops Butler with a vicious forearm. 
Shane flicks the ball over the middle to Murray who pulls it in for fifteen yards and a first down. 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE - FOURTH QUARTER STUFF 
A)    BATEMAN 
(now at running back) sweeps outside with Jamal and Reese Evans leading the way. Both linemen growl as they throw themselves into the defense. 
B)    SHANE 
is rolling right with Butler on his heels. Just when it looks like Butler has him, Cochran comes out of nowhere and 
cuts Butler at the knees. Shane fakes a throw and keeps the ball for a fifteen- yard gain. 
C)   SHANE 
hits Franklin with a short flick pass. 
D)   BATEMAN 
runs off tackle and scores. 
E)   PACIFICO 
kicks the extra point.     Scoreboard: Dallas 24, Redskins 7. 
F)   WILKINSON 
blitzes from his safety position and decks the Dallas quarterback. 
G)   BATEMAN 
stops a runner at the line of scrimmage and throws him for a loss. 
H)   WILKINSON 
takes a punt at his own thirty. With Bateman blocking, Wilkinson springs to the outside and goes all the way for a touchdown. 
Pacifico kicks the extra point. Scoreboard: Dallas 24, Redskins 14. 
I)   DALLAS FIELD GOAL KICKER 
is set to boot one. The ball is snapped, the kicker moves forward and suddenly Brian Murray breaks through the offense and blocks the kick. 
J)   SHANE 
hits Franklin on a little down and out. He's hit by the defender, the ball goes flying but so does a flag. 
Pass interference.   Redskin first down. 
K)   ON CLOCK 
Four minutes six seconds remain. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HUDDLE - DAY 
The Redskin huddle breaks.   The guys come to the line of scrimmage. 
AL (V.O.) First and ten at the Cowboy twenty and I'm telling you, we are looking at a totally different team here in the second half. 
BOOMER (V.O.) Absolutely, Al. The Redskins are playing like there's no tomorrow, because, hey, there isn't! 
DAN (V.O.) I gotta agree with you on this one. The surprising thing for me is how ineffectual the Cowboys have been in this half. I mean, they look totally intimidated. 
AL (V.O.) I love when you guys agree. 
ON SHANE 
He's in the shotgun calling signals. 
SHANE Hut!   Hut! 
