REPO MAN 
Written by 
Alex Cox 
Transcript by 
Steve Farmer 
Repo Man theme music now begins playing. Map is shown in background (green text on black background), zoomed in on Los Alamos, New Mexico. While remaining credits are shown, the map travels to Sante Fe, then Albuquerque, then begins following US66 west through Arizona to California, finally ending up a few miles east of Goffs (northwest of Needles). 
Green '64 Chevy Malibu 
Malibu is weaving down the highway in the desert, passes billboard with motorcycle cop behind it. Cop pulls out behind Malibu. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Forty-niner and his daughter Clementine. Oh my darlin, oh my darlin... 
Motorcycle cop pulls the car over, gets off motorcycle and raps on car window. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Clementine Clemen- 
COUNTY SHERIFF Let me see your drivers license. 
RADIO Post ten-eighteen. Post ten-eighteen. 
COUNTY SHERIFF From out of town, hmm? What's you got in the trunk? 
J. FRANK PARNELL oah...you don't want to look in there. 
COUNTY SHERIFF Give me the keys. 
The motorcycle cop walks around to the back of the car and opens the trunk. The car has New Mexico license plates KBB-283. In every scene after this when the plates are visible, they will be 127-GBH. 
COUNTY SHERIFF AHHHHHH! 
The motorcycle cop gets disintegrated, leaving behind a pair of flaming boots (a reference to the movie Timerider, which was co-written and produced by Mike Nesmith). Parnell watches from side mirror, where we see that the left side of his sunglasses have no lens. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Oh my darlin Clementine, you are lost now gone forever, dreadful sorry Clementine. 
Otto and Kevin, in the supermarket, facing cans of generic yellow cling sliced peaches. 
KEVIN Do Do Do De Do De Do De Do De Do Feeling Do De Da Do De Do De Do Feeling seven-up. I'm feeling seven-up. Feeling seven up. I'm feeling seven up. It's a crisp refreshing feeling crystal clear and light. America's drinking seven-up and it sure feels right. Feeling lucky seven. 
Otto puts price sticker on Kevin's glasses. 
OTTO Kevin stop singing man. 
REPO VICTIM'S GIRL Shut up rent-a-cop. 
OLY Best goddamn (gol-durn) car on the lot. 
REPO VICTIM You damn right it is. 
MARLENE Will you, Will you hold please? 
MARLENE Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking. 
REPO VICTIM Say moma what's happening? You want to take a lift? 
MARLENE No thank you. L.A.P.D. I wanted to report a repo in Boro heights area. 
REPO VICTIM'S GIRL Let's go. 
The Repo victim and his girl leave 
PLETTSCHNER A Cadillac. Is he a pimp? 
BUD Shut up Plettschner. 
MARLENE Bud what street was that car on? 
BUD Honey I don't know, some alley uh. Hey kid! 
OTTO What? 
BUD Hey what street was the Cutlass on? 
OTTO I don't know. What happened to your old lady? 
MARLENE They don't know I'll call you back. 
MARLENE Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking. 
BUD My old lady? Oh shit (shoot)! I forgot all about her. Well she'll take the bus. She's a rock. 
MARLENE What kind of car? What kind of car? 
BUD Hey come on in. Marlene! Marlene! 
MARLENE Can you hold? 
OLY Got a name kid? 
OTTO Yeah! It's Otto. 
Otto out in the yard with Miller 
MILLER You find one in every car. You'll see. 
Back in the desert 
We begin scene looking through the windshield of a police motorcycle. The windshield of the police motorcycle naturally has a pine tree air freshener hanging from it. We see some people searching around in the desert, most of them in radiation suits, with a local sheriff following a woman in a business suit. 
RADIO Come in Officer Labeef do you read me? 
RADIO Chuck will you stop fooling around? 
SHERIFF I've never seen the like of that. 
RADIO I have the stats on that car Officer Labeef. 
RADIO Ten-forty Baker 
SHERIFF What could have done that to him? Gasoline? Napalm? 
AGENT ROGERSZ It happens sometimes. People just explode. Natural causes. 
SHERIFF What? 
Suspect presence on west coast confirmed 
44% possibility Los Angeles 
Locate immediately 
Do not notify police 
AGENT ROGERSZ Suspect presence on west coast confirmed. Do not notify police. 
Otto and Kevin on a porch in the rain 
OTTO Night watchman in Pomona. 
KEVIN Yep. 
OTTO Asbestos worker. City of industry. 
KEVIN Yep Yep! 
OTTO French fry maker Agoura. Ha Ha that's absurd. 
KEVIN Yeah? Well you think it's funny huh? There's fucking (lots of) room to move as a fry cook, man. You know I could be manager in two years? King! God! (egad!) 
Jazz music plays on the radio. In almost all scenes inside of Bud's car, Jazz music will be playing on the radio. 
In this sequence the background changes from day to night, back to day, and back to night again (during the speed snorting scene) even though the dialog seems continuous. I believe that this was done intentionally to show the passage of time, but the disjointed events are cut so smoothly as to make it seem like they goofed the continuity. It's clearer in the TV version where there truly is a break between the line about speed and the actual snorting. 
OTTO So how much do I get paid, twenty-five buck a car. 
BUD Paid? You don't get paid. Are you kidding, you work on commission, that's better than getting paid. 
BUD Most cars you rip are worth two or three hundred dollars. Fifty thousand dollar Porsche (german pronounciation) might make ya five grand. 
BUD It helps if you dress like a detective, too. Detectives dress kind of square. People think this guy is a cop. They're going to think you're packing something. They don't fuck (mess) with you so much. 
OTTO Are you? 
BUD Am I what? 
OTTO Packin' something. 
BUD Ha. Only an asshole (a jackass) gets killed for a car. Guys who make it are the guys who get into their cars at anytime. Get in at three A.M. get up at four. That's why there ain't a repo man I know that don't take speed. 
OTTO Speed huh? 
Bud at payphone 
Bud is talking on phone. 
BUD I'll call you back! (hangs up) Flippin general telephone. 
Bud picks up phone and dials. Phone begins making a loud whining noise. 
Bud gets sledgehammer from car and destroys phone while Otto watches. When Bud is done, Otto gets crowbar from car and beats side of phone with it while laughing. 
BUD C'mon. 
Otto and Bud in car in alley 
(In the television version, this entire scene takes place while watching Bud's car drive down a road, but you can still hear the snorting in the background.) 
[BUD SNORTING A LINE Jesus Christ.] 
BUD Never broke into a car. Never hot-wired a car. Kid. I never broke into a trunk. I shall not cause harm to any vehicle nor the personal contents thereof. Nor through inaction let that vehicle or the personal contents thereof come to harm. That's what I call the repo code kid. Don't forget it etch it in your brain. Not many people got a code to live by anymore. 
BUD Hey! Hey look at that. Look at those assholes (that) over there. 
We see a group of people around a tow truck with a car being hooked up to it. 
BUD Ordinary  people I hate 'em. 
Pakman begins walking toward house. 
PAKMAN I'll be right back. 
Pakman goes inside and Bud and Otto leave with the car as Pakman comes running back out of the house. 
Otto and Bud driving down a waterway 
BUD There's going to be some bad shit (stuff) coming down one of these days kid. 
OTTO Oh yeah? Where you going to be? On the moon? 
BUD Ung Uh, I'm going to be right here heading north at a hundred and ten per. 
OTTO In this junker? 
The Rodriguez brothers pull up along side of them in a red convertible with black fuzzy dice hanging from the rear view mirror. Latino music plays on the radio. 
OTTO Cool car. 
BUD Uh Oh! The Rodriguez brothers. 
[Lagarto flips them off 
OTTO Motherfucker just flipped you off. 
BUD Roll the window down.] Roll the window down. 
LAGARTO A donde vas, pendejo? 
BUD A chingas tu esposa! 
A BROTHER Hey Bud, hey Bud, who's your new girlfriend? 
OTTO Watch it mother fucker. (Girlfriend? watch it melonfarmer!) 
LAGARTO Hey fuck you pussy punk. (flip you, you punk.) 
[OTTO Holy shit.] 
NAPOLEON Want me to take them? 
OTTO Wo! Hey! 
They chase each other and end up sliding out in a huge puddle. In one shot during the chase, Lagarto is missing from the passenger's seat. 
BUD God damn dipshit Rodriguez gypsy dildo punks. I'll get your ass! 
OTTO HAHAHAH 
LEILA Laugh away fuckface (fatface) that picture is going to be on the cover of ever major newspaper in two days time. 
OTTO How do you know that? 
LEILA Part of a secret network. A scientist who is also in our secret sect smuggled the corpses off of this air force base. Now he's got them in the truck of his car. It's a Chevy Malibu. We've got to find him. 
OTTO What are you going to do with them, put them on Johnny Carson? 
LEILA Yes! We're going to have a press conference and tell the world. 
RADIO Ehw. What's that? I don't know dear. But it is alive. It seems friendly though. Aw look it's curled up. How cute oh no. Maybe we can take it home it doesn't seem to have any. Oh yes let's. But no! No matter how appealing do not let strange creature in you house. We all know strange creatures are on the increase. Many of them do seem furry and adorable, but beware we don't know from whence they came. Be safe. Be safe. Report strange incidences today. (continues in background) 
They pull up in front of a building 
OTTO United fruitcake outlet. 
LEILA My door doesn't open. 
Otto lets Leila out 
LEILA Thanks for the ride. 
As Leila stands there, we notice she has a yellow happy face pin on her dress. 
OTTO Sure Ummm I don't know. what do you think? Ah want to go out with me again sometime? 
LEILA I don't know. I'm going to be kind of busy with work, the Malibu and everything. 
OTTO Hey great. Terrific. Here's your shit (stuff). 
LEILA What's your problem? I mean girls might like you if you lightened up a little bit. 
OTTO Fuck (Flip me). Girls pay to go out with me. All right? 
LEILA You wanna get back in the car? 
OTTO What, here? 
LEILA Yeah. 
Squeals are heard from the back seat of the car 
Back at the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation 
OLY Twenty thousand dollars for a Chevy Malibu? 
Otto sees boxes wrapped in ribbons in back seat and hands one to Lite who throws it out window. A car runs over box and we see that it is full of money. Otto continues throwing boxes out of the window. 
LITE You read that book I gave you? 
OTTO What book? 
LITE Dioretix. Science of matter over mind. 
OTTO Unh uhg 
LITE You'd better read it and quick. That book will change your life. Found it in a Maseratti in Beverly hills. 
Otto and Miller in vacant lot under bridge 
MILLER A lot of people don't realize what's really going on. They view life as a bunch of unconnected incidences and things. They don't realize that there's this like lattice of coincidence that lays on top of everything. I'll Give you an example, show you what I mean. Suppose you thinking about a plate of shrimp. Suddenly somebody will say like plate or shrimp or plate of shrimp out of the blue no explanation. No point in looking for one either. It's all part of a cosmic unconsciousness. 
OTTO You eat a lot of acid Miller, back in the hippie days? 
MILLER I'll give you another instance. You know the way everybody's into weirdness right now. Books in all the supermarkets about Bermuda triangles, UFO's, how the Mayans invented television. That kind of thing. 
OTTO I don't read them books. 
MILLER Well the way I see it it's exactly the same. There ain't no difference between a flying saucer and a time machine. People get so hung up on specifics. They miss out on seeing the whole thing. Take South America for example. In South America thousands of people go missing every year. Nobody knows where they go. They just like disappear. But if you think about it for a minute, you realize something. There had to be a time when there was no people. Right? 
OTTO Yeah. I guess. 
MILLER Well where did all these people come from? hmmm? I'll tell you where. The future. Where did all these people disappear to? hmmm? 
OTTO The past? 
MILLER That's right and how did they get there? 
OTTO How the fuck (hell) do I know? 
MILLER Flying saucers. Which are really? Yeah you got it. Time machines. I think a lot about this kind of stuff. I do my best thinking on the bus. That how come I don't drive, see? 
OTTO You don't even know how to drive. 
MILLER I don't want to know how. I don't want to learn. See? The more you drive, the less intelligent you are. 
In Bud's car driving through a tunnel 
BUD You know I think I saw one of those things once. One of those UFOs. I mean it was really it was kind of kind of scary. I saw all these colored lights and, uh, sounds. I mean sounds and lights like I never heard before. I mean it was really weird. 
OTTO Bud. 
BUD Yeah? 
OTTO Hey Leila! All right, um, this is Otto. The guy who gave you a ride and stuff. I heard something about that car. 
Leila and Otto at the United Fruitcake Outlet 
Leila takes Otto into a cinderblock room which has a neon sculpture on the wall and in the center of the room, standing on a pedestal, is a humorous statue of what could be a humanoid type alien. 
LEILA Otto. Otto stop. You said you had something to tell me. 
LEILA Otto? Otto! 
OTTO Huh? 
LEILA What did you want to tell me? 
OTTO Oh! Take off your clothes. 
LEILA I'm at work, Otto! 
OTTO Oh yeah? Me too. 
LEILA Your work is different than mine. 
OTTO Says who? 
Otto takes down his pants (according to the filmmakers, Estevez enjoyed doing this on a regular basis. Maybe they were just joking?). 
LEILA What are you doing.? Don't do that. 
[OTTO Well the least you could do is give me a blow job. 
Leila slaps Otto 
OTTO Heh, I guess that means no.] 
DEADRA Leila? We have a cell meeting in two minutes time. 
LEILA Thanks Deadra. I'll be right there. 
Bud and Lite parked in their cars side by side 
BUD See that motherfucker (melonfarmer) only thinks I don't know what's going on, Lite. As soon as I find that Chevy I'm going indy. I'm going to buy myself a tow truck, a couple of pitbulls, and run a yard. Sit around and watch everybody else do the work for a while (change). 
Lite lights up a roach. 
LITE No way you can do that on twenty grand man. 
BUD The hell I can as long as you have good credit and my credit is spotless. 
KEVIN Sure thing. 
NAPOLEON Hey thanks a lot buddy. 
KEVIN Any thing for you babes. 
NAPOLEON All right, you're beautiful. I love you. 
KEVIN I'll be right back. 
Lagarto gets in the Malibu and both cars drive off. Kevin returns from inside and sees both cars gone. Two other attendants sit at a table and also look; the attendant on the right is director Alex Cox. 
KEVIN What?? 
Shot of car driving down freeway, passed by several motorcycles. 
Otto and Mrs. Parks in Mrs. Parks' living room 
OTTO It's really very simple Mrs. Parks. You don't want me to take your car and I don't want to take your car. Now I said to the boss I said ah Look! I do not want to repossess this lady’s car. 
Sound of motorcycles pulling up outside of house. 
MRS. PARKS Well I've been in the hospital you see. 
OTTO Yeah, Yes I understand. My job is really on the line over this one. I could lose it right away. 
MRS. PARKS I'll see if I can borrow some money from somewhere. 
OTTO That's terrific. Really terrific. 
Mrs. Park's son and his fellow band members enter 
MRS. PARKS Oh how was the rehearsal son? 
MRS. PARKS' SON It was O.K. Who's this? 
MRS. PARKS Oh this is Mr. Otto. He's from the finance company. He's been telling me that he isn't going to take the car this time, even though he could. 
OTTO Well, uh, gotta get going here. 
Otto fumbles nervously with his briefcase trying to close it. 
MRS. PARKS Did you like the tea? 
OTTO The tea? 
MRS. PARKS Uh huh? 
PLETTSCHNER Don't you ever tell me to shut up. 
Lagarto and Napoleon in the Malibu 
They pull up in front of a diner. 
NAPOLEON Shit (shoot)! (?)! It's too hot in here man. What the hell's going on? So fucking (flippin) hot I think that shit in the trunk is going to melt. I think we better take a look, all right? 
LAGARTO Go get us two sodas. 
NAPOLEON All right, as soon as I check the trunk. 
LAGARTO We're just the mules, comprende? (Andale')... 
Lagarto calls Marlene from phone booth. A sign in the window of the diner behind him says "2.95 Plate O-Shrimp Luncheon Special". 
MARLENE Helping hand. 
LAGARTO Marlene! We've found the car. 
Archie, Duke, and Debbie exit a window and go down a fire escape [dropping armloads of pills as they go]. Behind them, a sign says "Fox & Mac Taggert Pharmaceutical Company". 
DUKE Come on you guys! 
DUKE Get the lead out. 
DEBBI Stop pushing Duke. 
[ARCHIE My medication. Aw man! 
DUKE Aw be cool dude we got more. 
ARCHIE Come on. Come on. da-dee-dee-dee-dah-dah dee-dee... (continues to the tune of The Ride of the Valkyries) 
Lagarto on the phone with Marlene 
LAGARTO Yeah well that's not the only thing Marlene. This car is hot. 
MARLENE What do you mean? Stolen? 
LAGARTO No. No I mean it's hot really hot. 
MARLENE Hot? 
LAGARTO Yeah, we're sweating like pigs man. 
MARLENE I got the papers. Where is the car from? 
Leila and J. Frank Parnell on pay phones 
Leila on phone hears garbled sounds on receiver. 
LEILA Hello. Is it you? This is Leila. Are you using a scrambler? 
J. FRANK PARNELL I can't hear you. I'm using the scrambler. 
LEILA (garbled noises in background) Look out! 
J. FRANK PARNELL What? 
A car swerves into the phone booth, then crosses street and hits a fire hydrant. The agents are trapped inside by the airbags. More agents appear and chase Leila 
AGENT Happy face! You want a ride? 
In Agent Rogersz van 
An agent types while eating potato chips. The camera pans across the van to Agents Rogersz, who is watching a monitor which shows Leila being questioned 
LEILA What do you want from me? 
AGENT We ask the questions. 
LEILA You're not going to torture me are you? 
LEILA Torture you? What for? 
LEILA To find out what I know. I'd torture someone in a second if it was up to me. 
AGENT Huh? Why are you looking for the Malibu? 
LEILA Because of the trunk. The aliens inside. 
AGENT Illegal aliens? 
LEILA No, Silly, Extraterrestrials. 
AGENT Ahhh, heh. Did you ever think about joining the CIA? 
LEILA Um. I going to have to ask my boyfriend. 
AGENT Boyfriend?? 
Rogersz computer screen prints up the following information 
SUBJECT Otto Maddox 
[MILLER John Wayne was a fag.] 
EVERYONE The hell he was. 
MILLER He was too you boys. I installed two way mirrors in his pad in Brentwood. And he'd come to the door in a dress. 
PLETTSCHNER Ah, you're fucking (flippin) nuts. 
OLY That doesn't mean he was a homo (freak), Miller. Lotta straight guys like to watch their buddies fuck (play). I know I do. 
BUD They do? 
PLETTSCHNER Yeah. 
OLY Don't you? 
PLETTSCHNER Damn straight I do. 
LITE Fuck (Damn) John Wayne man. Tell us his name you little pussy (sissy). 
OTTO Kiss off you asshole (airhead). 
OTTO Ow you bastards (loonies)! 
BUD Hey take it easy. Take it easy. The guys head is hurt. 
OLY This is too personal sonny. The thing is a repo man got beat up in the line of duty. Now it doesn't matter that that man was you. What really matters is that the guy that did it has got to pay the price. Now stop being selfish and tell us his name. 
LITE Come on. 
OTTO Ahh Oww You bastard (buzzard). 
OTTO All right! All right! All right! All right! O.K. his name was... 
The repo men in the front of Mr. Humphries's house 
They ring the bell and Mr. Humphries opens the door. In the background, we can just barely see Kevin, who appears to be in his pajamas. This is never explained in the movie. 
OLY Mr. Humphries? 
MR. HUMPHRIES Yes? Yes I'm Mr. Humphries. What do you want? Ungghhh... 
Repo Men beat up Mr. Humphries. 
At the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation office 
T.V. The president admitted that U.S. war planes have napalmed refugees camps in Southern Mexico. He explained that these camps were in fact guerrilla bases. In strife torn Guatemala shots were fires at the U.S. embassy and government troops retaliated killing 50... (continues in background) 
ARCHIE Oh Chante.] 
DUKE Fuck (flip) this let's go do some crimes. 
[ARCHIE Adios butthole.] 
LEILA Charming friends you got there Otto. 
OTTO Thanks, I made'um myself. 
Debbi, Archie and Duke leave to find J. Frank Parnell breaking into the Malibu 
DEBBI Hey what  you doing with our car? 
J. FRANK PARNELL Your car? 
ARCHIE Yeah! 
J. FRANK PARNELL Are you sure? This looks like my car. Are there pecan pies in the back seat? 
ARCHIE Not any more. We ate 'em. 
DUKE Shut up Archie. 
ARCHIE You shut up. 
DUKE You're still here? 
J. FRANK PARNELL My car looks just like this. But this is yours, your car? 
ARCHIE Yeah four eyes. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Of course...what's in the trunk? 
DUKE What do you mean? 
J. FRANK PARNELL You don't even know what's in your own trunk. 
DEBBI Kill him Duke! 
J. FRANK PARNELL You know what? I think you're afraid to find out. 
DEBBI Kill him. 
ARCHIE Come on Duke you putty butt, kill him. 
DUKE I aint afraid of nothing see. 
NAPOLEON Hey! Yo! Hey buddy! 
NAPOLEON Special deputies pull over. Special deputies pull over. Hey! 
The Helping Hand repo men in a car 
[OLY So the department says the ice broke and he fell in. 
BUD Look at these people man there's one person in each car. City wants up to car pool but nobody gives a shit. 
MILLER People car pool, we'd be out of work. 
LITE AWW bullshit! 
OLY How come that pig's got a wooden leg? Well said the farmer said about three months ago I was out there walking the pig. 
MILLER Look at that car.] 
LITE Hey Budsky. There's your Girlfriend. 
BUD Aww! Those Rodriguez brothers Humm? O.K., boys, we've got the whole team here tonight lets settle these motherfucker's (melonfarmers) hash for good. 
LITE Let's do it. 
[NAPOLEON Yo! Pull over. 
LAGARTO Meda Bud. Shit!] 
NAPOLEON Don't lose him man. 
Bud rams into the Rodriguez brothers' car while the Malibu drives off with a noticable green glow coming from inside. 
PLETTSCHNER Hey! Hey! Take it easy. Stop this  car. Hey come on. Come on. 
The Rodriguez brothers are forced into a parking garage and eventually have to stop the car 
NAPOLEON Come on! Come on! What are you going to do with that bat? What? Huh? What? 
LAGARTO Hey! Hey! Hey! 
LAGARTO You bad bud. This is going to cost you plenty. 
BUD What do you mean its going to cost me plenty? 
LAGARTO How's your neck Napoleon? 
NAPOLEON Oh my neck? Yeah! Oh!  my neck is killing me man. I think I got whiplash. 
BUD . Makes you wonder how much they owe. Most of them are on the run. Don't even use their fucking (flippin) social security numbers. If there was just some way to find out how much the motherfuckers (melonfarmers) owe and making them pay. 
OTTO Jesus Christ (Holy cow) bud. They're winos, they don't have any money. You think they'd be bums if they did? 
BUD You want out? Do ya? 
OTTO No! 
BUD What's a matter with you? Don't you like your job anymore? Not too happy in your job? I mean I feel like were not communicating any more. When we first started out I though I could teach you something share something with you for Christ's sake. Answer me! 
Otto gets out and walks down street. Passes agents picking up dead body. 
AGENT (heard in background) I'm picking up the dead. I'm putting my hands around this dead body. I'm, I'm carrying his limp torso to the truck. And he feels like like he has only been dead a little while but... 
Otto sees the Malibu and gives chase. Losing the car, he stops on a bridge to puke. When done, he sees the Malibu emerge from under the bridge. He runs down the stairs and after the Malibu as it goes through a railroad crossing which has red lights blinking and bell ringing. J. Frank Parnell stops and lets him in. 
J. FRANK PARNELL (holds out hand) J. Frank Parnell. 
OTTO ott, ott... 
J. FRANK PARNELL What line of work you in? 
OTTO re, re, re.. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Rock'n'roller, eh!? I used to be a musician myself, college days. Of course it was folk songs and protest songs back then. (begins singing, badly) We shall overcome, we shall overcome... 
Otto coughs. 
J. FRANK PARNELL (stops singing and scratches ear) Did you ever feel as if your mind had started to erode? 
OTTO No. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Ever been to Utah? 
OTTO Nuh-uh 
J. FRANK PARNELL I go to Utah every year. Friend of mine, was a designer of the MX missile race track basing mode. A hundred thousand miles of railroad track on a big loop through Utah, Arizona, and Nevada. Bombs were going to hide in locomotive sheds. That way the red team would never know exactly where they were. I still go out to Utah, just to think about the way things might have been. 
OTTO Sir. I represent the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation. 
J. FRANK PARNELL Radiation, yes indeed! You hear the most outrageous lies about it. Half-baked goggle-boxed do-gooders telling everybody it’s bad for you. Pernicious nonsense! Everybody could stand a hundred chest X-rays a year. They ought to have 'em too. When they canceled the project it almost did me in. One day my mind was literally a-burst. The next day nothing. Swept away... But I showed them. I had a lobotomy in the end. 
OTTO Lobotomy? Isn't that for loonies? 
J. FRANK PARNELL Not at all. A friend of mine had one. Designer of the neutron bomb. Ever hear of the neutron bomb? Destroys people. Leaves buildings standing. It fits in a suit case. It's so small no one knows it's there until blammo. Eyes melt skin explodes everybody dead. It's so immoral working on the thing can drive you mad. That's what happened to this friend of mine. So he had a lobotomy. Now he's well again. 
OTTO What kind of car does your... does your friend drive? 
OTTO Not yet. Oly's going to get it for me though. I just signed the papers. 
BUD Whu, what do you mean, what papers? 
OTTO Beats me, just some, uh, contract or something. 
BUD Didn't you read it? 
OTTO Well, no, just, uh, standard practice, uh, contract... 
BUD Melonfarmer Oly! ...oooh, shoot. 
OTTO What, is that not a happening deal? 
Bud breaks into the lot. Later, he picks up Otto 
BUD Hey ace. Wait up. 
OTTO So you want to talk about it? 
BUD Talk about what kid? 
OTTO Why you're so damn mad at me? 
BUD I'm not mad at you.  damn. I'm not. I'm not mad at you. 
OTTO All right O.K. 
Duke and Debbie in car in front of a liquor store 
[DUKE Debbie? 
DEBBIE What? 
DUKE I've been thinking. Now that we've got some money and Archie's gone, don't you think it's time we we settle down? Get a little house. I want you to have my baby. 
DEBBIE Why? 
DUKE Well I don't know. Every body does it. And it just seems like the thing to do and... 
DEBBI Asshole.] 
DUKE Let's go do the job. 
Bud and Otto are at the counter. Duke and Debbi enter waving guns. 
OTTO Duke! Debbie! What what are you guys doing here? 
AGENT Man. 
AGENT ROGERSZ Don't touch the body, don't touch the body. 
AGENT Sorry. 
AGENT Telephone call for you agent. 
AGENT ROGERSZ Don't bother me now. 
AGENT But Agent Rogersz, it's the Gipper. 
AGENT Look. 
AGENT Booth's setting him on fire 
Otto enters Parents living room 
Parents are covered with cobwebs and watching TV. 
REVEREND LARRY ON TV ...fail to register for patriotic chores. So, please call this toll free number. Praise the lord. There is no redemption for the unredeemed, no escape for the fair weather patriots. No salvation from the boiling blistering fires of eternal damnation. Now these are the end times. Because in these days there shall be hell in time. Man shall be lovers of their own self rather than lovers of God. 
OTTO'S DAD Haven't seen you in a while, Son. 
TV No escape... 
OTTO'S MOM Some men were just here looking for you, Otto. 
TV No salvation from the blistering files of eternal damnation. For in these days there shall be hell in time, there shall be war and more war, and earthquakes in diverse places... 
OTTO What kind of men? 
OTTO'S MOM Very nice young men. They wore sunglasses. 
OTTO Well, what did you tell them? Did you tell them I was sick? 
OTTO'S DAD We told them the truth, son. Gave them your address at work. 
TV Money shall run out and the people will line up at the banks and there won't be anything . . . these prophecies are in your bible. The same one that you have in your home. Now I want you to get up off of your sofa and put that beer down and go wherever it is in your house pick up that book and turn with me... 
Otto turns off TV and leaves. 
Otto returns to the Helping Hand Yard and sees an argument going on in the office 
AGENT Where's the car baby? That Chevy Malibu baby. Where's the car? 
PLETTSCHNER Otto! 
