(c) 1990 The Walt Disney Company Compiled by Scott A. Concilla (skippy6400@delphi.com) July '95 
THE CHARACTERS: Major characters (voiced by...) Bernard (Bob Newhart) Miss Bianca (Eva Gabor) Wilbur (John Candy) Jake (Tristan Rogers) Cody (Adam Ryen) Percival McLeach (George C. Scott) Minor characters Joanna (Frank Welker) Frank (Wayne Robson) Krebbs (Douglas Seale) Chairmouse (Bernard Fox) Doctor (Bernard Fox) Red (Peter Firth) Baitmouse (Billy Barty) Francois (Ed Gilbert) Faloo (Carla Meyer) Mother (Carla Meyer) Nurse mouse (Russi Taylor) Non-speaking Polly; Kookie; Snake; Marahute; Dowager; Milktoast; Cricket Cook; Telegraph mice; Nelson; Sparky; Twister; Razorback; Ranger. 
Release date:  November 16, 1990 Running time:  74 minutes 
THE RESCUERS DOWN UNDER The Complete Script 
(opening:     The camera slowly zooms through a variety of insects and rocks. We follow a small yellow bug climb up a blade of grass.  As it spreads its wings to fly, we are whisked along the Australian outback and prairie by Ayers rock and eventually slow down as we approach Cody's house.) 
(scene:  inside Cody's room.  The camera pans around to show Cody sleeping in his hammock.  The sound of Faloo's call is heard.  Cody hears it, jumps out of bed, and runs to the window.  He puts on his shirt and grabs his knife.) 
(scene:  Cody sneaks past his mother who is in the kitchen listening to the radio.) 
Announcer:    ... thundershowers are expected in the Crocodile Falls area and some of the surrounding gullies so take out your... 
(scene:  Outside Cody's house.  Cody leaves the house, and closes the door behind him, but not quietly.) 
Mom:     (from inside upon hearing the door) Cody! 
Cody:    (whincing) Yeah mom? 
Mom:     What about your breakfast? 
Cody:    I've got some sandwiches in my pack. 
Mom:     Well be home for supper. 
Cody:    (hopping the gate) No worries mom. 
(scene:  various "time lapse" views of Cody climbing up the cliff.) 
(Cody reaches the top and sees the eagle.) 
Cody:    Marahute! 
(Cody looks at the eagle; he approaches her slowly; she hears him and wakes up; Marahute screeches and struggles to get free.) 
(reassuring) Calm down, calm down.  I'm not gonna hurt you.  (Cody strokes Marahute on the head) That's a girl. Stay still... it's o.k. 
(Cody gets out his knife; Marahute sees the glint of the knife and begins to struggle and scream) 
No wait!  I'm here to help you... easy!... easy! 
(Cody cuts two ropes.  Cody cuts the last rope to free Marahute.) 
You're free!! 
(As Marahute spreads her wings to fly, she knocks Cody off the cliff.) 
Aaaiigh! 
(Cody falls; Marahute dives down to catch him; she catches him just before he hits the ground; they begin to fly around; the animals see Cody on Marahute and stand in awe; Marahute files over several rock formations; the fly up above the clouds; Cody looks at his reflection in Marahute's eye.) 
Higher! 
(They fly even higher above the clouds; Marahute throws Cody and catches him; Cody is now held in Marahute's talons.) 
Woah! 
McLeach: (laughs)  Got one!! 
(scene:  back in the hole/trap where Cody has fallen.) 
Baitmouse:    (from the top of the hole) Are you alright? 
Cody:    (rubbing his head) Yeah, I think so. 
Baitmouse:    Okey-dokey. (he runs off) 
Cody:    Wait!  Hey!  Come back! 
(Cody tries to climb out; he gets halfway up, grabs a tree root; it breaks and he falls; the baitmouse begins to lower a vine down to help Cody) 
Baitmouse:    Here you go, grab on. 
Cody:    That's great, just a little more, a little further... there!  I got it. 
(a rumble is heard and the ground begins to shake.) 
Baitmouse:    Uh-oh. 
(view of McLeach's vehicle trampling through the forest disturbing everything) 
Baitmouse:    Yipe! 
(The vine is severed as McLeach's truck comes to a screeching halt; Cody falls; the truck opens; Joanna leans over pit and growls; Cody yells) 
McLeach: (unseen, approaching the trap) Well Joanna, what'd we get today? A dingo, a fat ol' razorback, or a nice big.... (he sees Cody) boy?!? 
McLeach: That's no secret boy, you see, (menacing) I already got the father.  (makes a cutting sound and draws a feather across his neck like he was slashing a throat).  He, he he.  You just tell me where momma and those little eggs are. 
(Cody breaks free from McLeach by slipping out of his backpack.) 
Cody:    NO!! 
McLeach: Joanna, sick 'em! 
(Cody runs through forest with Joanna close behind; he enters an open area where we see a waterfall and water; Cody stops right at the edge of the small cliff that drops into the water (Crocodile Falls); Joanna follows close behind; Cody reaches into his pocket and pulls out his knife; he drops it; McLeach steps on his hand.) 
McLeach: You're comin' with me boy. 
Cody:    My mom'll call the rangers! 
McLeach: (sarcastically)  Oh no.... not the rangers, what'll I do?? What'll I do??!  Don't let your mom call the rangers!!  Please don't!!  (Joanna laughs) (McLeach laughs)  (McLeach throws Cody's backpack into the river)  My poor baby boy got eaten by the crocodiles, boo-hoo-hoo!  Let's go boy! 
Cody:    (from inside McLeach's cage)  Help!  Help! 
(The baitmouse sees Cody in the cage; he runs to the local RAS telegraph office; it begins to rain and wind is blowing; he bursts through the door as the telegraph mouse is eating.) 
Baitmouse:  (very fast and excited) Help, help, help!!  Someone help!  McLeach took the boy.  He took the little boy.  Send for help!! 
(The telegraph mouse begins typing the message in morse code; camera pans up to roof, where other mice aim the antenna; message is seen being relayed to the Marshall Islands) 
(In a wrecked plane on the Marshall Islands, a mouse listens to the morse code message; he recognizes the distress call, activates the controls on the plane, and relays message to Hawaii.) 
(Message is seen being relayed to Hawaii.  Screens fill with RAS RAS RAS.  Mice are watching through binoculars in the back.  The send a signal to other mice.  They dial the phone to distract guard.  Phone rings.  Guard leaves.  Mice take over, type (jump) on keyboard and read message.  "RAS... RAS... ATTENTION BOY KIDNAPPED IN AUSTRALIA IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED"  They type "Relay to New York".) 
(Message then journeys across the ocean to Los Angeles, then to Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, Washington D. C. and then New York.) 
Bianca:  Yes darling? 
Bernard: I... Miss Bianca would you.... would you... (the ring falls through a hole in Bernard's pocket onto the floor) would you excuse me for a minute? 
(Bernard chases the ring across the floor; he crawls around, sees it, and just as he goes to grab it, a waiter kicks it under another table; Francois arrives at their table.) 
Francois:     (French accent) Pardonnez moi, mademoiselle Bianca, I have important news.  (He hands her a piece of paper.) 
Bianca:  Yes Francois?  What is it? 
Francois:     You and Bernard have been asked to accept a dangerous mission to Australia. 
Bianca:  (reading message) Oh the poor boy.  This is dreadful.  Now where is Bernard I must tell him at once! 
Francois:     Allow me madame, I will tell him immediately. 
(Bernard is seen under a table retrieving ring; the ring finds its way onto the foot of a rather large woman mouse who is having dinner with a rather nerdy looking man mouse; as Bernard removes the ring from her foot, she think the man mouse is playing footsie with her and smacks the man mouse.) 
Bernard: (practicing)  Miss Bianca, will you marry me?  Miss Bianca, will you please marry me? 
Francois:     (as Bernard practices) Quickly monsieur Bernard!  I must speak with you.... 
Bernard: Not now Francois, I'm busy! 
Francois:     No, no, no, no, monsieur you don't...... 
(As Francois attempts to follow Bernard he collides with another cricket watier and falls on his back; various crickets run to help him.) 
(Bernard returns to the table) 
Bernard: (surprised)  Australia? 
Chairmouse:   Oh good show!  Now, you must fly out immediately!  It's a little nippy outside, but we won't let that stop us, will we?  What? (laughs) 
(scene:  on top of a building, snow and wind blowing all around) 
Bernard: (yelling) Miss Bianca, I'm not sure it's such a good idea to... to fly this soon after eating! 
Bianca:  Darling you'll be just fine! 
Bernard: But aren't, aren't you supposed to wait 45 minutes? 
Bianca:  (annoyed) Oh, just knock on the door and see if Orville is there!! 
Bernard: (knocks slightly)  (quickly) Well, nobody's home, let's go. 
(Bernard gets buried with snow) 
Bianca:  Bernard!!  (scodling) This is no time to play in the snow. 
Bernard: I wasn't playing in the snow.  It... it was an avalanche. 
Bianca:  Oh look Bernard!   (reading the sign) Under new management, see Wilbur.  C'mon darling, let's get a move out! 
(scene:  inside Wilbur's hangar; Wilbur is seen singing and dancing along with some music) 
Bianca:  Yoo-hoo!  Mr. Wilbur!  Hello? 
Bernard: Look out!!  Excuse me! 
Wilbur:  How about a cream soda? 
Bernard: Now look, we need a flight to Australia. 
Wilbur:  Australia?  The Land Down Under?  That's a fabulous idea!  So when can I pencil you in?  Ah... after spring thaw?  You know, mid-June would be very nice. 
Bianca:  Oh know, we must leave TONIGHT. 
Wilbur:  (spits out his drink) TONIGHT?  (coughs and laughs) C'mon you're kiddin' me right?  (laughs) Have you looked outside?  (he opens the window) It's suicide out there!  Oh-ho, oh no.  OH NO....I'm afraid your jolly little holiday will have to wait.  (laughs) What a bunch of jokers. 
Bianca:  But you don't understand, a boy needs our help, he's in trouble. 
Wilbur:  A boy?  You mean, a little kid kinda boy? 
Bianca:  He was kidnapped. 
Wilbur:  Kidnapped?  (remorseful) Aw... that... that's awful.  Lockin' up a little kid.  A kid should be free.  Free to run wild through the house on Saturday mornings, (gathering strength) free to have cookies and milk, and get those little white moustaches, you know, with the..... (determined) NOBODY'S gonna take a kid's freedom away while I'm around, nobody, do you hear me?!? 
Bianca:  Does that mean you'll take us? 
Wilbur:  (with conviction) Storm or no storm, Albatross Airlines, at your service!! (Wilbur salutes) 
(scene changes to Bernard and Bianca on Wilbur's back) 
Passengers are requested to please fasten their seat belts and secure all carry-ons.  We'll be departing following our standard pre-flight maintenance.  Thank you. 
(Wilbur begins to exercise) 
Yeah, loosen up, get the blood flowin' up to the head, annnnnd, couple of these....oh!  (tries to do a push-up) O.k.  one's enough, here we go.  Oh!  Ah yeah!!  That feels better.  Oh baby. Tie your kangaroos down sports fans, here, we, COME! 
Bernard: Oh, oh... alright, I'll get him up.  (leaning over)  Ahhh... Wilbur?  (Wilbur is snoring)  Wilbur?  Wilbur?? 
Wilbur:  (half awake) Um, yeah, just five more minutes ma.  (Wilbur rolls over, trapping Bernard and Bianca) 
Bianca and Bernard:     (screams) Wilbur!! 
Wilbur:  (groggy) That's all I need, five more minutes. 
Bianca:  (pleading) Wilbur??  Are you awake?? 
Bernard: Get, get up we're there!! 
Wilbur:  O.k. I'm up, I'm up. (he rolls back over) 
Bernard: Watch out you got.... 
Wilbur:  (groans)  Oh!  I must'a been sleepin' on a bolt.  Ooo.  (plane body opens)  Oh boy.  Throw another shrimp on the barbie girls, cause HERE I COME!! 
Bernard: Here we go again!! 
Wilbur:  CANNONBALL!!!!! 
Bianca:  Weeee!! 
(Wilbur "cannonballs" out of the airplane; he runs into a flock of seagulls on his way down and passes the Sydney Opera House.) 
Wilbur:  Gang way!  Comin' through, mice on board!!  Clear the way!  Move over madam, there you go!  Comin' through sir, thank you. (laughs)  Next stop, Mugwomp Flats.  Did we lose anyone back there?  (laughs). 
Bernard: Miss Bianca, from.. from now on, can't... can't we just take the train? 
Bernard: We..., we'll never make it!! 
Wilbur:  (as he bounces along roof)  Hot!  Oooh!  Ow!  Passengers please remain seated until the aircraft comes to a full and complete stop.  Thank you. 
(Jake and Sparky continue to extend the runway; Wilbur lands on an umbrella and spins around.) 
Jake:    Quick Sparky, we need to make a drag line! 
(an elaborate clothesline/hangar/brassiere drag line is constructed; Wilbur is catapulted into the drag line; when he stops, he is "wearing" the bra.) 
Wilbur:  (cocky) Don't try and tell ME the runway's too short.  Ha!  (to Jake) Hold this for me will ya pal?  (Wilbur "hands" him the bra which launches Jake backwards.) 
Jake:    Bloke oughtta have his wings clipped. 
Wilbur:  You captain thanks you for flying Albatross Airlines..... 
Jake:    (aside to Sparky) Crazy Yanks.  They think they can do any fool thing, without regard for..... 
(he sees Bianca; becomes starry-eyed; Sparky wonders what happened; looks at Jake; Sparky buzzes in dismay) 
(being suave) Welcome to Australia ma'am.  My name's Jake and if there's any way I can make your stay more pleasant, don't hesitate to ask. 
Bianca:  Oh, how kind. 
Jake:    Allow me to get that bag for ya. 
Bernard: (struggling)  I've a.... I've got a lot of... luggage here... 
Wilbur:  Here let me give you a hand with those bags pal, all part of the friendly service here at Albatross Air (Wilbur picks up two of the bags; a crunch is heard)  Ow!  Oh!  Big time hurt!  Ah back!!  Oh it's out! 
Bianca:  Oh no, no, we're not married. 
Bernard: In fact we're, we're here on a, a top ah.. secret mission. Very... very.. hush, hush. 
Jake:    Oh!  Gotta rescue that kid McLeach nabbed eh? 
Bianca:  Why that's right!  How did you know? 
Jake:    (he bumps Bernard out of the way) (whispering to Bianca) You'll find it's tough to keep secrets in the outback miss.  (outloud) So ah.... which way ya takin'?  (looking at Bernard's map.) Suicide trail through Nightmare Canyon, or the shortcut at Satan's ridge? 
Bernard: Su... Suicide trail? 
Jake:    Good choice.  (dramatically) More snakes, less quicksand.  Then once you cross Bloodworm Creek, you're scot free, this is until ummm... Dead Dingo Pass. 
Bernard: (puzzled) Wait, wait, wait a minute, I don't.... I don't see any, any of that, that stuff on the map. 
Jake:    A map's no good in the outback!  (folding up the map)  What you really need is someone, (schmoozing to Bianca) someone who KNOWS the territory. 
Bianca:  Oh Mister Jake, will you guide us? 
Jake:    At your service!  (he bows and shoves the map behind him into Bernard's gut.)  Here better take my arm miss it's gonna be a treacherous hike.  (beginning to tell a story) I remember the time Miss B. it was just me and four hundred of these big giant..... 
Bernard: Doesn't even know how to fold a map.... 
(scene:  the rangers are at Crocodile Falls searching the water; then we see Bernard, Miss Bianca and Jake on a wombat in a tree getting ready to jump.) 
Jake:    This is how we get around in the outback Miss B.  (shouting)  The only way to travel, eh Berno? 
Bernard: Ah yeah, yeah, it's just a little, a little ah.. bumpy back here. 
(Bernard reaches into his pocket and pulls out the ring to make sure it's still there.) 
Bernard: You know... now that we're alone, (nervous) there's... there's something that I've, I've been wanting to uh... to.. to ask you. 
Bianca:  Yes?  What is it? 
Bernard: (he walks over to Bianca) Well, it's uh.... it's like this... Miss Bianca I.... (he gets down on one knee) I would be... (he takes her hand) most honored... if..  if... 
Jake:    LOOK OUT!!!  (Jake bursts through the two of them; Bianca screams) No mice for you Twister not today!!  (Jake proceeds to lasso the mouth of Twister the snake.) There! 
Bernard: Miss Bianca! 
Jake:    (assertively) I've been looking all over for you.  Now look... we got a long way to go, and you're gonna take us there, and you're not gonna give us any trouble about it.  Right?? 
(Snake shakes his head no; Jake and Miss Bianca get on Twister.) 
They're perfectly harmless once you look 'em in the eye and let em' who's boss.  Ain't that right mate?  (smacks the snake.) Now git. 
Bianca:  It's alright Bernard, Jake has everything under control. 
Bernard: (disappointed and sarcastic) Yeah, I noticed. 
Jake:   (going into a story again) You know Miss Bianca, truth be told, I used to be quite a dingo wrestler.  Yeah, there was this one time, it was just me and (his voice begins to trail off) 300 of these ferocious mouse-eating dingo's right... had me surrounded.... decided to .... 
(Bernard, who is riding the end of the snake, get out the ring, dumps out the water, and sighs.) 
(scene:  McLeach's animal prison; Mcleach throws Cody into a cage.) 
McLeach: I'll give you a night down here to think it over.  But tomorrow, no more Mr. Nice Guy.  (McLeach slams the door, Joanna gets her tail caught in it.)  Joanna!  You thick-headed chunk of fish-bait! 
Krebbs:  Ooo... a lovely ladies' purse. 
Frank:   (crying) I don't want to go as a purse.  (begging) Please, please, don't let 'em do it! 
Cody:    Don't worry, we're gonna get out of here. 
Frank:   We are? 
Cody:    Yeah!  If we all put our heads together, I'm sure we'll think of something. 
Frank:   Yeah, something, something.... (begins to pant and think hard) 
Cody:    Frank, what's wrong? 
Krebbs:  Oh, here he goes again. 
Red:     Take it easy mate, you don't want to hurt yourself again. 
Frank:   (straining to think) I got it!!  All we gotta do, is get the keys!! 
Krebbs:  (sarcastically) Ohhh!! Is that all??  Well then, we better start packing our bags. 
Cody:    No wait, he's right.  If we could get these long pieces of wood.... (Cody strains to reach some long pieces of wood through his cage) 
Frank:   Wood, yeah, wood, wood, wood, yeah good. 
Cody:    Maybe we could.... (a bird in a "tire cage" helps knock the wood so Cody can reach it.)  that's right just a little more... there, (he gets a piece of wood) Come on everybody, get some more stuff!! 
Red:     The kid's right, what are we waiting for? 
(scene: Cody's house) 
(a ranger knocks at the door; Cody's mom answers and we begin to hear the radio announcer in the background) 
Announcer: ... those particular areas, in other news, authorities in Mugwomp Flats have called off the search for the missing boy.  His backpack was found near Crocodile Falls, and local rangers believe he was yet another victim of crocodile attack. (scene transitions to McLeach's hideout) Authorities once again warn residents to use extreme caution when they are.... 
McLeach: (to the radio) Ha heh!  Think you're pretty smart, don't you eh? Who outsmarted who?  Who?  Who outsmarted who?  I still gotta get that boy, to talking, huh?  (a thought strikes him) I'm hungry. Can't think on an empty stomach... gotta have protein... gotta have.... eggs.  (Joanna perks up at the word "eggs"). 
(McLeach gets up and walks across the room; Joanna follows.) 
Everyone's got his price... all I gotta do is offer him whatever he wants... and then not give it to him. 
(Joanna opens the tool box, takes an egg and puts it in her mouth; throughout this scene, Joanna steals McLeach's eggs as he is talking out loud; he keeps moving the box back and forth in an attempt to stop her, which only makes matters worse.) 
(to Joanna) Did you take one of my eggs?  Open your mouth.  These are NOT Joanna eggs.  Let's see ummm... the boy's got the eagle... I want the eagle... the boy won't give me the eagle... if I could just find the boy's weak spot, I could get him to tell me where the eagle is.  But the boy's only got ONE weak spot, and that IS the eagle.  (aside/thinking out loud) Maybe if I stuck him in a giant anthill, that would loosen his tongue and then.... (yells) I got it!  (to Joanna)  Got your hand caught in the cookie jar, didn't ya?  Eh?  Who do you think you're messin' with you dumb animal, my mental facilities are twice what yours are, you peabrain.  (opens case, realizes all the eggs are gone)  (calmy at first, then more angry) (Joanna runs away and hides) Joanna.... I give you platypus eggs, I give you snake eggs, why I'll even give you eagle eggs, but I want you to stay away from my... (stops abruptly).... (whispers) the eagle's eggs!  That's it!  That's the boy's weak spot!  (Joanna whimpers in corner) 
(scene: McLeach's animal prison) 
Frank:   (still trying to open lock with his tail).  Push it in a little bit farther..... (mumbling).... (Frank opens the cage without realizing it and steps out.) (crying) I give up!  (kicks the door closed) I'll never get this.... we're doomed!  Doomed! 
Red:     Hey look!  Krebbs, Frank's out! 
Cody:    Frank, Frank, you're free! 
Frank:   Free?!  (realizing) I'm free!  I'm free!  I'm free!  I'm free!.... (continues) 
Red:     Shhhhh!!! Joanna'll hear! 
Krebbs:  Double or nothin' he's caught in five minutes. 
Frank:   (mumbles) (grunts) box, box..... etc. 
(Frank moves the box, climbs up, and grabs the keys; he falls over with them on top of the box which makes noise with them) 
Everybody:    SHHHHH!  Quiet! 
Frank:   (grumbles) These are heavy! 
(Frank kicks the keys onto the floor; everyone is dismayed.  Frank gets a grip, gets quiet, and goes down to get the keys quietly.  As he goes to grab the keys, Joanna enters the prison room through the animal door.) 
Oops! 
(Joanna begins to chase Frank around the room) 
Red:     The keys Frank, give us the keys!!  Frank, over here!!  Give us the keys!!  (they disappear behind some junk; Frank emerges riding Joanna like a horse with the keys as a bridle) Yeeeeeee-haaaww, ride 'em Frank!!!! 
Frank:   Ya-hoo, howdy, howdy, howdy!!!!  Howdy, howdy, howdy!!!  (Joanna launches Frank across the room) Yeah, yeah, .... (etc) .... 
(Frank drops the keys; Cody picks them up and lets himself out.) 
(Joanna runs after Frank towards the cage) Let me in!  Let me in!! 
(Joanna gets a gun) No, no, no!!!! (etc.) 
(Joanna shoots the gun at Frank who is standing against a wall.  He is in a fancy position.) 
Huh, missed. 
McLeach: (catching Cody with the keys) Surprise!!  If I didn't know any better, I'd think you didn't like it here. 
Cody:    (looks up and sees McLeach's truck) (begins to yell and plead) Marahute, NO!!!  Turn back!!  Turn back!!  Stay away!!  It's a trap!! 
(McLeach launches the trap; Marahute is caught in it.) 
McLeach: I got her!!!  I got her!!!  Did you see that?  (laughs)  Perfect shot!! Per-fect shot!  She's mine!!  (laughs)  All mine!!!! 
Cody:    NO!!! 
(Cody jumps for the trap/bundle as it is hoisted up; Jake lassos Cody's foot.) 
Jake:    Hold tight you two, we're going for a ride! 
(Bernard misses the rope) 
Bernard: Bianca!! 
Bianca:  Bernard! 
(Cody begins to cut the ropes on the trap.) 
McLeach: (grumbles)... Meddlin' brat.  Gonna get rid of him for good. 
(McLeach tries to shake Cody off.) 
Cody:    Help I'm slipping! 
Bianca:  Cody, don't move!! 
(Jake throws a rope and lassos Cody's foot.) 
Bernard: Wilbur.... 
Wilbur:  (fumbling) You should start searchin' the desert for her, and (fumbling) I'll scan the coastline! 
Bernard: Wilbur... 
Wilbur:  That's what I'll do....  I'll ask the chicks on the beach. 
Bernard: Wilbur! 
Wilbur:  Huh?  What?! 
Bernard: Now listen!  (Bernard points to the eggs) There's some chicks right here that need your help. 
Wilbur:  Really?  (Bernard sits on an egg, and pats it.)  Oh no.... wait a minute... hold it.... I know what you're thinkin' and you're wrong.  Don't even.... no... (Bernard gives him a stare) don't look at me like that!  You're gettin' no from me!  You understand? No!  I will not.. EVER sit on those eggs! 
(scene changes to Wilbur sitting on the eggs)  Aww... nuts! (sigh)... (to himself) Gotta learn to be more assertive.  No is no is NO.  (to the eggs) Hey, quit movin' in there! 
(scene:  McLeach's vehicle) 
McLeach: Well Joanna, it looks like lady luck has finally decided to smile on us.  Everything's going our way.  (laughs to himself). 
Cody:    (screaming) You can't do this!!  You're gonna get in big trouble!! I'll tell the rangers where you are!! 
McLeach: (groan) I almost forgot...we got a loose end to tie up, haven't we girl? 
(Joanna looks through the back window; makes a face at Cody; Cody makes on back and smacks the glass and scares Joanna) 
Bianca:  (consoling) Now, now Cody, we mustn't loose hope.  Bernard is still out there... 
(Cody is still hanging just above the water; the crocodiles jump for him; Bernard jumps out of the truck cab with the keys; he tiptoes underneath the truck; Joanna follows him and then chases him.) 
Bianca:  Look, it's Bernard! 
Jake:    I don't believe it!  Way to go mate! 
Bernard: Miss Bianca, Jake, catch!!  (He throws the keys up to them) 
(Joanna chases after him) Woah! 
McLeach: Well, there's more than one way to skin a cat. (getting out his gun) (laughs) 
(Jake and Bianca work the keys up the cage) 
(Joanna continues to chase Bernard; Bernard tricks Joanna into biting her tail; he hides in a log; Bianca and Jake continue to work the keys up the cage; a gunshot is heard; Marahute screeches.) 
McLeach: Blasted!! 
Bernard: Oh my gosh!  I hope I know what I'm doing! 
(another shot goes off;  this time, it hits the rope and severs it most of the way; Bernard kicks Joanna; runs for McLeach.) 
Thhpppt. 
(Bernard runs up McLeach just as he takes aim again; Joanna follows and tackles McLeach.) 
McLeach: Hey, get off me!!  Joanna!  What are ya..... 
(Bernard pushes McLeach over with one finger) (screams and falls into the water) 
