Quentin Tarantino's 
R E S E R V O I R   D O G S 
October 22, 1990 
This movie is dedicated to these following sources of 
inspiration: 
TIMOTHY CAREY 
ROGER CORMAN 
ANDRE DeTOTH 
CHOW YUEN FAT 
JEAN LUC GODDARD 
JEAN PIERRE MELVILLE 
LAWRENCE TIERNEY 
LIONEL WHITE 
RESERVOIR DOGS 
1      INT. UNCLE BOB'S PANCAKE HOUSE - MORNING 
Eight men dressed in BLACK SUITS, sit around a table at a breakfast cafe.  They are MR. WHITE, MR. PINK, MR. BLUE, MR. BLONDE, MR. ORANGE, MR. BROWN, NICE GUY EDDIE CABOT, and the big boss, JOE CABOT.  Most are finished eating and are enjoying coffee and conversation.  Joe flips through a small address book.  Mr. Pink is telling a long and involved story about Madonna. 
MR. PINK "Like a Virgin" is all about a girl who digs a guy with a big dick.  The whole song is a metaphor for big dicks. 
MR. BLUE No it's not.  It's about a girl who is very vulnerable and she's been fucked over a few times. Then she meets some guy who's really sensitive-- 
MR. PINK --Whoa...whoa...time out Greenbay. Tell that bullshit to the tourists. 
JOE (looking through his address book) Toby...who the fuck is Toby? Toby...Toby...think...think... think... 
MR. PINK It's not about a nice girl who meets a sensitive boy.  Now granted that's what "True Blue" is about, no argument about that. 
MR. ORANGE Which one is "True Blue?" 
NICE GUY EDDIE You don't remember "True Blue?" That was a big ass hit for Madonna.  Shit, I don't even follow this Tops In Pops shit, and I've at least heard of "True Blue." 
MR. ORANGE Look, asshole, I didn't say I ain't heard of it.  All I asked was how does it go?  Excuse me for not being the world's biggest Madonna fan. 
MR. BROWN I hate Madonna. 
MR. BLUE I like her early stuff.  You know, "Lucky Star," "Borderline" - but once she got into her "Papa Don't Preach" phase, I don't know, I tuned out. 
MR. PINK Hey, fuck all that, I'm making a point here.  You're gonna make me lose my train of thought. 
JOE Oh fuck, Toby's that little china girl. 
MR. PINK Yeah, it's fuckin great isn't it? 
NICE GUY EDDIE Can you believe the songs they been playin? 
MR. PINK No, I can't.  You know what I heard the other day?  "Heartbeat - It's Lovebeat," by little Tony DeFranco and the DeFranco Family. I haven't heard that since I was in fifth fuckin grade. 
NICE GUY EDDIE When I was coming down here, I was playin it.  And "The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia" came on.  Now I ain't heard that song since it was big, but when it was big, I heard it a million- trillion times.  I'm listening to it this morning, and this was the first time I ever realized that the lady singing the song, was the one who killed Andy. 
MR. BLUE You didn't know Vicki Lawrence killed the guy? 
NICE GUY EDDIE I thought the cheatin wife shot Andy. 
MR. BLONDE They say it in the song. 
NICE GUY EDDIE I know, I heard it.  I musta zoned out whenever that part came on before.  I thought when she said that little sister stuff, she was talkin about her sister- in-law, the cheatin wife. 
JOE No, she did it.  She killed the cheatin wife, too. 
MR. PINK You know the part in "Gypsies, Tramps and Theives," when she says "Poppa woulda shot his if he knew what he'd done?"  I could never figure out what he did. 
The table laughs.  The WAITRESS comes over to the table. She has the check, and a pot of coffee. 
WAITRESS Can I get anybody more coffee. 
JOE No, we're gonna be hittin it. I'll take care of the check. 
She hands the bill to him. 
WAITRESS Here ya go.  Please pay at the register, if you wouldn't mind. 
JOE Sure thing. 
WAITRESS You guys have a wonderful day. 
They all mutter equivalents.  She exits and Joe stands up. 
JOE I'll take care of this, you guys leave the tip. (to Mr. White) And when I come back, I want my book back. 
MR. WHITE Sorry, it's my book now. 
JOE Blonde, shoot this piece of shit, will ya? 
Mr. Blonde shoots Mr. White with his finger.  Mr White acts shot.  Joe exits. 
NICE GUY EDDIE Okay, everybody cough up green for the little lady. 
Everybody whips out a buck, and throws it on the table. Everybody, that is, except Mr. White. 
NICE GUY EDDIE C'mon, throw in a buck. 
MR. WHITE Uh-uh.  I don't tip. 
NICE GUY EDDIE Whaddaya mean you don't tip? 
MR. WHITE I don't believe in it. 
MR. WHITE You're not gonna fucking die, all right? 
MR. ORANGE I wasn't born yesterday.  I'm hurt, and I'm hurt bad. 
MR. WHITE It's not good... 
MR. ORANGE Hey, bless your heart for what you're trying to do.  I was panicking for a moment, but I've got my senses back now.  The situation is, I'm shot in the belly.  And without medical attention, I'm gonna die. 
MR. WHITE I can' take you to a hospital. 
MR. ORANGE Fuck jail!  I don't give a shit about jail.  But I can't die.  You don't have to take me in.  Just drive me up to the front, drop me on the sidewalk.  I'll take care of myself.  I won't tell them anything.  I swear to fucking god, I won't tell 'em anything.  Look in my eyes, look right in my eyes. (Mr. White does) I-won't-tell-them-anything. You'll be safe. 
MR. WHITE Lie back down, and try to-- 
MR. ORANGE I'm going to die!   I need a doctor!  I'm begging you, take me to a doctor. 
Mr. Orange lays his head back on the mattress.  Spent from his outburst, he quietly mutters to himself: 
MR. ORANGE Take me to a doctor, take me to a doctor, please. 
Suddenly, the warehouse door BURSTS open and Mr. Pink steps inside. 
MR. PINK Was that a fucking set-up or what? 
Mr. Pink sees Mr. Orange on the floor, shot and bloody. 
MR. PINK Oh fuck, Orange got tagged. 
Throughout this scene, we hear Mr. Orange moaning. 
MR. WHITE Gun shot. 
MR. PINK Oh that's just fucking great! Where's Brown? 
MR. WHITE Dead. 
MR. PINK Goddamn, goddamn!  How did he die? 
MR. WHITE How the fuck do you think?  The cops shot him. 
MR. PINK Oh this is bad, this is so bad. (referring to Mr. Orange) Is it bad? 
MR. WHITE As opposed to good? 
MR. PINK This is so fucked up.  Somebody fucked us big time. 
MR. WHITE You really think we were set up? 
MR. PINK You even doubt it?  I don't think we got set up, I know we got set up!  I mean really, seriously, where did all those cops come from, huh?  One minute they're not there, the next minute they're there.  I didn't hear any sirens.  The alarm went off, okay. Okay, when an alarm goes off, you got an average of four minutes response time.  Unless a patrol car is cruising that street, at that particular moment, you got four minutes before they can realistically respond.  In one minute there were seventeen blue boys out there.  All loaded for bear, all knowing exactly what the fuck they were doing, and they were all just there!  Remember that second wave that showed up in the cars? Those were the ones responding to the alarm.  but those other motherfuckers were already there, they were waiting for us. (pause) You haven't thought about this? 
MR. WHITE I haven't had a chance to think. First I was just trying to get the fuck outta there.  And after we got away, I've just been dealin with him. 
MR. PINK Well, you better start thinking about it.  Cause I, sure as fuck, am thinking about it.  In fact, that's all I'm thinking about.  I came this close to just driving off.  Whoever set us up, knows about this place.  There could've been cops sitting here waiting for me.  For all we know, there's cops, driving fast, on their way here now. 
MR. WHITE Let's go in the other room... 
Mr. Pink rolls into the street, in front of a moving car that SCREECHES to a stop, narrowly avoiding running over him. 
7      INT. CAR (STOPPED) - DAY 
The CAMERA is in the backseat. A SHOCKED WOMAN is the car's driver.  Mr. Pink pulls himself up from the hood, shakes it off, and points his magnum at the driver. 
MR. PINK Get outta the car!  Get the fuck outta the car! 
The Shocked Woman starts screaming. 
Mr. Pink tries to open the driver's side door, but it's locked. 
MR. PINK Open the fucking door! 
EXTREME C.U. DRIVER'S SIDE WINDOW 
Mr. Pink SMASHES it in our face. 
8      EXT. STREET - DAY 
DOLLY with Cops coming up fast. 
Mr. Pink DRAGS the Shocked Woman out of the car. 
The Cops reach the corner, guns aimed. 
Using the car as a shield, Mr. Pink FIRES three shots at the Cops. 
Everybody HITS the ground, or scatters. 
Mr. Pink HOPS in the car. 
Cops FIRE. 
9      INT. CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
CAMERA in the backseat, Mr. Pink FLOORS it.  SPEEDING down the street, with the Cops FIRING after him. 
BACK TO: 
10     INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
Mr. Pink and Mr. White still talking in the bathroom. 
MR. PINK Tagged a couple of cops.  Did you kill anybody? 
MR. WHITE A few cops. 
MR. PINK No real people? 
MR. WHITE Uh-uh, just cops. 
MR. PINK Could you believe Mr. Blonde? 
MR. WHITE That was one of the most insane fucking things I've ever seen. Why the fuck would Joe hire somebody like that? 
MR. WHITE For all I know, you're the rat. 
MR. PINK Now you're using your head. For all we know, he's the rat. 
Mr. Pink points OFFSCREEN to Mr. Orange.  Mr. White's expression changes. 
MR. WHITE Jesus Christ! 
11     INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
They run over to Mr. Orange, who's unconscious.  The CAMERA hovers over the action.  Mr. Pink reaches him first. 
MR. PINK Is he dead? 
Mr. White pushes him out of the way.  He feels the pulse on Mr. Orange's neck. 
MR. PINK So, is he dead or what? 
MR. WHITE He ain't dead. 
MR. PINK So what is it? 
MR. WHITE I think he's just passed out. 
MR. PINK He scared the fuckin shit outta me.  I thought he was dead fer sure. 
Mr. White stands up and walks over to a table. 
MR. WHITE He will be dead fer sure, if we don't get him to a hospital. 
MR. PINK We can't take him to a hospital. 
MR. WHITE Without medical attention, this man won't live through the night. That bullet in his belly is my fault.  Now while that might not mean jack shit to you, it means a helluva lot to me.  And I'm not gonna just sit around and watch him die. 
MR. PINK Well, first things first, staying here's goofy.  We gotta book up. 
MR. WHITE So what do you suggest, we go to a hotel?  We got a guy who's shot in the belly, he can't walk, he bleeds like a stuck pig, and when he's awake, he screams in pain. 
MR. PINK You gotta idea, spit it out. 
MR. WHITE Joe could help him.  If we can get in touch with Joe, Joe could get him to a doctor, Joe could get a doctor to come and see him. 
During Mr. Pink's dialog, we slowly ZOOM in to a C.U. of Mr. White. 
MR. PINK (OS) Assuming we can trust Joe, how we gonna get in touch with him?  He's supposed to be here, but he ain't, which is making me nervous about being here.  Even if Joe is on the up and up, he's probably not gonna be that happy with us. Joe planned a robbery, but he's got a blood bath on his hands now. Dead cops, dead robbers, dead civilians...Jesus Christ!  I tend to doubt he's gonna have a lot of sympathy for our plight.  If I was him, I'd try and put as much distance between me and this mess an humanly possible. 
MR. WHITE Before you got here, Mr. Orange was askin me to take him to a hospital.  Now I don't like turning him over to the cops, but if we don't, he's dead.  He begged me to do it.  I told him to hold off till Joe got here. 
MR. PINK (OS) Well Joe ain't gettin here.  We're on our own.  Now, I don't know a goddamn body who can help him, so if you know somebody, call 'em. 
MR. WHITE I don't know anybody. 
MR. PINK (OS) Well, I guess we drop him off at the hospital.  Since he don't know nothin about us, I say it's his decision. 
MR. WHITE'S POV: 
Mr. Pink YELLS as he HITS: 
MR. PINK Ya wanna fuck with me?!  You wanna fuck with me?!  I'll show you who you're fuckin with! 
The two men end up on the floor KICKING and SCRATCHING. 
Mr. White gets Mr. Pink in a HEADLOCK. 
Mr. Pink reaches in his jacket for his gun, and pulls it out. 
Mr. White sees this, immediately lets go of Mr. Pink, and goes for his own weapon. 
The two men are on the floor, on their knees, with their guns outstretched, aiming at one another. 
MR. WHITE You wanna shoot me, you little piece of shit?  Take a shot! 
MR. PINK Fuck you, White!  I didn't create this situation,  I'm just dealin with it.  You're acting like a first-year fuckin thief.  I'm actin like a professional.  They get him, they can get you, they get you, they get closer to me, and that can't happen.  And you, you motherfucker, are looking at me like it's my fault.  I didn't tell him my name.  I didn't tell him where I was from.  I didn't tell him what I knew better than to tell him.  Fuck, fifteen minutes ago, you almost told me your name.  You, buddy, are stuck in a situation you created.  So if you wanna throw bad looks somewhere, throw 'em at a mirror. 
Mr. Pink lowers his gun and walks towards White. 
MR. PINK So if you wanna shoot somebody, put that gun in your mouth and shoot yourself. 
Then from OFF SCREEN we hear: 
VOICE (OS) You kids don't play so rough. Somebody's gonna start crying. 
12     INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY - MEDIUM C.U. ON MR. BLONDE 
The Voice belongs to the infamous Mr. Blonde. 
Mr. Blonde sits on a counter, drinking a fast food coke and eating a hot dog. 
MR. PINK Mr. Blonde!  You okay?  We thought you might've gotten caught.  What happened? 
Mr. Blonde doesn't answer, he just hops off the counter and starts walking around the warehouse, checking the place out. 
He doesn't look at either Mr. Pink or Mr. White, he just eats his hot dog and sips his coke. 
This is making Pink and White nervous as hell.  But Mr. Pink tries to talk through it. 
We HANDHOLD follow Mr. Blonde around the warehouse. 
MR. PINK Really, how did you get away? 
Mr. Blonde walks the loft.  Silent. 
MR. PINK You saw what happened to me, I found a hole and booked. 
Silence. 
MR. PINK Where's Mr. Blue? 
Blonde looks in the bathroom. 
MR. PINK We were hopin you two would be together. 
MR. WHITE You almost killed me, asshole!  If I had any idea what type of guy you were, I never would've agreed to work with you. 
MR. BLONDE You gonna back all day, little doggie, or are you gonna bite? 
MR. WHITE What was that?  I'm sorry, I didn't catch it.  Would you repeat it? 
MR. BLONDE (slowly) I said: "Are you gonna bark all day, dog, or are you gonna bite." 
MR. PINK Both of you two assholes knock it the fuck off and calm down! 
MR. WHITE (to Mr. Blonde) So you wanna git bit, huh? 
MR. PINK Cut the bullshit, we ain't on a fuckin playground! (pause) I don't believe this shit, both of you got ten years on me, and I'm the only one actin like a professional.  You guys act like a bunch of fuckin niggers.  You ever work a job with a bunch of niggers?  They're just like you two, always fightin, always sayin they're gonna kill one another. 
MR. WHITE (to Mr. Pink) You said yourself, you thought about takin him out. 
MR. PINK Then.  That time has passed. Right now, Mr. Blonde is the only one I completely trust.  He's too fuckin homicidal to be workin with the cops. 
MR. WHITE You takin his side? 
MR. PINK Fuck sides!  What we need is a little solidarity here. Somebody's stickin a red hot poker up our asses and we gotta find out whose hand's on the handle.  Now I know I'm no piece of shit... (referring to Mr. White) And I'm pretty sure you're a good boy... (referring to Mr. Blonde) And I'm fuckin positive you're on the level.  So let's figure out who's the bad guy. 
Mr. White calms down and puts his gun away. 
Mr. Blonde returns to the persona we saw at the beginning, talking about Madonna. 
MR. BLONDE Well, that was sure exciting. (to Mr. White) You're a big Lee Marvin fan, aren't you?  Me too.  I don't know about the rest of you fellas, but my heart's beatin fast. (pause for a beat) Okay you guys, follow me. 
Mr. Blonde hops out of his chair and heads for the door. 
The other two men just follow him with their eyes. 
MR. WHITE Follow you where? 
MR. BLONDE Down to my car. 
MR. WHITE Why? 
MR. BLONDE It's a surprise. 
Mr. Blonde walks out. 
13     EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
Three cars are parked out front.  Mr. Blonde is walking towards the car he drove.  Mr. White and Mr. Pink are walking behind.  The Camera is HANDHELD following behind them. 
MR. PINK We still gotta get out of here. 
MR. BLONDE We're gonna sit here and wait. 
MR. WHITE For what, the cops? 
MR. BLONDE Nice Guy Eddie. 
MR. PINK Nice Guy Eddie?  What makes you think Nice Guy's anywhere but on a plane half way to Costa Rica? 
JOE (while he pours the drink) Who's your parole officer? 
VIC A guy named Koons.  Craig Koons. 
JOE How is he? 
VIC Fuckin asshole, won't let me leave the halfway house. 
JOE Never ceases to amaze me.  Fuckin jungle bunny goes out there, slits some old woman's throat for twenty-five cents.  Fuckin nigger gets Doris Day as a parole officer.  But a good fella like you gets stuck with a ball-bustin prick. 
Joe walks back around his desk and sits in his chair. 
Vic swallows some Remy. 
VIC I just want you to know, Joe, how much I appreciate your care packages on the inside. 
JOE What the hell did you expect me to do?  Just forget about you? 
VIC I just wanted you to know, they meant a lot. 
JOE It's the least I could do Vic.  I wish I coulda done more. (Joe flashes a side grin at Vic) Vic. Toothpick Vic.  Tell me a story?  What're your plans? 
VIC Well, what I wanna do is go back to work.  But I got this Koons prick deep up my ass.  He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job. My plans have always been to be part of the team again. 
There's a KNOCK at the door. 
JOE Come in. 
The door opens and in walks Joe's son, Nice Guy Eddie. Vic turns around in his seat and sees him. 
EDDIE (to Vic) I see ya sittin here, but I don't believe it. 
Vic gets out of his seat and hugs Eddie. 
EDDIE How ya doin, Toothpick? 
VIC Fine, now. 
EDDIE I'm sorry man, I shoulda picked you up personally at the pen. This whole week's just been crazy. I've had my head up my ass the entire time. 
VIC Funny you should mention it. That's what your father and I been talkin about. 
EDDIE That I should've picked you up? 
VIC No.  That your head's been up your ass.  I walk through the door and Joe says "Vic, you're back, thank god.  Finally somebody who knows what the fuck he's doing.  Vic, Vic, Vic, Eddie, my son, is a fuck up."  And I say "Well, Joe, I coulda told you that."  "I'm ruined!  He's ruining me!  My son, I love him, but he's taking my business and flushing it down the fuckin toilet!" (to Joe) I'm not tellin tales out of school.  You tell 'im Joe. Tell 'im yourself. 
JOE Eddie, I hate like hell for you to hear it this way.  But when Vic asked me how's business, well, you don't lie to a man who's just done four years in the slammer for ya. 
Eddie bobs his head up and down. 
EDDIE Oh really, is that a fact? 
Eddie JUMPS Vic and they fall to the floor. 
The two friends, laughing and cussing at each other, wrestle on the floor of Joe's office. 
EDDIE --Nuts.  We got a big meeting in Vegas coming up.  And we're kinda just gettin ready for that right now. 
JOE Let Nice Guy set you up at Long Beach.  Give ya some cash, get that Koons fuck off your back, and we'll be talking to ya. 
EDDIE Daddy, I got an idea.  Now just hear it out.  I know you don't like to use any of the boys on these jobs, but technically, Vic ain't one of the boys.  He's been gone for four years.  He ain't on no one's list.  Ya know he can handle himself, ya know you can trust him. 
Joe looks at Vic. 
Vic has no idea what they're talking about. 
JOE How would you feel about pullin a heist with about five other guys? 
VIC What's the exposure like? 
JOE Two minutes, tops.  It's a tough two minutes.  It's a hold up, daylight, during business hours, dealing with a crowd.  But you have the fellas to deal with the crowd.  It's a jewelry store. They're getting a big shipment of South African diamonds on a certain day.  They're like a way station.  It's gonna get picked up the next day and sent to Hamburg. When you walk through the door, you'll know right where to go for the rich stones. The fellas are good, me and Nice Guy picked em.  Nobody knows anybody else.  Nobody's connected. I don't use connected guys for this shit. 
VIC What's the cut? 
JOE Juicy, man, real juicy. 
Toothpick Vic smiles. 
So does Nice Guy Eddie. 
CUT TO: 
15     INT. NICE GUY EDDIE'S CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
Nice Guy Eddie is driving to the rendezvous talking on his portable car phone.  The sounds of the seventies are coming out of his car radio in the form of "Love Goes Where My Rosemary Goes" by Edison Lighthouse. 
EDDIE (into phone) Hey Dov, we got a major situation here. (pause) I know you know that.  I gotta talk with daddy and find out what he wants done. 
FLASH ON 
16     INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
The Cop is standing in the warehouse with his hands cuffed behind his back.  Mr. White, Mr. Pink and Mr. Blonde surround him and proceed to beat the shit out of him. "Love Grows .." PLAYS over the soundtrack. 
17     BACK TO NICE GUY EDDIE 
EDDIE (into phone) All I know is what Vic told me. He said the place turned into a fuckin bullet festival.  He took a cop as hostage, just to get the fuck out of there. 
FLASH ON 
18     WAREHOUSE 
The three men are stomping the cop into the ground. 
19     BACK TO EDDIE 
EDDIE (into phone) Do I sound like I'm jokin?  He's fuckin driving around with the cop in his trunk. (pause) I don't know who did that.  I don't know who has the loot, if anybody has the loot.  Who's dead, who's alive, who's caught, who's not... I will know, I'm practically there.  But what do I tell these guys about daddy? (pause) You sure that's what he said? (pause) Okay, that's what I'll tell em. 
CUT TO: 
20     EXT.  WAREHOUSE - DAY 
EDDIE I'll call somebody. 
MR. WHITE Who? 
EDDIE A snake charmer, what the fuck d'you think.  I'll call a doctor, take care of him, fix 'm right up. No, where's Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue? 
MR. PINK Brown's dead, we don't know about Blue. 
EDDIE Nobody saw what happened to Mr. Blue? 
MR. BLONDE Well, he's either dead or he's alive or the cops got him or they don't. 
DOLLY to MEDIUM on the cop. 
EDDIE (OS) I take it this is the bastard you told me about. (referring to the cop) Why the hell are you beating on him? 
MR. PINK So he'll tell us who the fuck set us up. 
EDDIE Would you stop it with that shit! You beat on this prick enough, he'll tell ya he started the Chicago fire.  That don't necessarily make it so.  Okay, first things fucking last, where's the shit?  Please tell me somebody brought something with them. 
MR. PINK I got a bag.  I stashed it till I could be sure this place wasn't a police station. 
EDDIE Well, let's go get it.  We also gotta get rid of all those cars. It looks like Sam's hot car lot outside. (pointing to Mr. Blonde) You stay here and babysit Orange and the cop. (referring to Mr. Pink and Mr. White) You two take a car each, I'll follow ya.  You ditch it, I'll pick you up, then we'll pick up the stones.  And while I'm following you, I'll arrange for some sort of a doctor for our friend. 
MR. WHITE We can't leave these guys with him. 
Meaning Mr. Blonde. 
EDDIE Why not? 
Mr. White crosses to Mr. Blonde. 
MR. WHITE Because this guy's a fucking psycho.  And if you think Joe's pissed at us, that ain't nothing compared to how pissed off I am at him, for puttin me in the same room as this bastard. 
MR. BLONDE (to Eddie) You see what I been puttin up with?  As soon as I walk through the door I'm hit with this shit. I tell 'm what you told me about us stayin put and Mr. White whips out his gun, sticks it in my face, and starts screaming "You motherfucker, I'm gonna blow you away, blah, blah, blah." 
MR. WHITE He's the reason the place turned into a shooting gallery. (to Mr. Pink) What are you, a silent partner? Fuckin tell him. 
MR. PINK He seems all right now, but he went crazy in the store. 
MR. WHITE This is what he was doin. 
Mr. White acts out Mr. Blonde shooting everybody in the store. 
MR. BLONDE I told 'em not to touch the alarm. They touched it.  I blew 'em full of holes.  If they hadn't done what I told 'em not it, they'd still be alive. 
MR. WHITE That's your excuse for going on a kill crazy rampage? 
MR. BLONDE I don't like alarms. 
EDDIE What does it matter who stays with the cop?  We ain't lettin him go. Not after he's seen everybody. You should've never took him outta your trunk in the first place. 
MR. PINK We were trying to find out what he knew about the set up. 
EDDIE There is no fuckin set up! (Eddie takes charge) Look, this is the news.  Blondie, you stay here and take care of them two.  White and Pink come with me, 'cuz if Joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front, he's going to be as mad at me as he is at you. 
Then he reaches out and CUTS OFF the cop's/our ear. 
The cop/camera moves around wildly. 
Mr. Blonde holds the ear up to the cop/us to see. 
Mr. Blonde rises, kicking the chair he was sitting on out of the way. 
23     INT./EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY - HANDHELD SHOT 
We follow Mr Blonde as he walks out of the warehouse... 
...to his car.  He opens the trunk, pulls out a large can of gasoline. 
He walks back inside the warehouse... 
24     INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
...carrying the can of gas. 
Mr. Blonde POURS the gasoline all over the cop, who's BEGGING him not to do this. 
Mr. Blonde just sings along with Stealer's Wheel. 
Mr. Blonde LIGHTS up a match and, while mouthing: 
MR. BLONDE "Clowns to the left of me, Jokers to the right.  Here I am, stuck in the middle with you." 
He moves the match up to the cop... 
...When a bullet EXPLODES in Mr. Blonde's chest. 
The HANDHELD camera WHIPS to the right and we see the bloody Mr. Orange FIRING his gun. 
We cut back and forth between Mr. Blonde taking BULLET HITS and Mr. Orange emptying his weapon. 
Mr. Blonde FALLS down dead. 
Mr. Orange crawls to where the cop is, leaving a bloody trail behind him. 
When he reaches the cop's feet he looks up at him. 
MR. ORANGE (feebly) What's your name? 
COP Jeffrey. 
MR. ORANGE Jeffrey what? 
COP Jeffrey Andrews. 
MR. ORANGE Listen to me, Jeffrey Andrews.  I'm a cop. 
JEFFREY I know. 
MR. ORANGE (surprised) You do? 
FREEZE FRAME ON HOLDAWAY 
We are frozen on a MEDIUM CU of Holdaway listening to Freddy.  We HEAR RESTAURANT NOISE and Freddy OFF SCREEN. 
FREDDY (O.S.) Nice Guy Eddie tells me Joe wants to meet me.  He says I should just hang around my apartment and wait for a phone call.  Well after waiting three goddamn days by the fuckin phone, he calls me last night and says Joe's ready, and he'll pick me up in fifteen minutes. 
The freeze frame ENDS.  Holdaway comes suddenly up to speed and says: 
HOLDAWAY Woo all picked you up? 
From here to end we cut back and forth. 
FREDDY Nice Guy.  When we got to the bar... 
HOLDAWAY ...What bar? 
FREDDY The Boots and Socks in Gardena. When we got there, I met Joe and a guy named Mr. White.  It's a phony name.  My name's Mr. Orange. 
HOLDAWAY You ever seen this motherfucker before? 
FREDDY Who, Mr. White? 
HOLDAWAY Yeah. 
FREDDY No, he ain't familiar.  He ain't one of Cabot's soldiers either. He's gotta be from outta town. But Joe knows him real well. 
HOLDAWAY How can you tell? 
FREDDY The way they talk to each other. You can tell they're buddies. 
HOLDAWAY Did the two of you talk? 
FREDDY Me and Mr. White? 
HOLDAWAY Yeah. 
FREDDY A little. 
HOLDAWAY What about? 
FREDDY The Brewers. 
HOLDAWAY The Milwaukee Brewers? 
FREDDY Yeah.  They had just won the night before, and he made a killing off 'em. 
HOLDAWAY Well, if this crook's a Brewers fan, his ass has gotta be from Wisconsin.  And I'll bet you everything from a diddle-eyed Joe to a damned-if-I-know, that in Milwaukee they got a sheet on this Mr. White motherfucker's ass.  I want you to go through the mugs of guys from old Milwaukee with a history of armed robbery, and put a name to that face. 
Holdaway takes a big bite out of his burger. 
HOLDAWAY (with his mouth full) What kinds questions did Cabot ask? 
FREDDY Where I was from, who I knew, how I knew Nice Guy, had I done time, shit like that. 
Holdaway's talked enough, he's eating his burger now.  He motions for Freddy to elaborate. 
FREDDY ...Her brother usually goes with her, but he's in county unexpectedly. 
MR. WHITE What for? 
FREDDY Traffic tickets gone to warrant. They stopped him for something, found the warrants on 'im, took 'im to jail.  She doesn't want to walk around alone with all that weed.  Well, I don't wanna do this, I have a bad feeling about it, but she keeps askin me, keeps askin me, finally I said okay 'cause I'm sick of listening to it.  Well, we're picking this guy up at the train station. 
JOE You're picking the buyer up at the train station?  You're carrying the weed on you? 
FREDDY Yeah, the guy needed it right away.  Don't ask me why.  So we get to the train station, and we're waitin for the guy.  Now I'm carrying the weed in one of those carry-on bags, and I gotta take a piss.  So I tell the connection I'll be right back, I'm goin' to the little boys room... 
CUT TO: 
32     INT.  MEN'S ROOM - TRAIN STATION - DAY 
MEDIUM ON FREDDY 
He walks through the door with a carry-on bag over his shoulder.  Once he's inside, he stops in his tracks.  We move into a CU. 
FREDDY (V.O.) ...So I walk into the men's room, and who's standing there? 
FREEZE FRAME 
on Freddy standing in front of six Los Angeles County Sheriffs and one German Shepherd.  All of their eyes are on Freddy.  Everyone is frozen. 
FREDDY (V.O.) ...six Los Angeles County Sheriffs and a German Shepherd. 
NICE GUY EDDIE (V.O.) They were waiting for you? 
FREDDY (V.O.) No.  They were just a bunch of cops hangin out in the men's room, talkin.  When I walked through the door they all stopped what they were talking about and looked at me. 
33     BACK TO BAR 
ECU MR. WHITE 
MR. WHITE That's hard, man.  That's a fuckin hard situation. 
34     BACK TO MEN'S ROOM 
ECU GERMAN SHEPHERD 
barking his head off. 
FREDDY (V.O.) The German Shepherd starts barkin'.  He's barkin' at me.  I mean it's obvious he's barkin' at me. 
We do a slow 360 around Freddy in the men's room.  We can hear the dog barking. 
FREDDY (V.O.) Every nerve ending, all of my senses, the blood in my veins, everything I has was screaming, "Take off, man, just take off, get the fuck outta there!"  Panic hit me like a bucket of water.  First there was the shock of it--BAM, right in the face!  Then I'm just standin there drenched in panic. 
SLOW MOTION 
CAMERA does a PAN from face to face of the sheriffs. 
FREDDY (V.O.) And all those sheriffs are lookin at me and they know. They can smell it.  As sure as that fuckin dog cam, they can smell it on me. 
FREEZE FRAME 
The CAMERA follows Freddy as he hops around the apartment getting everything he needs.  He puts on his jacket and slips on some sneakers. 
DOLLY fast toward the front door knob.  Freddy's hand comes into FRAME, grabs the knob, then lets go.  We MOVE UP to his face. 
Fear. 
FREDDY (to himself) Don't pussy out on me now.  They don't know.  They don't know shit. (pause) You're not gonna get hurt.  You're fucking Baretta and they believe every word, cuz you're super cool. 
He exits FRAME. We stay put and hear the door open and close OFF SCREEN. 
40     EXT. FREDDY'S APARTMENT - DAY 
COPS' POV 
From inside an unmarked car across the street, the TWO COPS watching Freddy see him walk out of his building and up to Eddie's parked car. 
COP #1 (OS) There goes our boy. 
COP #2 (OS) I swear, a guy has to have rocks in his head the size of Gibraltar to work undercover. 
COP #1 (OS) Do you want one of these? 
COP #2 (OS) Yeah, gimme the bear claw. 
Freddy gets into the car and it pulls into traffic. 
Cop #1 starts the engine and follows. 
41     INT. NICE GUY EDDIE'S CAR (MOVING) - DAY 
Nice Guy Eddie is behind the wheel.  Mr. Pink is in the passenger seat.  Freddy and Mr. White are in the backseat together. 
MR. PINK ...Hey, I know what I'm talkin about, black women ain't the same as white women. 
MR. WHITE (sarcastically) There's a slight difference. 
The car laughs. 
MR. PINK Go ahead and laugh, you know what I mean.  What a while bitch will put up with, a black bitch won't put up with for a minute.  They got a line, and if you cross it, they fuck you up. 
EDDIE I gotta go along with Mr. Pink on this.  I've seen it happen. 
MR. WHITE Okay, Mr. Expert. If this is such a truism, how come every nigger I know treats his woman like a piece of shit? 
MR. PINK I'll make you a bet that those same damn niggers who were showin their ass in public, when their bitches get 'em home, they chill the fuck out. 
MR. WHITE Not these guys. 
MR. PINK Yeah, those guys too. 
EDDIE Let me tell you guys a story.  In one of daddy's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named Elois. 
MR. WHITE Elois? 
EDDIE Yeah, Elois. E and Lois.  We called her Lady E. 
CU ON JOE 
JOE (in a good Brooklyn accent) "That's nothin.  When I take the tip of my tongue and wiggle it against my Mary Louise's little fun pimple, she rises two feet off da bed."  Then our friend from Poland says: (in dumb voice) "You guys ain't no cocksmen. When I get through fuckin my Sophie, I wipe my dick on the curtains and you know what?  She hits the roof!" 
Joe laughs like a crazy man. 
JOE Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! 
We hear a lot of laughing OFF SCREEN. 
JOE Ain't that a masterpiece?  Stupid fuckin Polack, wipes his dick on the drapes. 
Joe's eyes greet the new arrivals. 
JOE You're here, great! 
Joe EXITS C.U. 
We now have everybody from the Uncle Bob's Pancake House scene together again.  Some sit on folding chairs, some stand.  Joe sits in front of them on the edge of a table. A blackboard with a layout of the jewelry store is off to the right. 
We do a 360 around the men. 
EDDIE We woulda gotten here sooner, but we got backed up around La Brea and Pico. 
JOE No hurry. (to the boys) All right, let's get to know one another.  With the exception of Eddie and myself, who you already know, you'll be using aliases. Under no circumstances are you to tell one another your real name or anything else about yourself. That includes where you're from, your wife's name, where you might've done time, about a bank in St. Petersburg you might've robbed.  You guys don't say shit about who you are, where you been or what you've done.  Only thing you guys can talk about is what you're going to do.  This way the only ones who know who the members of the team are are Eddie and myself.  And that's the way I like it.  Because in the unlikely event of one of you getting apprehended by the cops, not that I expect that to happen - it most definitely should not happen - it hasn't happened, you don't have anything to deal with.  You don't know any names.  You know my name, you know Eddie's name.  That I don't care about.  You gotta prove it.  I ain't worried.  Besides, this way you gotta trust me.  I like that.  I set this up and picked the men I wanted for it. None of you came to me, I approached all of you.  I know you.  I know your work, I know your reputation.  I know you as men.  Except for this guy. 
Joe points a finger at Freddy. 
Freddy shits a brick. 
JOE But he's OK.  If he wasn't OK, he wouldn't be here.  Okay, let me introduce everybody to everybody. But once again, at the risk of being redundant, if I even think I hear somebody telling or referring to somebody by their Christian name... (Joe searches for the right words) ...you won't want to be you. Okay, quickly. (pointing at the men as he gives them a name) Mr. Brown, Mr. White, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Orange, and Mr. Pink. 
MR. PINK Why am I Mr. Pink? 
JOE Cause you're a faggot. 
Everybody laughs. 
MR. PINK Why can't we pick out our own colors? 
JOE I tried that once, it don't work. You get four guys fighting over who's gonna be Mr. Black.  Since nobody knows anybody else, nobody wants to back down.  So forget it, I pick.  Be thankful you're not Mr. Yellow. 
MR. BROWN Yeah, but Mr. Brown?  That's too close to Mr. Shit. 
Everybody laughs. 
MR. PINK Yeah, Mr. Pink sounds like Mr. Pussy.  Tell you what, let me be Mr. Purple.  That sounds good to me, I'm Mr. Purple. 
JOE You're not Mr. Purple, somebody from another job's Mr. Purple. You're Mr. Pink. 
MR. WHITE Who cares what your name is?  Who cares if you're Mr. Pink, Mr. Purple, Mr. Pussy, Mr. Piss... 
MR. PINK Oh that's really easy for you to say, you're Mr. White.  You gotta cool-sounding name.  So tell me, Mr. White, if you think "Mr. Pink" is no big deal, you wanna trade? 
JOE Nobody's trading with anybody! Look, this ain't a goddamn fuckin city counsel meeting!  Listen up Mr. Pink.  We got two ways here, my way or the highway.  And you can go down either of 'em.  So what's it gonna be, Mr. Pink? 
MR. WHITE (VO) Mr. Blonde and Mr. Blue? 
FREDDY (VO) Crowd control.  They handle customers and employees in the display area. 
46     INT. MR. WHITE'S CAR (PARKED) - DAY 
Mr. White and Freddy sit in a car parked across the street from the jewelry store, staking it out. 
MR. WHITE Myself and Mr. Pink? 
FREDDY You two take the manager in the back and make him give you the diamonds.  We're there for those stones, period.  Since no display cases are being fucked with, no alarms should go off.  We're out of there in two minutes, not one second longer.  What if the manager won't give up the diamonds? 
MR. WHITE When you're dealing with a store like this, they're insured up the ass.  They're not supposed to give you and resistance whatsoever.  If you get a customer or an employee who thinks he's Charles Bronson, take the butt of your gun and smash their nose in. Drops 'em right to the floor. Everyone jumps, he falls down, screaming, blood squirts out his nose.  Freaks everybody out. Nobody says fuckin shit after that.  You might get some bitch talk shit to ya.  But give her a look, like you're gonna smash her in the face next.  Watch her shut the fuck up.  Now if it's a manager, that's a different story. The managers know better than to fuck around.  So if one's givin you static, he probably thinks he's a real cowboy.  So what you gotta do is break that son-of-a- bitch in two.  If you wanna know something and he won't tell you, cut off one of his fingers.  The little one.  Then you tell 'im his thumb's next.  After that he'll tell ya if he wears ladies underwear.  I'm hungry, let's get a taco. 
CUT TO: 
47     EXT. ALLEY - DAY 
It's the moment of the robbery.  The alley is empty. 
In the distance we hear all hell breaking loose.  Guns FIRING, people SHOUTING and SCREAMING, sirens WAILING, glass BREAKING... 
A car whips around the corner, into the alley. 
The doors BURST open, Freddy and Mr. White hop out. 
Freddy opens the driver's side door.  A bloody SCREAMING Mr. Brown FALLS out. 
MR. BROWN (screaming) My eyes!  My eyes!  I'm blind, I'm fucking blind! 
FREDDY You're not blind, there's just blood in your eyes. 
Mr. White loads his two .45 automatics.  He RUNS to the end of the alley just as a police car comes into SIGHT. 
FIRING both .45's, Mr. White massacres everyone in the patrol car. 
Freddy, holding the dying Mr. Brown, looks on at Mr. White's ambush in shock. 
Mr. Brown lifts his head up, blood in his eyes. 
MR. BROWN Mr. Orange?  You're Mr. Orange, aren't you? 
By the time Freddy turns his head back to him, Mr. Brown is dead. 
Mr. White RUNS up to Freddy. 
MR. WHITE Is he dead? 
Freddy doesn't answer, he can't. 
MR. WHITE Did he did or not? 
Freddy, scared. 
FREDDY I'm sorry. 
MR. WHITE (very calmly to Joe) Joe, I don't know what you think you know, but you're wrong. 
JOE Like hell I am. 
MR. WHITE (very calmly) Joe, trust me on this, you've made a mistake.  He's a good kid. I understand you're hot, you're super-fuckin pissed.  We're all real emotional.  But you're barking up the wrong tree.  I know this man, and he wouldn't do that. 
JOE You don't know jack shit.  I do. This rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue killed. 
MR. PINK Mr. Blue's dead? 
JOE Dead as Dillinger. 
EDDIE The motherfucker killed Vic. 
MR. WHITE How do you know all this? 
JOE He was the only one I wasn't a hundred percent on.  I should have my fucking head examined for goin forward when I wasn't a hundred percent.  But he seemed like a good kid, and I was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up. 
MR. WHITE (screaming) That's your proof? 
JOE You don't need proof when you got instinct.  I ignored it before, but not no more. 
He WHIPS out a revolver and aims it at Mr. Orange. 
Mr. White brings his .45 up at Joe. 
Eddie and Mr. Pink are shook awake by the flash of firearms. 
Eddie raises his gun, pointing it at Mr. White. 
EDDIE Have you lost your fucking mind? Put your gun down! 
Mr. Pink fades into the B.G., wanting no part of this. 
MR. WHITE Joe, you're making a terrible mistake I can't let you make. 
EDDIE Stop pointing your fuckin gun at daddy! 
Joe, never taking his eyes off Mr. Orange. 
JOE Don't worry, Eddie.  Me and Larry have been friends a long time, he ain't gonna shoot.  We like each other too much. 
MR. WHITE Joe, if you kill that man, you die next.  Repeat, if you kill that man, you die next! 
We get many different angles of the Mexican standoff. 
MEDIUMS ON EVERYBODY 
Mr. Orange holding his belly, looking from left to right. 
Joe pointing down on Mr. Orange.  Not taking his eyes off him. 
Mr. White pointing at Joe, looking like he's ready to start firing any minute. 
Eddie scared shitless for his father, gun locked on Mr. White. 
