THE RING by Takahashi Hiroshi 
THE RING 
Original screenplay by Takahashi Hiroshi Based upon the novel by Suzuki Kouji 
This manuscript is intended for informational purposes only, and is a fair usage of copyrighted material. 
Ring (c) 1995 Suzuki Kouji Ring feature film (c) 1998 Ring/Rasen Committee Distributed by PONY CANYON 
Adapted/ Translated by J Lopez 
http://www.somrux.com/ringworld/ 
Caption-- “September 5th.  Sunday.” 
INT. OUISHI HOUSEHOLD – TOMOKO’S ROOM - NIGHT 
CLOSEUP on a TELEVISION SET.  There’s a baseball game on, but the sound is turned completely down.  Camera PANS to show two cute high school girls, MASAMI and TOMOKO.  Masami is seated on the floor at a low coffee table, TEXTBOOK in front of her. Tomoko is at her desk.  There are SNACKS all over the room, and it’s obvious there hasn’t been much studying going on. Masami is currently in mid-story, speaking excitedly. 
MASAMI They say that some elementary school kid spent the night with his parents at a bed and breakfast in Izu.  The kid wanted to go out and play with everybody, right, but he didn’t want to miss the program he always used to watch back in Tokyo, so he records it on the VCR in their room.  But of course the stations in Izu are different from the ones in Tokyo.  In Izu, it was just an empty channel, so he should’ve recorded nothing but static.  But when the kid gets back to his house and watches the tape, all of a sudden this woman comes on the screen and says-- 
Masami points so suddenly and dramatically at her friend that Tomoko actually jumps in her seat. 
MASAMI (cont’d) “One week from now, you will die.” 
Short silence as Masami pauses, relishing the moment. 
MASAMI (cont’d) Of course the kid’s completely freaked, and he stops the video. Just then the phone rings, and when he picks it up a voice says-- 
Her voice drops voice almost to a whisper. 
MASAMI (cont’d) “You watched it, didn’t you?”  That same time, exactly one week later... he’s dead! 
Masami laughs loudly, thoroughly enjoying her own performance. Tomoko, however, is completely silent.  She begins looking more and more distressed, until finally Masami notices. 
MASAMI What is it, Tomoko? 
Tomoko comes out of her chair and drops onto the floor next to her friend.  Her words are quick, earnest. 
TOMOKO Who did you hear that story from? 
MASAMI Who?  It’s just a rumor.  Everybody knows it. 
TOMOKO Youko told you? 
MASAMI No, it wasn’t Youko... 
Tomoko looks away, worried.  Masami slaps her on the knee, laughing. 
ASAKAWA Okazaki, can I ask you a favor? 
OKAZAKI Sure. 
Asakawa points to the newspaper. 
ASAKAWA Could you check out this article for me?  Get me some more info.? 
OKAZAKI I guess... 
ASAKAWA Good.  Call me as soon as you know more, OK? 
OKAZAKI Ma’am. 
Asakawa walks off.  Okazaki, still carrying the videotapes, leans forward to take a look at the article. 
EXT. APARTMENT PARKING LOT - DAY 
Asakawa drives her car into the lot and parks quickly.  She gets out, runs up the STAIRCASE to the third floor.  She stops in front of a door, sticks her KEY in the lock, and opens it. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM – DAY 
A BOY of about 7 is sitting in an ARMCHAIR facing the veranda.  We can see only the back of his head. 
ASAKAWA (O.S.) Yoichi! 
Hearing his name, the boy puts down the BOOK he was reading and stands up, facing the door.  He is wearing a white DRESS SHIRT with a brown sweater-type VEST over it.  He sees Asakawa, his mother, run in the door.  She is panting lightly. 
ASAKAWA Sorry I’m late.  Oh, you’ve already changed. 
YOICHI Yup. 
He points over to his mother’s right. 
YOICHI (cont’d) I got your clothes out for you. 
Asakawa turns to see a DARK SUIT hanging from one of the living room shelves.  She reaches out, takes it. 
ASAKAWA Aargh, we’ve gotta hurry! 
She runs into the next room to change. 
INT.  BEDROOM – DAY 
Asakawa has changed into all-black FUNERAL ATTIRE.  Her hair is up, and she is fastening the clasp to a pearl NECKLACE.  Yoichi is still in the living room. 
ASAKAWA Did grandpa call? 
YOICHI (O.S.) Nope. 
KOUICHI She’s resting inside right now. She’s shaken up pretty badly, you know.  It’s best she just take things easy for a while. 
Asakawa nods. 
ASAKAWA I’ll go check on auntie and them, then. 
KOUICHI OK.  Ah, Yoichi.  Why don’t you sit here for a little while? 
He grabs the young boy and seats him on a cushion next to the two guests. As the guests resume their conversation with Asakawa’s father, Yoichi’s eyes wander to the ALTAR at the front of the room set up to honor the deceased.  It is made of wood, and surrounded by candles, flowers, and small paper lanterns.  At the center is a PICTURE of the deceased, a teenage girl.  A small wooden PLAQUE reads her name: Tomoko Ouishi. It is the same Tomoko from the first scene. 
Yoichi continues to stare at Tomoko’s picture.  He makes a peculiar gesture as he does so, rubbing his index finger in small circles just between his eyes. 
INT. HALLWAY – NIGHT 
Asakawa walks down the hallway, looking for her aunt.  She walks until finding the open doorway to the kitchen.  There are a few people in there, preparing busily. Asakawa sees her AUNT, who rushes into the hallway to meet her, holds her fast by the arm.  The aunt speaks in a fierce, quick whisper. 
AUNT Have you heard anything more about Tomo-chan’s death? 
ASAKAWA No, I... 
AUNT But the police have already finished their autopsy! 
ASAKAWA Well, they said there was no sign of foul play. 
AUNT (shaking her head) That was no normal death.  They haven’t once opened the casket to let us see the body.  Don’t you think that’s strange? 
Asakawa looks away, thinking. 
INT. HALLWAY – NIGHT 
Yoichi has wandered off by himself.  He stops at the foot of the steps, looking up-- and catches a glimpse of a pair of BARE FEET running up to the second floor. 
A guarded expression on his face, Yoichi walks slowly up the stairs. 
INT. OUISHI HOUSEHOLD - TOMOKO’S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Yoichi has wandered into Tomoko’s bedroom.  The lights are all off, and there is an eerie feel to it.  Yoichi’s eyes wander about the room, finally coming to rest on the TELEVISION SET.  Suddenly, he hears his mother’s voice from behind him. 
ASAKWAWA (O.S.) Yoichi? 
Yoichi turns to face her as she approaches, puts an arm around him. 
ASAKAWA What are you doing up here?  You shouldn’t just walk into other people’s rooms. 
Without replying, Yoichi’s gaze slowly returns to the television set.  Asakawa holds him by the shoulders, turning him to meet her. 
ASAKAWA You go on downstairs, OK? 
YOICHI OK. 
GIRL MIDDLE They say she won’t go anywhere near a television. 
INT. NEWS STATION - VIEWING BOOTH – DAY 
Asakawa and YOSHINO, another news reporter, are watching scenes from the Yokohama car death.  In the footage there are lots of POLICEMEN milling about, one of them trying to pick the door to the passenger side.  Yoshino is giving Asakawa the blow-by-blow. 
YOSHINO The bodies of those found were Tsuji Youko, age 17, a student of the Seikei School for Women, and Nomi Takehiko, age 19, preparatory school student.  Both their doors were securely locked. 
Onscreen, the policeman has finally picked the lock.  The door opens, and a girl’s BODY half–falls out, head facing upwards.  Yoshino flicks a BUTTON on the control panel, scans the footage frame by frame.  He stops when he gets a good close-up of the victim. 
Her face is twisted into an insane rictus of fear, mouth open, eyes wide and glassy. Yoshino and Asakawa lean back in their seats. 
YOSHINO This is the first time I’ve -ever- seen something like this. 
ASAKAWA Cause of death? 
YOSHINO Couldn’t say, aside from sudden heart failure. 
ASAKAWA Drugs? 
YOSHINO The autopsy came up negative. 
Yoshino takes the video off pause.  Onscreen, a policeman has caught the young girl’s body from completely falling out, and is pushing it back into the car.  As the body moves into an upright position, we can see that the girl’s PANTIES are mid-way around her left thigh. 
YOSHINO These two, about to go at it, suddenly up and die for no apparent reason. 
He sighs. 
YOSHINO (cont’d) Do -you- get it? 
EXT. OUISHI HOUSEHOLD - DAY 
Asakawa’s CAR is already halted before a modest-sized, two-story HOUSE with a small covered parkway for a garage.  She gets out of her car, closes the door.  She stares at the house, unmoving. 
INT. OUISHI HOUSEHOLD – KITCHEN - DAY 
Asakawa stands before her SISTER RYOMI, who is seated at the kitchen TABLE.  Ryomi is staring blankly away, making no sign of acknowledging her sister.  The silence continues unabated, and Asakawa, pensive, wanders idly into the adjoining dining room.  She takes a long look at the television, the same television that had puzzled Tomoko by suddenly switching itself on, sitting darkly in one corner.  Her reflection in the screen looks stretched, distorted. 
RYOMI	(O.S.) They tell me that Yoichi came to the funeral, too. 
Asakawa steps back into the kitchen.  She addresses her sister, who continues to stare out at nothing. 
ASAKAWA Mmm-hmm. 
RYOMI They used to play a lot together, didn’t they?  Upstairs. 
ASAKAWA Yeah... 
Ryomi lapses back into a silence.  Asakawa waits for her to say more, but when it is clear that nothing else is forthcoming, she quietly gives up and exits the kitchen. 
Yoichi walks off.  Asakawa goes back to the stove, but stops after only a few stirs, staring off and thinking. 
Caption-- “September 13th.  Monday.” 
EXT. ROAD – DAY 
Asakawa drives her car speedily along a narrow country road, LEAVES blowing up in her wake. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S CAR - DAY 
Asakawa mutters to herself, deep in thought. 
ASAKAWA There’s no way... 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD – DAY 
Asakawa’s car drives past a sign reading: 
IZU PACIFIC LAND 
EXT. IZU PACIFIC LAND - DRIVEWAY – DAY 
Asakawa has left her car and is walking around the driveway of what is less a bed and breakfast and more like a series of cabin-style rental COTTAGES. 
She wanders about for a while, trying to get her bearings.  She pauses now in front of a particular cottage and reaches into her PURSE.  She withdraws the PICTURE from the photomat, the one that showed Tomoko and her friends with their faces all blurred.  The four are posing in front of their cottage, marked in the photograph as “B4.”  Asakawa lowers the photo to regard the cottage before her. 
B4 
She walks to the door, turns the handle experimentally.  It’s open. Asakawa walks in. 
INT. PACIFIC LAND - COTTAGE B4 – DAY 
Asakawa lets her eyes wander around the cottage.  It looks very modern, all wood paneling and spacious comfort. 
Her eyes rest on the TV/VCR setup at the front of the room.  Crouching before the VCR now, she presses the eject button.  Nothing happens. She fingers the inside of the deck, finds it empty, then reaches behind to the rear of the VCR, searching.  Again, there is nothing.  Asakawa presses the power button on the television, picks up the REMOTE, and takes a seat on the SOFA.  She runs through a few channels but they’re all talk shows, no clues whatsoever.  She flicks the TV off and leans back in the sofa, sighing. 
Just then, she spies a LEDGER on the coffee table.  These things are sometimes left in hotels in Japan, so that guests can write a few comments about their stay for others to read.  Asakawa picks the ledger up, begins thumbing through it.  She stops at a strange PICTURE obviously drawn by a child, that shows three rotund, almost entirely round personages.  She reads the handwritten MESSAGE. 
ASAKAWA "My dad is fat.  My mom is fat. That’s why I’m fat, too." 
She smiles in spite of herself. 
Asakawa flips through the rest of the ledger, but there’s nothing else of any import. 
She tosses it back onto the coffee table and, sighing again, leans into the sofa and closes her eyes. 
EXT. OUTDOOR CAFÉ - DUSK 
Asakawa eats silently, alone. 
It’s not the moon at all, she realizes.  The shape is round like a full moon, but it seems to be made up of thin RIBBONS of cloud streaking against a night sky.  And there’s a FACE, she sees, a face hidden in shadows, looking down from above. 
What is this? 
The scene changes now, and Asakawa notes that the tape has that kind of grainy quality one sees in 3rd or 4th generation copies.  The scene is of a WOMAN brushing her long hair before an oval-shaped MIRROR.  The nerve- wracking grating as if of some giant metallic insect sounds in the background, but the lady doesn’t seem to notice.  The mirror the lady is using to brush her hair suddenly changes position from the left part of the wall before which she stands, to the right.  Almost instantly the mirror returns to its original position, but in that one moment in its changed location we see a small FIGURE in a white GOWN.  The woman turns towards where that figure stood, and smiles. 
The screen next becomes a twitching, undulating impenetrable sea of the kanji characters used in the Japanese language.  Asakawa can pick out only two things recognizable: 
local     volcanic eruption 
Now the screen is awash in PEOPLE-- crawling, scrabbling, shambling masses, some of them moving in reverse.  A sound like moaning accompanies them. 
A FIGURE stands upon a shore, its face shrouded.  It points accusingly, not towards the screen, but at something unseen off to one side.  The insect-like screeching sounds louder. 
Close up on inhuman, alien-looking EYE.  Inside that eye a single character is reflected in reverse:  SADA, meaning "chastity." 
The eye blinks once, twice.  The symbol remains. 
A long shot of an outdoor, uncovered WELL. 
Sudden loud, blinding STATIC as the tape ends. 
Asakawa turns the TV off, looking physically drained.  She sighs shakily and slumps forward, resting on her knees.  Just then, she glances at the television screen.  She sees, reflected, a small FIGURE in a white gown standing at the rear of the room.  Shocked, Asakawa draws in breath, spins around. 
The room is empty.  Asakawa runs to the sofa to collect her jacket-- 
--and the RINGING of the telephone stops her dead in her tracks.  Zombie- like, she walks towards the telephone, picks it up wordlessly. 
From the other end comes the same metallic, insectoid SQUEAKING heard on the video.  Asakawa slams the phone down and glances up at the CLOCK. It’s about seven minutes after 7 P.M. 
ASAKAWA (to herself) One week 
Asakawa grabs her coat, pops the tape out of the deck, and runs out the door. 
EXT. STREET – DAY 
It is dark and raining heavily.  Yoichi, Asakawa’s son, is walking to school, UMBRELLA firmly in hand.  The sidewalk is quite narrow, and Yoichi comes to a halt when a second PERSON comes from the opposite direction, blocking his way. Yoichi slowly raises his umbrella, peers up to look at this other pedestrian.  It is a MAN, a BAG slung over one shoulder.  He has a beard; unusual for Japan where clean-shaven is the norm. 
The two continue looking directly at each other, neither moving nor speaking.  Yoichi then walks around the person’s left and continues on his way.  The man resumes walking as well. 
Caption-- “September 14th.  Tuesday.” 
EXT. OUTSIDE AN APARTMENT DOOR - DAY 
The bearded man, whose name is RYUJI, reaches out to press the DOORBELL, but the door has already opened from within.  Asakawa leans out, holding the door open for him.  Neither of them speaks.  Wordlessly, Ryuji enters the apartment. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT - DAY 
Ryuji puts his bag down, looks around the apartment.  The interior is dark, ominous somehow.  He takes his JACKET off and wanders into the living room. Asakawa is in the kitchen behind him, preparing TEA.  Ryuji spies the collection of FRAMED PHOTOGRAPHS in living room. 
Asakawa re-enters her apartment. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
RYUJI Well, it looks like your phone’s not ringing. 
Ryuji pops the tape from the deck, hands it to Asakawa. 
RYUJI Make me a copy of this, will you? I’d like to do a little research of my own. There’s no reason to write us off as dead just yet. 
He dramatically takes a seat. 
RYUJI	(cont’d) If there’s a video, that means that somebody had to make it. 
ASAKAWA There’s the guest list from the cottage to look into... and the possibility of someone hacking into the local station’s broadcast signals. 
Asakawa pulls a NOTEPAD from her purse and begins busily scribbling away. 
INT. NEWS STATION - DAY 
Okazaki putters around. 
Caption-— “September 15th.  Tuesday.” 
INT. NEWS STATION - VIEWING BOOTH – DAY 
Asakawa sits by herself, reviewing the videotape.  She is replaying the very last scene, an outdoor shot of a well.  She stares at it carefully, and notices... 
The tape ends, filling the screen with static.  A split-second afterwards, there is a KNOCK on the door and Okazaki enters, holding a FILE.  Asakawa momentarily forgets about the video. 
OKAZAKI (handing her the file) Here’s that guest list you wanted. 
ASAKAWA Oh, thanks. 
OKAZAKI What are you gonna do with this? 
ASAKAWA Uh... sorry, I’m working on something personal. 
EXT. IN FRONT OF A TRAIN STATION - DAY 
Some quick shots of a FOUNTAIN gushing water, PIGEONS flapping away looking agitated.  CUT to Ryuji sitting on a BENCH.  He’s deep in thought, writing in a NOTEPAD. There are multitudes of PEOPLE about him, and we can hear the sounds of their coming and going.  A PAIR OF LEGS attached to a woman in white dress, hose, and pumps appears, heading directly for Ryuji.  Her pace is slow, rhythmical, and as that pace progresses all other sounds FADE into the background, so that all we can hear is the CLOMP, CLOMP as those legs walk to stand just before Ryuji.  The pumps are scuffed, dirtied with grime. 
A gust of WIND rips by.  Ryuji fights the urge to look up as in his ears rings the same hollowed, multi-voiced BABBLING heard on the videotape.  The sound grows stronger. 
RYUJI (VO) So, it was you.  You did it. 
The babbling fades, disappears as slowly the world’s normal background sounds return.  Ryuji looks up, but the woman in white is nowhere to be seen. 
EXT. OUTSIDE RYUJI’S APARTMENT – AFTERNOON 
She takes the remote from Ryuji, rewinds it a ways.  Onscreen, the woman begins coming her long hair again. 
ASAKAWA From this angle, the mirror should be reflecting whoever’s filming. 
RYUJI So, what does that mean? 
Asakawa lets out a short sigh. 
ASAKAWA Well, if the person who made this is a pro, there’d be a way around that, I guess, but still... 
The screen changes, showing the mass of squiggling kanji characters again. 
RYUJI (reading) Volcanic eruption... Eruption where? 
He pauses the screen, trying to make sense of what is written. 
ASAKAWA This is gonna be impossible to figure out on just a regular TV screen, don’t you think? 
They are both still staring at the screen when from behind them comes the SOUND of someone opening the front door.  Ryuji turns off the TV, ejects the tape from the deck. 
RYUJI Come on in. 
Asakawa flashes a look at Ryuji and then turns her head back towards the front door to see who has entered.  A cute, nervous-looking young GIRL with short hair approaches slowly.  She is carrying a PLASTIC BAG filled with groceries. 
RYUJI Asakawa, meet my student, Takano Mai. 
He turns, addresses Mai. 
RYUJI	(cont’d) This is Asakawa, my ex-wife. 
Ryuji gets up and walks conveniently away. 
MAI Nice to meet you.  I’m Takano. 
ASAKAWA Asakawa. * 
> * As you may already be aware, Japanese name order is the >opposite of English’s, and even close friends may continue to >address one another by their last names.  Incidentally, Asakawa’s >first name is “Reiko.”  In this scene, Mai deferentially refers >to Ryuji as sensei, meaning “teacher.” 
Mai sets the bag of groceries down and chases after Ryuji.  He is putting on his jacket and getting ready to leave. 
MAI Sensei, the people from the publishing company called about the deadline on your thesis again. 
RYUJI (brusquely) What’re they talkin’ to you about it for? 
MAI Because they can never get a hold of you. 
Ryuji picks up his keys, video firmly in hand. 
RYUJI Ask them to wait another week. 
Asakawa nods.  Ryuji is already writing it down excitedly. 
ASAKAWA What does that mean? 
Ryuji tears the sheet of paper off the notepad, folds it, and tucks it into his shirt pocket. 
RYUJI I’m gonna check it out. 
EXT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT COMPLEX - MORNING 
Yoichi is walking to school.  He looks back over his shoulder, just once,then resumes walking. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT - MORNING 
All the lights are turned off, and she is sitting on the living room couch watching the footage of her café interview with the junior high school girls. 
Caption-- “September 16th.  Thursday.” 
Just when the girl in the interview mentions that whomever watches the video is supposed to afterwards receive a phone call, Asakawa’s own phone RINGS, startling her. She runs to answer it. 
ASAKAWA Hello? 
RYUJI (O.S.) I’ve got it.  It’s a dialect, just like I thought.  SHOUMON means “playing in the water” and BOUKON means “monster.” * 
>* Translated from standard Japanese, the phrase from the videotape >would initially have sounded like, "If only SHOUMON then the >BOUKON will come."  These two capitalized words, later identified to >be dialectical, were at the time completely incomprehensible to Ryuji >and Asakawa.  Dialect can vary dramatically from region to region in >Japan, to the point of speakers of different dialect being unable to >understand one another. 
>The phrase on the tape can now be rendered, "If you keep playing in >the water, the monster will come for you." 
ASAKAWA But, dialect from where? 
RYUJI Oshima.  And the site of our “eruption” is Mt. Mihara. 
INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 
Ryuji and Asakawa are seated at cubicles, looking through bound ARCHIVES of old newspaper articles.  Asakawa sneaks a look at Ryuji, stands up and walks off a little ways.  She has already pulled out her cell phone. 
ASAKAWA (whispering, on phone) Yoichi?  I’m gonna be a little late tonight, honey. 
Ryuji looks over his shoulder at her, scowls. 
ASAKAWA You can do it yourself, right?  OK. Sorry.  Bye. 
She hangs up, returns to her seat at the cubicle.  She resumes her scanning of the newspaper articles, and Ryuji shoots her another scowl. Asakawa turns a page and then stops, frowning.  She has spied an article that looks like... 
Nervously, Asakawa puts the thumb and forefinger of each hand together, forming the shape of a rectangle.  Or a screen.  She places the rectangle over the article she has just discovered, its headlines reading: 
Mount Mihara Erupts 	Local Residents Urged to Take Precautions 
Ryuji notices her, leans forward excitedly. 
Yoichi tries to scoop up the fish his grandfather is pointing out. 
KOUICHI Oh, oh!  Ah... guess he got away, huh? 
YOICHI That was your fault, grandpa. 
Asakawa’s father laughs. 
KOUICHI Well, whaddya say we try again? 
He begins sloshing noisily out to the center of the stream, Yoichi in tow. 
KOUICHI We’ll get ‘im this time. 
Asakawa looks away, pensive. 
INT. KOUICHI’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Yoichi is passed out asleep on the tatami mats.  A TELEVISION looms inone corner of the living room, but it is switched off.  The SLIDING DOORS to the adjacent guest room are open and we can see futons set out, ready for bed. 
Asakawa enters the living room and, seeing Yoichi, scoops him up in her arms and carries him over to the guest room. 
YOICHI (sleepily) How was work, mommy? 
Asakawa tucks him into the futons and walks silently off. 
INT. KOUICHI’S HOUSE - STAIRCASE — NIGHT 
Asakawa stands at the foot of the staircase, telephone RECEIVER in hand.  The phone rests on a small STAND by the staircase. 
ASAKAWA Hello? 
RYUJI (O.S.) Yeah.  Your Oshima contact came through.  It looks like the woman who predicted the Mihara eruption is the same woman from the video. 
INT. RYUJI’S APARTMENT — NIGHT 
Ryuji is crouched in front of the TV, REMOTE in hand.  The screen is paused on the scene of the woman brushing her long hair. 
RYUJI Her name is Yamamura Shizuko.  She committed suicide forty years ago by throwing herself into Mt. Mihara. 
INT. KOUJI’S HOUSE – STAIRCASE - NIGHT 
ASAKAWA Have you got anything else? 
RYUJI (O.S.) I’m gonna have to check it for myself.  I’ll be leaving for Oshima tomorrow morning. 
ASAKAWA Oshima?  I’ve only got three days left! 
RYUJI (O.S.) I know.  And I’ve got four. 
RYUJI I should’ve been more careful. When I was at your place that day, I could feel something there.  I thought it was just because of the video... 
ASAKAWA You mean that Tomoko— 
RYUJI That’s not Tomoko.  Not anymore. 
ASAKAWA Yoichi... he can see them too, can’t he? 
Ryuji nods his head, lowers it sadly. 
ASAKAWA It’s all my fault.  First Tomoko died, then those three others.  It should have stopped there, but it didn’t.  Because of me. 
RYUJI I wonder... 
Asakawa turns to Ryuji suddenly. 
ASAKAWA How did the rumors about the video even start in the first place? 
RYUJI This kind of thing... it doesn’t start by one person telling a story.  It’s more like everyone’s fear just takes on a life of its own. 
ASAKAWA Fear... 
RYUJI Or maybe it’s not fear at all. Maybe it’s what we were secretly hoping for all along. 
EXT. PORT — DAY 
The ship has docked, its GANGPLANK extended.  Ryuji and Asakawa walk the length of the gangplank towards the shore.  A man named MR. HAYATSU is already waiting for them.  He holds up a white SIGNBOARD in both hands. 
ASAKAWA Mr. Hayatsu? 
HAYATSU Aah, welcome!  You must be tired after your long trip.  Please, this way. 
Mr. Hayatsu leads Asakawa and Ryuji to an awaiting minivan. 
Caption-- “September 18th.  Saturday.” 
INT. HAYATSU’S MINIVAN - DAY 
Ryuji and Asakawa sit in the back.  Mr. Hayatsu is behind the wheel, chattering away. 
HAYATSU Back in the old days, the Yamamuras used to head fishing boats out in Sashikiji, though they don’t much anymore.  You know, one of Shizuko’s cousins is still alive. He’s just an old man now.  His son and his daughter-in-law run an old-fashioned inn.  I went ahead and booked reservations for y’all, hope that’s alright... 
Asakawa gives the briefest of nods in reply, after which the minivan lapses into silence.  Asakawa looks dreamily out at the mountain-studded landscape, then suddenly snaps to. 
ASAKAWA (to Ryuji) Why did Yamamura Shizuko commit suicide? 
RYUJI She was taking a real beating in the press, being called a fraud and all sorts of names. After a while she just lost it. 
CUT to a scene of the minivan speeding along a country road. 
KAZUE And for your rooms, how shall we...? 
RYUJI Separate, please. 
KAZUE ‘Sir. 
INT. YAMAMURA VILLA - 2ND FLOOR – DAY 
Kazue gives a little bow. 
KAZUE This way. 
Kazue turns to the right.  Almost immediately after reaching the top of the steps, however, a strange look crosses Ryuji’s face. He heads down the opposite end of the corridor, Asakawa close behind. 
KAZUE (alarmed) Sir! 
Ryuji flings open the SLIDING DOOR to one of the older rooms.  There, hanging from one of the walls, is the oval-shaped MIRROR from the video, the one used by the mysterious lady to brush her long hair. Ryuji stares at the mirror, almost wincing.  He turns around as if to look at Asakawa,but continues turning, looks past her.  Asakawa follows his gaze, as does Kazue.  Standing at the end of the corridor is an old man, MR. YAMAMURA. 
Yamamura regards them silently, balefully.  Breaking the silence, Kazue gestures for Asakawa and Ryuji to follow. 
KAZUE (softly) Please, this way. 
Asakawa races past the innkeeper towards the old man.  He keeps his back turned towards her. 
ASAKAWA Please!  If you could just answer a few questions, about Shizuko... 
YAMAMURA I got nuthin’ to say. 
ASAKAWA It’s about Shizuko’s daughter. 
The old man says nothing. 
ASAKAWA She did have a daughter, didn’t she? 
Yamamura regards her for a moment, then turns to walk away. 
YAMAMURA You’re wasting your time. 
INT. YAMAMURA VILLA - DINING ROOM – NIGHT 
The TABLE is laid out with an elaborate-looking DINNER.  Asakawa sits alone, knees curled up to her chin, eyes wide and frightened. She is whimpering softly to herself.  Just then, the DOOR slides open and Ryuji walks in.  He sits at the table and picks up a pair of CHOPSTICKS. 
RYUJI Aren’t you gonna eat? 
ASAKAWA Umm... 
RYUJI Hm? 
ASAKAWA You’ll stay with me won’t you? When it’s time for me to die. 
VOICE Shoumon bakkari... boukon ga kuru zo... 
EXT. IZU SEASHORE - DAY 
Asakawa watches Ryuji stride down the shore. 
Caption-- “September 19th.  Monday.” 
Ryuji strolls up to find old man Yamamura sitting alone, staring out at the sea.  Yamamura glances up to see Ryuji approaching. Ryuji takes a seat next to the old man, but it’s Yamamura who speaks first.  The deep basso of his voice emphasizes the drawl of his accent. 
YAMAMURA Y’all’d do best to be off soon. Sea’s probably gonna be rough tonight. 
RYUJI What kind of a child was Shizuko? 
YAMAMURA Shizuko was... different.  She’d come out here by herself ever’day an’ just stare out at the ocean.  The fishermen all took a dislikin’ to her.  Ocean’s an unlucky place for us, y’see: every year it swallows up more of our own. You keep starin’ out at somethin’ ike that... 
RYUJI Shoumon bakkari shite’ru to, boukon ga kuru zo.  “If you keep playing in the water, the monster will come for you.” 
Yamamura looks at Ryuji, surprised. 
RYUJI Shizuko could see “inside” people, couldn’t she?  Down to the places they’d most like to keep hidden.  It must have been difficult for her... 
Yamamura rises unsteadily to his feet, features twisted angrily. 
YAMAMURA Please leave!  Now! 
Ryuji stands, takes hold of Yamamura’s arm. 
RYUJI I’ve got a little of that ability myself.  It was you who spread the word about Shizuko, wasn’t it? And you who first contacted Professor Ikuma? 
YAMAMURA What’re you--? 
RYUJI You thought you’d be able to make some money off her.  You even got some, from one of the newspapers. 
YAMAMURA Leave me the hell alone! 
Mr. Yamamura strides angrily off.  Both Ryuji and Asakawa take pursuit, Ryuji calling out from behind Yamamura’s back. 
RYUJI Tell us about Shizuko’s daughter. Who was she? 
YAMAMURA I don’t know! 
RYUJI She was there, with Shizuko. She had to be. 
Yamamura’s pace, which has become increasingly erratic, finally causes him to stumble and fall.  Ryuji comes up behind him, grasping him firmly.  At their touch Ryuji’s power awakens, and as he peers into the old man’s mind there is a sudden blinding 
FLASH 
The setting is a large MEETING HALL.  A number of people are seated in folding chairs before a STAGE, on which are a four MEN in BUSINESS SUITS and a WOMAN in a KIMONO.  A BANNER hangs above the stage, which reads PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION ON THE EXISTENCE OF CLAIRVOYANCE. 
SHIZUKO Sadako?  Was it you? 
CUT to Ryuji on the beach.  He looks up excitedly. 
RYUJI Sadako?! 
He recalls the image from the video, the alien eye with the single character SADA reflected in reverse. * 
>* The majority of girls' names in Japanese end in either -mi ("beauty") >or -ko ("child").  Thus, Sadako means "Chaste child."  Sadako is, of >course, the mysterious daughter of Shizuko and Professor Ikuma. 
RYUJI Sadako killed him?  She can kill just with a thought? 
YAMAMURA She’s... a devil spawn. 
CUT back to the demonstration hall.  Sadako, her face completely hidden by her long hair, runs offstage... and heads directly for Asakawa. Asakawa instinctively raises her arm, and Sadako grasps it fiercely. All the nails on Sadako’ hand are stripped away; her fingers are raw, bloody stumps. 
CUT back to the beach.  Asakawa, still caught in the throes of the vision, has begun to swoon.  Finally her legs give out and she crumples to the beach.  Ryuji grabs hold of her supportively.  He glances down at her wrist, sees an ugly, purple BRUISE already beginning to form. 
The bruise is in the shape of five long, spindly fingers. 
Mr. Yamamura slowly rises to a sitting position, and together the three watch the approach of ominous, dark STORM CLOUDS. 
INT. MR. HAYATSU’S HOUSE – DUSK 
Asakawa is on the phone, her voice almost frantic. 
ASAKAWA That’s right. After Yamamura Shizuko committed suicide, Professor Ikuma took the daughter and ran.  No, no one knows where they went.  That’s why I need -you- to find out where they are. Even if the professor’s dead, Sadako should still be in her forties.  I’ll explain it all later, but right now just hurry! 
Asakawa slams the phone down.  PAN to show Ryuji slumped in one corner of the room, his back to the wall. 
RYUJI Sadako’s probably already dead.  She could kill people with just a thought, remember?  Her mother wasn’t even close to that. 
ASAKAWA (flustered) Well, what about that video?  If Sadako’s dead then who made it? 
RYUJI Nobody made it. It wasn’t made at all. That video... is the pure, physical manifestation of Sadako’s hatred. 
Ryuji turns to regard Asakawa, his eyes blank. 
RYUJI We’ve been cursed. 
There is a moment of silence before Mr. Hayatsu slides the door open, almost falling into the room.  He is out of breath, and speaks rapidly. 
HAYATSU It’s no good.  With the typhoon coming in, all ships are temporarily staying docked. 
RYUJI What about the fishing boats? Tell their captains I’ll pay. 
HAYATSU Fishing boats?  Sir, without knowing whether this typhoon is going to hit us or not, I think it’d be better to wait and see how things turn-- 
Ryuji interrupts him, slamming both palms on the table.  Glasses rattle wildly. 
The three fall into silence as they realize the powerlessness of their situation.  Suddenly, a deep VOICE booms from behind them. 
YAMAMURA (O.S.) I’ll take you out. 
The three spin around to see Mr. Yamamura, his ROBES flapping in the gusty night air. He begins walking towards them. 
YAMAMURA Sadako is callin’ y’all, reckon. Mayhap to drag you down under the water. 
Short silence.  Ryuji shoots a short questioning glance at Asakawa, turns back to face Mr. Yamamura. 
RYUJI Please.  Take us out. 
EXT. OCEAN – NIGHT 
A tiny FISHING BOAT is tossed about on the waves.  Mr. Yamamura stands at the wheel, his face expressionless. 
INT. MR. YAMAMURA’S FISHING BOAT – NIGHT 
Ryuji and Asakawa are crouched close together in the cabin.  Asakawa’s expression is dreamy, faraway. 
ASAKAWA It’s funny.  I’m not afraid at all. 
Ryuji leans over, rubs her hand comfortingly.  Suddenly he switches back into analytical mode. 
RYUJI Sadako probably died back out there at Izu, before the rental cottages were ever built. 
ASAKAWA So, Sadako was Professor Ikuma’s daughter? 
RYUJI (nodding) Ikuma smuggled her out in secret. His relationship with Shizuko was already a scandal, and one of the reasons he got drummed out of the university... We’ve gotta find Sadako’s body. 
ASAKAWA (excitedly) Is that going to break the curse? Will Yoichi be all right? 
RYUJI It’s all we’ve got left to try. 
ASAKAWA Just one more day... 
Ryuji puts his arm around Asakawa. 
EXT. MR. YAMAMURA’S FISHING BOAT - DAWN 
Ryuji stands on deck, looking out over the water.  He heads down below toward the captain’s area.  Mr. Yamamura is at the wheel. 
RYUJI We made it.  Maybe Sadako doesn’t have it out for us after all. 
Long pause as Mr. Yamamura says nothing. 
YAMAMURA Shizuko... she used to -speak- to the ocean, just ramble away.  One time I hid, listenin’ to one of her conversations. 
Mr. Yamamura pauses again. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD – DAY 
The white rental car tears past the SIGN reading Izu Pacific Land. The car continues into the LOT, screeching around corners before coming to an abrupt halt.  Asakawa, her face still oddly expressionless, gets out of the passenger side.  Ryuji exits as well, the hint of a shudder running through him as he regards the series of rental cabins. 
RYUJI -Here-. 
CUT to Asakawa and Ryuji walking up the gravel PATH towards the rental cabins.  Ryuji looks back over his shoulder as both he and Asakawa stop before cabin B4.  The cabin is on STILTS, its underbelly fenced off by wooden LATICEWORK.  Ryuji drops most of his supplies to the ground, but keeps hold of the PICK.  He raises the pick over one shoulder and begins smashing away at the latticework.  When he has cleared enough space for passage, he begins picking up supplies and tossing them hastily within. When finished, he holds a hand out for Asakawa.  The two enter the earthen basement. 
UNDER COTTAGE B4 - DAY 
Ryuji pulls a FLASHLIGHT out, flicks it on.  The BEAM arcs outwards, illuminating what looks more like an old mine shaft than a modern rental cottage.  The beam halts when it suddenly encounters an old STONE WELL.  The well is badly chipped on one side, and sealed off with a solid-looking stone LID.  Ryuji rushes quickly towards it. 
RYUJI I knew it!  The well. 
He squats down beside the well, setting the flashlight on the lid.  Asakawa sinks slowly down beside him. 
ASAKAWA The well... 
Ryuji reaches out and takes Asakawa’s hand.  He sets their enclasped hands onto the lid, and together they begin lightly tracing the surface of the lid with their free hands.  Asakawa closes her eyes in concentration... and suddenly, as with the incident on the beach, Asakawa finds herself drawn into Ryuji’s psychometric VISION. 
FLASH 
The picture is black and white, grainy like old film.  A YOUNG GIRL in a WHITE GOWN walks slowly towards an open well. She places her hand on the LIP of the well, peers curiously down. 
FLASH 
Asakawa looks up, her eyes wide open. 
FLASH 
There is now a second person in the vision, an ELDERLY MAN in an old- fashioned tweed SUIT standing behind the young girl.  He suddenly produces some BLADED OBJECT, and strikes the girl savagely across the back of the head. 
The girl falls forward. The man drops to the ground, grabbing the girl behind the knees and hoisting her limp BODY over the lip and into the well.  The body falls into its depths. 
Panting heavily, the man leans forward and grasps the lip of the well with both hands, looking down.  He flashes a guilty look in either direction, checking that his crime has gone unnoticed, and as he does so Asakawa realizes that she knows this face.  The image from the videotape, like a face in the moon: it had been Sadako inside the well, looking up to see this man staring back down at her. 
This man whose name is Professor Ikuma Heihachiro. 
FLASH 
ASAKAWA Her own father! 
The energy seems to drain out of Asakawa in a rush, and her body crumbles.  Ryuji catches hold of her. 
RYUJI It was Ikuma who put this lid on. And Sadako’s still inside. 
Ryuji stands quickly, takes hold of the crowbar.  He inserts it under the lid and begins trying to pry it off, face scrunched with effort. Asakawa digs her fingers in and lends her own strength as well. Slowly, the lid begins to move.  Ryuji tosses the crowbar aside and the two lean the combined weight of their bodies into it.  The lid slides off, dropping to the earth with a dull THUD.  Ryuji sits to one side, winded with effort, as Asakawa takes hold of the flashlight.  She shines it down into the well, but it only seems to intensify the gloom. What WATER she can see looks fetid and brackish.  Ryuji sees her expression and begins removing his JACKET. 
RYUJI I’ll go. 
Asakawa emerges, taking in the dawn.  At first her face is calm and tranquil... but her features change as the sun almost noticeably darkens and a WIND begins to kick up her hair.  She now looks very anxious. 
Caption-- “September 21st.  Tuesday.” 
NOTE: This next scene is entirely visual.  If you are reading this translation before watching the movie, do yourself a favor; STOP reading this now and watch the scene for itself. 
INT. RYUJI’S APARTMENT – MORNING 
Ryuji is busy scribbling away at his notes again.  His hand suddenly ceases, eyes dancing worriedly as he hears a faint... 
No. 
Breath rattling fearfully in his throat, Ryuji spins around to face the TELEVISION SET.  He gets out of his seat for a better look, falling to his knees on the tatami. 
The image that fills the screen is the last scene from the videotape; the shot of the well. 
The SOUND from before comes louder now, more insistent, a metallic screeching that both repulses and beckons him closer. Ryuji crawls on all fours towards the SCREEN, stares at its unchanging image with terrible foreboding. 
There is a flash of MOTION as something shoots out of the well. A hand. First one, and then another, as Sadako, still in her grimy white dress, face hidden beneath long, oily strands of hair, begins slowly pulling herself out.  The television screen jumps unsteadily, fills with static as if barely able to contain her image. 
CUT back and forth between Ryuji, who is beginning to visibly panic, and the television, which shows Sadako lurching ever closer. 
RYUJI (almost frantic) Why?! 
The TELEPHONE rings, and Ryuji spins round towards it, breath catching in his throat.  He looks at the phone, over his shoulder at the television, back to the phone. 
RYUJI That’s it!  Asakawa... 
Ryuji scrambles wildly towards the phone.  He takes the receiver but is unable to do more than clutch it fearfully as his gaze is drawn inexorably back to the television.  Sadako’s shrouded face has filled the entire screen... and then, television popping and crackling, she jerks forward and emerges from the television onto the floor of Ryuji’s apartment.  Ryuji backs away, screaming in terror. 
RYUJI Aaargh! 
Sadako lies prone, collapsed, hair splayed out like a drowned corpse. Only her FINGERS are active, crawling, feeling.  The TIPS of her fingers are little more than bloodied stumps, not a single fingernail on them.  She uses the strength in those fingers to pull herself forward, coming jerkily to her feet.  The joints of her body twist unnaturally, more insect-like than human. 
Ryuji flings the phone aside and begins scrambling about the apartment as if looking for cover.  The strength has already begun to fade from his body, however, and his movements are clumsy, exaggerated. He falls to the floor, panting heavily. 
Sadako turns to regard him, and for just an instant we can see beneath her impenetrable shroud of hair; a single EYE burns with manic, unbridled hatred. 
Its gaze meets Ryuji’s, and his face twists into a grimace as he SCREAMS loudly. 
FLASH 
EXT. KOUJI’S HOUSE - FRONT YARD – DAY 
Yoichi sits on the lawn, doodling into a large SKETCHPAD.  He suddenly stops, eyes registering that he has somehow felt his father’s death. 
INT. ASAKAWA’S APARTMENT – DAY 
Asakawa clutches the RECEIVER to her ear.  She can still hear the sounds of metallic SCREECHING coming from the video, though they are now becoming softer. 
