"Ronin", early, by J.D. Zeik 
RONIN 
an original screenplay by 
J.D. Zeik 
DRAFT: May 20, 1997 
A BLOOD RED SCREEN - A JAPANESE DRUM starts to play, softly, but tinged with a desperate edge, growing louder, joined by other DRUMS as a BLACK LEGEND scrolls up: In feudal Japan, the warrior class of Samurai were sworn to protect their liege lords with their lives.  Those Samurai whose liege was killed suffered a great shame, and they were forced to wander the land, looking for work as hired swords or bandits.  These masterless warriors were no longer referred to as Samurai, they were known by another name: Such men were called Ronin. The words hang on the screen and we hold for a BEAT, and then the DRUMS are cut off by - A SILENCED GUN SHOT: Thwpfft... 
FADE IN ON: 
INT. A MEDIEVAL CATHEDRAL - NIGHT 
It's dark, and so it takes us a minute to realize we're MOVING UP STONE SPIRALING STAIRS, up up up in what we now see is a medieval cathedral.  And as we continue MOVING UP something TRICKLES DOWN INTO FRAME - BLOOD.  Running thin, then thicker, as we CONTINUE TO MOVE UP the stairs and find - A BODY, sprawled awkwardly across the stones, arms and legs akimbo, not so much Christ-like as victim-like.  In one hand the Body holds a GUN he never had a chance to use.  In the other - A DARK SHAPE, we can't quite tell what it is. FOOTSTEPS sound from above and - THE KILLER walks into frame, silenced pistol dangling at his side.  We don't know him, and it's going to be a while before we see him again, but mark his face because we'll see him again.  The Killer now picks up the dark shape in the Body's hand, and we see it's - A BRIEFCASE.  The Killer cuffs the Briefcase to his wrist and turns to - TWO MEN standing behind him: subordinates.  The Killer shows them the Briefcase. 
KILLER God loves me. 
THE BODY suddenly twitches -- this guy is not quite dead. The Killer raises his silenced pistol. 
KILLER (to his victim) But I don't think he's too fond of you... 
SLAM CUT TO: 
EXT. A BACK STREET - PARIS - NIGHT 
A PHONE RINGS, replacing the sound of the silenced gun shot we expected to hear. 
Rain-slicked cobblestones gleam in a twinkling of streetlight. 
EXT. A PHONE BOOTH AT THE END OF THE STREET 
The source of the ringing.  We start to PUSH SLOWLY IN one the phone booth, and as we do we hear the VOICE of an UGLY AMERICAN. 
UGLY AMERICAN (V.O.) What is this? 
CUT TO: 
INT. A DRIVE BAR IN PARIS - NIGHT 
A SOCCER MATCH is in progress on a TV which sits above the bar in this smokey, dim dive. 
UGLY AMERICAN (O.S.) This is not football... 
And now we're PULLING BACK DOWN THE LENGTH OF THE BAR.  We see THREE MEN sitting seperately at the bar, paying no attention to each other.  One of these men watches the game with real interest.  The Ugly American talks on from off screen. 
UGLY AMERICAN (O.S.) (continuing) ...Football is three hundred pound guys, they run way too fucking fast, they got helmets made of kevlar they use to spear the quarterback into the next life. 
SLAM CUT TO: 
EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE 
The phone is still ringing, louder now, and we're MOVING TOWARDS it while looking THROUGH AN UNSEEN PAIR OF EYES, and even as we drink this in we're back in - 
INT. THE BAR 
AT THE END OF THE BAR - LARRY, the Ugly American.  He's got an obvious attitude, all of it bad.  But there's something about the guy -- he's not all bluster, and he has the look of a seasoned tough guy who knows how to get rough and tumble. He's big, and yeah he's got a gut, but the rest of him looks solid. 
LARRY (talking to the air) You wanna know what football is?  It's hitting the other guy dirty and then spitting in his face when he's down. Football is all things American, and American is A-Number-One the absolute fucking best there is.  That's what football is... (he points to the TV) ...And that's not football. 
The one man at the bar who's been watching the gam turns slowly and gives Larry a long look.  This is VINCENT: French, hard boiled and solid.  Charming when he wants to be, which isn't all that often.  He gives Larry a long look and then speaks - 
VINCENT (to Larry in perfect English) Football -- American football -- is a game for faggots. 
A BEAT.  The other two men at the bar, who seem like tough customers themselves, pretend not to watch too closely, but they're interested: what's Larry going to say?  For a moment it seems as if he's pissed, but then suddenly a smile breaks out on his face and he laughs heartily at Vincent's remark. Vincent joins in, as do the others.  In particular - THE BARTENDER looks relieved -- he's tough enough to toss a bar drunk, but these guys are in a different league.  The Bartender laughs with the others, happy to have avoided a confrontation as we go back to - 
VINCENT (lighting his cigarette) The question isn't what we're waiting for... it's who. 
LARRY And who the fuck is that? 
GREGOR Whoever hired us. 
SAM I got this gig through a contractor. And he most definitely didn't know who was doing the hiring, only that they were paying a lot of money... 
There's a kind of general look around the table -- a nod or grunt of acknowledgement, indicating that all of these men were hired the same way. 
SAM (continuing his thought) So none of us knows who's paying the freight, this is just some anonymous job. For all we know, we're working for different people. 
GREGOR Now that is an interesting proposition. 
SWEDE How so? 
GREGOR Because if there's more than one party involved, if we really are working for different people, then perhaps some of us are on different sides. (with great meaning) Your orders might be different from mine. 
LARRY What're you talking about, man?  I don't understand. 
SWEDE (quietly, but loud enough to be heard) What a surprise... 
LARRY I got a surprise for you, blondie... 
GREGOR (sharply, as if he's used to giving orders) Why don't both of you shut up? 
LARRY & SWEDE (to Gregor at the same time) Fuck you! 
SAM Knock it off! 
There is a BEAT.  Gregor, Swede and Larry look at Sam, who glares them all down.  Lastly, Sam turns and looks at Vincent.  The two men nod at one another, acknowledging a kind of mutual respect. 
SAM The point remains: we could be working for different people.  There's a chance for one of us... (looks around the table) Maybe more than one of us -- has been paid to cross the others.  I don't know about you guys, but I like to know who I'm working for.  It can help prevent a great deal of... (finding the right word) ...unpleasantness. 
LARRY (patting the gun inside his cheap suit) Anybody tries to unpleasant me I'll put two between his eyes -- one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes. 
From OFF SCREEN we hear a new sound: LAUGHTER.  ANOTHER ANGLE - 
Deirdre has entered the bar, and she's amused by this last exchange. 
DEIRDRE It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking. 
LARRY Who the fuck are you? 
DEIRDRE (staring at Larry) The name is Deirdre, and I'm running this show. 
GREGOR Who are you?  IRA? 
DEIRDRE (with a brittle laugh) Not likely.  Once, yeah, I was -- but there wasn't an inch of profit in it, and I'm a cash oriented girl, if you take my meaning.  I'm a hired gun, same as the rest of you, and that's all any of us needs to know about the other. 
Deirdre hands out several thick envelopes.  Larry and Swede open theirs and stare at the wads of Franc Notes stuffed inside.  Even Gregor cracks his envelope and peaks at his money.  But neither Vincent nor Sam takes a look. 
DEIRDRE From here on in you want something you pay cash for it: no credit cards, no bank accounts are in place: ten percent up front, the rest when the job is done. (a quick beat, then she looks at Gregor) You.  What do you do and what should we call you? 
GREGOR These days they they call me Gregor -- and I'm a tech.  I do electronic work, surveillance, computer runs. 
Deirdre turns to Sam. 
SAM Sam.  I'm a weapons guy. 
DEIRDRE You were a soldier, were you? 
SAM Once. 
Deirdre gives Sam a look -- and he returns it.  Finally, Deirdre turns to Larry. 
LARRY I drive -- and my name is Larry.  Larry from the States. 
GREGOR I'd stake my reputation. 
DEIRDRE But would you stake your life, that's the question... 
GREGOR In this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same. 
From off screen we hear MUNCHING.  It's - Larry inhaling a sandwich.  A malicious look comes over Swede's face, who's cleaning a pistol and sitting near Larry. 
SWEDE You should watch what you eat. 
LARRY Who the fuck died and appointed you food czar? 
SWEDE I'm just worried about your health, Larry.  You could stand to shed a few pounds. 
LARRY (sensitive about his weight) And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde fuck? 
SWEDE (sensitive about the dumb blonde thing) Who you calling dumb, dickless? 
Both men eyeball one another, and then suddenly Larry reaches for his piece, and as soon as he does this Swede does the same thing, but before they can do anything - DEIRDRE'S GUN swings INTO FRAME, smashing Swede in the face and dropping him to the floor.  Larry's mouth drops open in surprise, but it's too late: Deirdre kicks him in the stomach and then rabbit punches him in the back of the neck, driving him to the ground. 
DEIRDRE (standing above them) Next one of you fuckers plays this game I'm going to do for you myself.  I won't say it again: we don't have time for this shit!  There's a clock running on this job, gentlemen, and I mean to be on schedule. 
A TENSE MOMENT as Deirdre stares down at these tough guys -- letting them know who's in charge.  A SOUND from OFF SCREEN interrupts this moment: a DOOR opening, as we see - Vincent, who stands in the door, wearing his coat and hat. 
He's been out somewhere, and he looks first at the squabbling men, and then at - Deirdre.  She gives Vincent a little nod -- a silent command that makes Vincent turn to Sam. 
VINCENT Let's go for a ride. 
Vincent and Sam start off, moving towards the door, while Swede and larry slowly pick themselves up off the ground. 
SAM Where to? 
VINCENT To see a man about a thing. 
SAM I can do that. 
EXT. THE WAREHOUSE - SUNSET 
A DESOLATE URBAN LANDSCAPE - Sam and Vincent walking away from the warehouse, which is housed in what looks to be the toughest neighborhood in the city, filled with CHEAP CONCRETE PUBLIC HOUSING and INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS. 
THE SETTING SUN throws a red glow on the street, giving the raw concrete buildings a blood-colored tint, as Sam and Vincent approach a FIAT, a car neither too old nor too new. Before they can reach the car, the two men are intercepted by FOUR TOUGHS, young guys in their early twenties.  The LEADER of the Toughs apporaches Vincent. 
LEADER (subtitled French) Who gave you permission to park here? 
SAM (to Vincent) What's he saying? 
VINCENT Pretty much what you'd expect. 
SAM (with a sigh) That's what I thought. 
LEADER (in French) There's a charge for parking on our block. 
The other Toughs add lib a few tough guy remarks (in French, of course). 
VINCENT (to Sam) He says this is their block. 
SAM As in, they own it? 
VINCENT Something like that... 
SAM And I suppose he's saying that we oughta give them something for using it, huh? 
VINCENT I didn't know that you spoke French. 
SAM I don't.  But the language he's speaking is universal. 
ANGLE ON THE LEADER - Who's smirking at Vincent and Sam. Sam's words make a great deal of sense: the Leader is speaking the universal language of "give me some money or I'll kick your ass." 
SAM Watch that one, he's an ex-spook for sure, maybe Stasi, maybe KGB.  He's smart, Gregor is. 
VINCENT So is the woman. 
SAM Deirdre?  Smart, yeah, and seriously goddamned dangerous. 
VINCENT I wonder if she truly left the IRA. 
SAM I've wondered that myself.  None of this answers my question, though... (suddenly direct) Why bring me? 
VINCENT I wanted to see who you were. 
SAM Who am I? 
Vincent, driving all the while, gives Sam a sideways glance before speaking. 
VINCENT You were once some kind of special forces.  Airborne Ranger, maybe a Navy SEAL.  After that you rode shotgun for the CIA in some place like El Salvador or Afghanistan, a real mercenary. (beat) Only now -- now you're like the rest of us, it's a very competitive market since the end of the cold war.  There's a lot of hired guns out here, and not nearly enough work to go around. 
SAM That's right: there's not hardly enough work these days, nothing that pays the big money, anyhow.  Then along comes this job, paying so much goddamned money I couldn't afford not to take it.  Somebody's paying through the nose for this. 
VINCENT They certainly are.  Whatever it is we're going to steal, it must be quite something. 
SAM Whatever it is it must be goddamned priceless. 
And on that thought we - 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A SIDE STREET - NIGHT 
The Fiat pulls up to the curb and Vincent and Sam get out. Vincent leads Sam around a corner and they come to - 
AN EXQUISITE PARK, a small, perfectly manicured place -- a kind of mini-Luxembourg Gardens in the middle of nowhere. When Sam sees the park, he draws an involuntary breath. 
VINCENT Lovely, isn't it? 
SAM They'd have to keep something like this under lock and key in New York, and it would still get fucked up. 
The two men enter the park, which is, indeed, open to the public.  Inside, sitting on a bench in the back, almost invisible from the street, we see - FRANCOIS, a stubble-faced tough with a stained shirt and bad teeth.  Vincent and Sam draw near.  This next conversation between Francois and Vincent is in FRENCH WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES. 
FRANCOIS That's good right where you are, Vincent. 
Vincent signals for Sam to stop.  Both Vincent and Sam are still several feet away from Francois. 
VINCENT Do you have it? 
FRANCOIS Not so fast. (nods slightly to Sam) Who's that? 
VINCENT He's company. 
FRANCOIS (as if he recognizes Sam) Bad company... 
VINCENT What do you mean? 
FRANCOIS He's a cop, Vincent, he's French and he's a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now! 
Sam hasn't said a word -- he doesn't seem to understand what's been said, but he has noted the urgency with which Francois spoke.  Now - We HOLD FOR A BEAT.  Neither Vincent nor Francois pulls out a piece to shoot Sam.  Instead they wait to see if Sam will respond in any way to what Francois said.  The conversation now switches to ENGLISH, which (it turns out) Francois speaks fairly well. 
SAM (to Vincent) What's going on? 
VINCENT I just wanted to see something. 
SAM (that edge creeping into his voice) See what? 
Vincent isn't going to answer, but the overbearing Francois chimes in. 
FRANCOIS He wanted to see how you reacted when I said that you were a cop. 
EXT. AN APARTMENT HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER/NIGHT 
Vincent's Fiat is parked at the curb in front of this apartment house.  Vincent and Sam exit the car and move towards the house -- a silence hanging between them.  Right before they go into the house, Vincent takes out the envelope full of cash that was supposed to have been for Francois.  He thinks for a moment and then hands the whole envelope to Sam. 
VINCENT You saved my life back there in the park. I know this doesn't begin to make it right between us... 
Vincent's voice trails off -- he doesn't know what to say. Sam takes the money out of the envelope -- half he keeps for himself, the other he gives to Vincent. 
SAM What I did back in the park I did because we're working together -- we're on the same team. (holding up the money) This is business -- this is work.  We did it together, we share the spoils, even split. 
Sam opens the door to the house, but Vincent has one last thing to say to him. 
VINCENT I owe you a heavy debt. 
Sam almost smiles cynically at this: debts of honor don't seem to be something he believes in. 
SAM Whatever you say. 
They enter the house and the door closes behind them.  A second later we hear - 
DEIRDRE (V.O.) What'd you do with the money? 
INT. THE HOUSE - A LITTLE LATER 
Vincent and Sam sit with Deirdre in a room, alone.  They've told her about the park, and she seems a little pissed about all of this. 
VINCENT We kept it... 
DEIRDRE (a little annoyed) Is that right? 
SAM Hazard pay... 
DEIRDRE (with an exhalation of disgust) The two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information, and instead you went to fucking war... 
SAM We weren't real thrilled about it either... 
Deirdre shakes her head in disgust and rises.  We FOLLOW HER INTO - 
AN ADJOINING ROOM - 
Where Larry, Swede and Gregor are waiting.  They look up expectantly at Deirdre, who crosses through the room without stopping -- she's really pissed about this turn of events. 
LARRY So what's the deal? 
DEIRDRE (barely stopping, very snappish) The deal?  The deal is we leave for Nice at first light. 
And she exits, leaving these three men behind along with Sam and Vincent, who have entered from the other room.  larry looks at the two of them. 
LARRY What'd you guys do? 
EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT 
A CAR sits, cloaked in shadows.  Inside sits our friend, the WATCHER.  Once again we see the Watcher's knife -- once again he manicures his nails with it, almost delicately, as he watches the House.  It's dark -- a single light glows behind a window on the third floor.  Sam's room. 
INT. SAM'S ROOM - SAME TIME 
Sam has pushed all the furniture aside to make enough room to do a martial arts form.  Right now he's frozen, one leg extended in a kick, balancing on the other leg.  Now - A KNOCK at his door -- seconds later, it opens.  Deirdre stands there, watching as Sam holds his position for a BEAT more, and then retracts his leg. 
DEIRDRE I feel as if I've wandered onto the set of Enter The Dragon.  Could you teach me to do that? 
SAM I didn't think to see you again tonight. You were pretty pissed. 
DEIRDRE I still am. 
SAM Is that right? 
DEIRDRE That's right. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - Sam is somehow sitting up, wide awake -- looking at Deirdre with a penetrating glance. 
DEIRDRE Look, Sam, don't take it the wrong way when I tell you we won't be doing this again. 
SAM You don't have to explain yourself to me, Deirdre. 
DEIRDRE (almost surprised by this) I know I don't have to, Sam, it's just that, for once, I want to.  when I was a - (almost with a sneer) Patriot, it was a given I'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with.  You know: any man who needed setting up.  Sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be killed. (a quick beat) Sometimes so I could kill him myself. IRA isn't exactly an enlightened feminist organization, Sam.  To most of the men I with I was always the girl.  "Send the girl to do it."  "Tell The girl to take care of it."  "Have the girl fuck him." (a quick beat) But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no less. 
SAM You're a hired gun, Deirdre -- just like me. 
DEIRDRE Exactly.  And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me. 
Somewhere in all of this Deirdre has sat back down on the bed, and somehow now she's only inches away from Sam. They're lips brush and - 
A MUTED PHONE RINGS in a nearby room, breaking the moment.  A QUICK BEAT, then - 
DEIRDRE I better be getting that. 
SAM Duty calls? 
DEIRDRE (with a trace of a sigh) Just business. 
Deirdre gives Sam a light kiss on the lips and then she opens his door.  The muted phone is a little louder now.  Deirdre closes Sam's door as she exits, but - Sam reaches out a hand and catches the door right before it snaps shut.  He watches THROUGH THE DOOR CRACK as - Deirdre cross the hall and opens the door to her room, and now the phone rings loudly until the door shuts, muting the sound once again, shutting Sam out.  The phone stops ringing as Deirdre answers and as this happens Sam shuts his door and as the door closes we go to - BLACK.  Just for a second.  And then - BLINDING SUN hits us in the eyes as we find ourselves above - 
EXT. NICE - DAY 
A DAZZLING OVERHEAD MOVING SHOT, establishing that we've changed locales, moved to a place filled with sun and blue water and reflective surfaces: the Cote d'Azure.  We start to MOVE DOWN TOWARDS - 
EXT. A PRIVATE BEACH - NICE - MEANWHILE 
A TOPLESS GRANDMA reclines on a beach chair, soaking up rays, sipping a drinnk just delivered by a young stud of a WAITER. Nearby - 
AT A ROUND TABLE - 
A nice distance from anyone who might try to listen in, we find our group: Deirdre, Sam, Vincent, Gregor, Swede, and Larry.  Food and drink surround them.  Larry is, of couse, still eating. 
DEIRDRE Now then, let's run through it one more time, shall we? (to Gregor) What's your job? 
GREGOR I use my cell phone to get computer access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target.  I trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through Nice, relaying that information to you. 
DEIRDRE (to Larry) Next. 
LARRY (a sigh, he's done this too many times) You call me with the target's route, I follow along until we've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road. 
DEIRDRE (to Swede) Which leads us to... 
SWEDE I ride with fat-boy... 
LARRY (under his breath) Eat shit and die slowly... 
SWEDE After we stop the target car I get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard. 
LARRY I blast the lead car into oblivion... 
VINCENT (picking up) While Sam and I take out the back two cars... 
DEIRDRE Leaving... 
SWEDE (picking it up) ...Leaving me to step in, drop the target in the back seat, and get the package... 
DEIRDRE (with a quick look at Sam) While... 
SAM (returning her look) ...While I back him up, making sure to get the package if something goes wrong and somebody takes Swede down. 
Nobody else seems to notice this look between them, but we should -- if only to note that there's something about the way Deirdre queries Sam about his role, and something about the way Sam answers her without overly reacting -- they're not flirting, but there's a kind of acknowledgment of the history they now have between them.  But -- nobody else notices, and Swede's line follows Sam's without breaking the flow of the dialogue. 
SWEDE Nobody's taking me anywhere... 
SWEDE It's consider a virtue in some corners of the world. 
LARRY Not in mine. 
THE CAR PHONE rings, and Swede pushes a button.  Deirdre's Voice is heard on the speaker phone. 
DEIRDRE (V.O.) Hello gentlemen, are we ready? 
EXT. THE CAFE 
Deirdre looks at her laptop and relays Gregor's instructions. She speaks over her headset as if she's conducting ordinary business -- as if she's giving someone traffic directs over the phone.  The JAPANESE DRUMS continue, quiet and yet intense. 
DEIRDRE You want to take a left, then, so that you're going west. 
During this next sequence, the DRUMS will continue to play, building with the action as we do - 
THE CHASE MONTAGE: A SERIES OF CUTS AS - 
The Volvo takes a flying left turn - 
Gregor watches the Target on his computer as it moves towards the Promenade des Anglais, typing the results on his keyboard as - The Volvo careens down a steep hill, hits a bump, and flies through the air a good fifteen feet, even as - The Fiat follows close behind and hits the same bump, does the same flight through the air and lands with a thud - 
THE CARAVAN of cars - 
THE TARGET CAR - 
THE TARGET, still talking away on his cell phone - THE COMPUTER MAP tracking the Target's movements, as the Map shifts and moves as it keeps pace with the target, and now - 
The Promenade des Anglais is right ahead and the DRUMS build to a crescendo as - 
The Volvo SMASHES into the Target Car and they grind together, as - 
CARS 3 & 4 in the Caravan are cut off by Vincent's Fiat, which forces them to slam to a halt, as - 
Larry runs the Target Car to a halt and the JAPANESE DRUMS stop. 
Larry and Swede hop out of the Volvo, and Swede brandishes a MONSTER of a MACHINE GUN, with which he opens fire, a blast of huge guage shells spitting a trail of fire, smashing against THE WINDSHIELD of the Target Car, which is bullet- proof.  The windshield doesn't break right away -- but the heavy blast of firepower causes the windsield to buckle. 
Sam and Vincent are now out of the Fiat, guns drawn, blazing away at BODYGUARDS, and Christ, there's an army of them, pouring out of Cars 3 & 4.  These guys are armed and returning fire as - 
Larry gets out of the driver's seat of the Volvo, and he's got some kind of sumbitch weapons himself, a ROCKET LAUNCHER, which he points and fires - And now we TRACK THE MISSLE as it scorches the air, traveling towards - 
The LEAD CAR of the caravan which has only now realized what's going on behind it, and as frantic Bodyguards drive back towards the carnage - The Missle IMPACTS, blowing the Car sideways. 
Meanwhile - Sam and Vincent are taking out the Other Bodyguards, and these guys are warriors -- they moves as a team, each man with a gun in both hands, using a weapon until it's out of bullets and then discarding it in favor of a new one. 
And even as this is going on - Deirdre has joined the fray, firing both of her pistols, taking Sam's place at Vincent's side so that Sam can run towards - 
The Target Car, where the Target is seated in the backseat, pulling out his own piece, ready to fight to the death himself as - 
Swede continues blasting away at the windshield with his monster gun, and now - The Windshield has started to crack and splinter, and abruptly, it shatters, instantly bursting a bright red as Swede's bullets tear up the body of the Driver. 
Now Sam has reaches the Target Car, just as the Target, who is armed and, as we know, not exactly helpless, steps out of the car and sights in on Swede and - ZING!  Sam fires, winging the Target, knocking the gun out of his hand and still the Target won't give up without a struggle, he hits Swede with the Briefcase. 
THE TARGET Fuck you! 
SWEDE Not today. 
BANG.  Swede puts one shot between the Target's eyes, ending his life.  Now - Swede takes out a DAI-SHO, the smaller of the two traditional Japanese Samurai swords.  With one slashing blow he hacks off the Target's HAND AT THE WRIST and grabs the briefcase.  The SEVERED HAND is still caught in the handcuffs, so that it is carried along for the ride.  Now - DISTANT SIRENS sound from OFF SCREEN as Swede moves back towards Larry and the Volvo, and as he goes he raises the briefcase (with its severed hand) in a kind of mock salute to Sam, who starts to move back towards Deirdre and Vincent, who have taken care of the remaining Bodyguards, and now the SIRENS are growing closer as we - START TO MOVE IN SLOW MOTION as Swede approaches the Volvo and - Deirdre and Vincent are already at Vincent's Fiat, waiting for Sam, and so they don't notice that - A VAN has been parked nearby this entire time, and now the van's side door slides open, and unseen by any of the others - Gregor steps out of the Van, a gun at his side, and a predatory look on his face as - Swede reaches Larry and the Volvo just as - Sam has reaches the Fiat, and now he looks back and sees - Gregor, crossing the street, and now - Sam screams a warning to Larry, but it's way too late because - Swede shoots Larry in the neck, hitting him above the protective covering of his bullet proof vest.  Now we're MOVING IN REAL TIME as - Larry manages to get his backup piece drawn, a snub-nosed .38, and he fires all six shots into - Swede, hitting him in the stomach -- it's the same way Larry shot the target in the warehouse.  Swede is sent flying backwards, where he crashes to the pavement.  For a second we think he's dead, but then he gets up, in pain but alive, just as Sam predicted.  Swede claws at his shirt to reveal that he too wears a bullet proof vest.  By now - Larry has rolled out of the Volvo, crawling away but too weak to go far, and now - Swede has Larry in his sights, he's going to kill him. 
SWEDE I don't particularly like killing, tubby, but I want you to know that this one I'm going to enjoy. 
LARRY (sees something over Swede's shoulder) I don't think so. 
Swede turns to follow Larry's gaze, and as he does - Gregor walks INTO FRAME and puts his gun right beneath Swede's chin. Before Swede can even compute this, Gregor pulls the trigger, firing straight up into Swede's brain.  Then, without even looking at Larry, who is lying helpless on the ground - Gregor takes the briefcase and gets into the Volvo, driving off just as - Sam arrives, kneeling down by Larry.  The SIRENS get louder. 
LARRY (in shock) He just...I don't believe that son-of- a... 
THE BATHROOM: pitch black.  He moves in, swipes the string of the overhead light and - nothing.  Nobody's here.  The only place left is the front door, and now Vincent approaches.  He opens the door, gun still at ready, and moves out into - 
INT. THE LANDING OUTSIDE - SAME TIME 
This is a small building.  There is no other apartment on the floor.  At the far end of the landing, there is a small ladder which leads up to - 
THE ROOF.  And the door which leads to the roof is flapping in a light wind. 
EXT. THE ROOF - SAME TIME 
Vincent bursts onto the roof, gun straight out, finger on the trigger, only to find - Sam is there, his gun pointed at Vincent.  A BEAT, then both men give little laughs and put their weapons away, like Samurai so trained in combat that they know when it's safe to relax. 
SAM What's going on? 
VINCENT You weren't around when I woke up, I thought maybe something had happened. (off Sam's look) This has been one very fucked up job, Sam, and I'm not taking any more chances on anybody... (a quick beat) Including you... 
In answer Sam takes out Vincent's pack of cigarettes and tosses them back to him.  Vincent looks almost delighted at this. 
SAM I came up here to sneak a smoke. 
VINCENT You were smoking? 
SAM I hope you don't mind I took your pack. It was on the table. 
VINCENT (very sincere, offering the pack) Please, help yourself.  Smoke as many you'd like. 
Sam considers for a minute, and then takes one.  Vincent does so as well, and he searches for his lighter, which he can't seem to find, because - Sam has it, and he lights their cigarettes, and then hands the lighter back to Vincent. 
SAM (a shrug of the shoulders) I borrowed that, too... 
VINCENT (puffing contentedly) Of course...whenever you feel like it just help yourself. 
SAM I have a feeling I'm about to start buying my own. 
BEAT.  The two men smoke in silence, looking out at - 
THE CURVED SHORELINE OF NICE - 
Which glitters with thousands of lights from the apartment buildings, and a thousand more from the cars that travel on the road that leads into town: the Promenade des Anglais. 
VINCENT (O.S.) That was a bad bit of business, today. 
BACK ON Sam and Vincent. 
SAM It was at that. 
VINCENT A lot of people died. 
SAM I've seen a lot of people die before. 
VINCENT I haven't.  Not like that.  How do you get used to it? 
SAM You don't.  You just learn to live with it. 
VINCENT I won't lie -- there have been times when I had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't. 
SAM We live in a singular world, my friend. 
VINCENT I never really thought I was part of the world you move in, Sam, to tell you the truth. (off his look) I'm a hood, a thief.  Big time in a small time king of way.  To the local police I'm a prize, to the local hoods I'm a legend.  But to a guy like you I'm just another two bit hired gun. 
SAM You might be a hired gun, Vincent, but I got a feeling you cost more than two bits. 
This conversation might have gone further, but it is interrupted when Deirdre pokes her head up onto the roof. 
DEIRDRE Christ, I was starting to think that the two of you had thrown it in and walked away. (to Vincent) There's someone on the phone downstairs asking for you, and my somewhat limited French leads me to believe that he might have something to tell us about Gregor. 
EXT. THE HIGHWAY - LATER - NIGHT 
CUT AWAY TO REVEAL: Vincent - 
Who has finished his phone call and returned to join them. 
VINCENT ...but we've got to get back on the road. 
Vincent raps lightly on the car window next to Sam's head -- Sam's eyes shoot open: a light sleeper.  All eyes are on Vincent, who waits for a BEAT before he reveals his news. 
VINCENT We've got him. 
LARRY I'm driving. 
EXT. THE TOWN SQUARE - A LITTLE LATER - DAY 
Gregor is seated where we saw him last -- at the little table in the corner cafe.  He's been here for hours, observing the Town Square, and now, he finally sees what he's been looking for - TWO MEN, definitely not tourists here for the music, have entered the Square -- everything about these guys screams GUNMEN.  Now, as Gregor watches - A PUNKED-OUT TEEN comes up to the men and hands them a small envelope.  The Gunmen look around the Square, trying to see where Gregor is, but he's too far back in the shadows.  The Gunmen ask the Teen a question, to which the Teen can only shrug his shoulders.  Now - The Teen walks away, leaving the Gunmen to open the envelope and look at its contents, which are quickly read.  From OFF SCREEN we hear the sound of Gregor punching in a number on his cell phone.  Simultaneously, the Gunmen finish reading the instructions Gregor has sent them, and turn around to face - A PAY PHONE.  The phone rings, and one of the Gunmen goes to pick it up. 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET - MEANWHILE 
The Citroen pulls into town and slows to a crawl, cruising the streets, looking for Gregor. 
INT. THE CITROEN - SAME TIME 
Vincent stares out of the window and sees something that causes him to swear under his breath in French.  It's - 
The Gunmen walking down the street. 
VINCENT I know those men. 
Sam frowns: he also seems to recognize at least one of the gunmen.  None of the others in the car notice Sam's reaction, but we do.  The Gunmen are heading straight for - 
EXT. THE ANCIENT ROMAN THEATER - MEANWHILE 
THE MID-AFTERNOON SUN shines down on the open air Roman Theater.  The theater itself is almost two thousand year old.  A semi-circle of seats surrounds a huge Stage Wall, a massive structure which is one of the best preserved of its kind in the world.  THE GUNMEN enter at the bottom of the theater, holding ticket stubs.  They are with a Tour Group led by an ANCIENT GEEZER who speaks in rapid-fire French.  As the tour moves off to see the Stage Wall, the Gunmen hang back and then separate from the crowd. 
EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATER - SAME TIME 
THE CITROEN sits at a curb.  Larry sits behind the wheel of the car, the getaway driver with the motor running.  Vincent and Deirdre are already walking towards the Theater.  Sam stays behind for a second to say something to Larry. 
SAM Whatever you hear, whatever happens, when your partners come back out, you make sure you're here with the motor running. 
And on that note Sam follows after Vincent and Deirdre. Larry doesn't notice it, but - THE WATCHER has found them. He's a block or so away, wearing a two-day stubble of beard and hugging the shadows of back alley.  Cradled in one hand, barely visible but ominously present: his knife, which for one moment catches a glint of sun that hits our eyes as we - 
CUT TO: 
EXT. INSIDE THE ROMAN THEATER - MEANWHILE 
The Gunmen have reached a point about midway up the coliseum- like staircase.  Behind them we can see the Tour Group, standing on the stage, being lectured to by the Ancient Geezer.  In front of them the Gunmen find - 
AN EXIT which leads to an interior hall.  Inside the exit it's dark, while a bright sun falls down on the Gunmen.  They look into the dark, unable to see a thing, while a voice come at them from out of the dark. 
GREGOR (V.O.) Thank you, gentleman, that will do nicely. 
IN THE HALL - 
ON GREGOR.  It's dark in here.  There are no lights, no torches.  From the dark in here, he can look out and see - THE GUNMEN, who make plain targets, backlit as they are by the sun.  Now we CUT BACK AND FORTH between these two ANGLES, and it becomes clear that Gregor has chosen wisely -- he can see his quarry, but they can't see him. 
GREGOR Edvard, is that you? 
EDVARD, the more dangerous looking of the two Gunmen responds. 
EDVARD Yes, Gregor, they sent me. 
GREGOR I'm touched, really, that they'd send someone of your caliber.  It's nice to know that they didn't make the mistake of underestimating me twice. 
EDVARD That was a mistake, trying to kill you. Mikhi did it without consulting me, I'd have never allowed it. 
GREGOR I'm sure.  But I'm sorry to say that it's too late for trust: we have a serious problem. 
Where Larry has heard the shot -- his piece is drawn, but he's been ordered to stay in the car.  In frustration he slams on the steering wheel, as we see that - Behind Larry, the Watcher is slowly closing in, knife poised to strike as we go back - 
INTO THE THEATER - 
Edvard tries to get to the exit, but there are too many Tourists in his way, and he proceeds to shoot several of them, including the Dad we saw earlier.  Seconds later, Edvard has vanished into the tunnels, and now - Vincent and Sam meet in the middle of the crowd.  There is time for a QUICK BEAT, while Vincent glares at Sam. 
VINCENT You're a cop...you're a fucking cop...I should kill you. 
SAM But you can't. 
And now Sam runs into the tunnel, after the others, leaving Vincent for a fraction of a second to sigh, and then follow Sam into - 
THE TUNNELS - 
It's like being in the tunnels and ramps of a sporting arena. Except that everything here is made of stone and the only light comes from the sun which streams in through the exit openings which are spaced far enough apart that they provide just barely enough light for us to see.  Now we do a SERIES OF QUICK CUTS - Sam running, followed by - Vincent, while - Edvard takes a wrong turn down a dark hall and comes to a dead end.  He turns around, looking for a way out as - Gregor sees the final exit ahead of him as we go - 
OUT IN THE STREET - Larry is still behind the wheel of the Citroen, anxiously looking at the exit, not realizing that - The Watches is almost on him, and now we're back - 
IN THE TUNNELS - 
Deirdre comes running around a corner, and now she's almost reached the exit as - 
OUT IN THE STREET - 
Gregor hits the street running.  He doesn't notice the Citroen parked ahead, because he's never seen it before, but as he runs by - 
The car door swings open and Gregor runs straight into it. He smashes into the door and falls to the ground, injured. Strong Hands reach out of the car and pull him in.  It's the Watcher, and let's give him a name now because he needs one: SEAMUS REILLY.  Seated in the front seat is - A very dead Larry.  Seamus has cut his throat from ear to ear. 
SEAMUS (to Gregor, with an Irish accent) If you want to live you'll do exactly as I tell you. 
THROUGH THE BACK WINDOW - Deirdre appears, exiting the theater and running towards the Citroen as we go back to - 
INT. THE TUNNELS - SAME TIME 
Vincent, gun drawn, moves warily down one of the tunnels. Outside we can hear the dim sound of an approaching siren. Vincent turns a corner and - A GUN jams itself into his face. It's Edvard. 
EDVARD Where do I know you from? 
VINCENT Vienna. 
EDVARD Of course...I remember.  I quite liked you, I'm sorry to have to do this. 
Edvard's finger tightens around the trigger, when - 
SAM (O.S.) Hey... 
Edvard is startled by the sound of Sam's voice.  Even as he squeezes off the shot, Edvard turns to look at Sam, and as he does so, Vincent strikes out at the gun, sending the shot awry, causing it to - RICOCHET wildly, whining around the room, until it - Rips through Sam's side, a nasty wound but not fatal, as - Edvard tries to fire another shot but it's too late, because - Vincent fires a single shot to the head that kills Edvard. 
EXT. OUTSIDE THE THEATER - MEANWHILE 
Deirdre has reached the Citroen.  She looks in and sees Seamus and Gregor.  Lastly she looks at the dead Larry.  She sighs in disgust, but otherwise doesn't react as if surprised. 
DEIRDRE Cold cocking the poor son-of-a-bitch would have sufficed, Seamus, don't you think? 
SCANT SECOND LATER - 
Larry's body hits the street as the Citroen drives off, Deirdre behind the wheel just as - Sam and Vincent run out of the theater, with Vincent helping a wounded Sam who bleeds from the wound in his side.  They arrive at the street only to see - Larry, lying dead in the street, even as the Citroen speeds away from them, turning the corner before they can even think to raise their guns. 
VINCENT That double-crossing bitch. 
Sam isn't even capable of saying that much -- he just stares after the departed Citroen with a look on his face unlike any we've seen in the film: "how the hell did that happen?"  But there's no time to ponder this because they've been joined by - A COP.  He's a local guy, he directs traffic and busts drunks in the town square -- and he's scared shitless, holding his gun in both hands, trying not to tremble, as he stares back at - TWO GUNS, Sam's and Vincent's, and they're both pointed at the Cop.  LONG BEAT.  In the way off distance, another siren can just be heard.  Sam and Vincent glare at the Cop, who strains with all his might to control himself, but he can't because Sam and Vincent are death waiting to be served.  The cop knows he has three seconds to make up his mind.  Two.  One.  The Cop puts his gun on the ground and steps back, raising his hands in the air.  Now - Sam and Vincent stumble into the street, and are instantly almost hit by - A CAR speeding around the corner, its Driver oblivious to what's going on.  The car screeches to a halt, and the Driver curses loudly in French.  And then the next thing the Driver knows - A Gun is in his face.  The door is yanked open and the Driver is yanked out, as we - 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A BACK ROAD - LATER/EARLY EVENING 
The town of Orange is just visible below us as the commandeered Car drives up into the hills.  Vincent is behind the wheel, while the wounded Sam sits in the passenger seat. Gritting his teeth, Sam peels back his shirt to get a look at - THE WOUND, and it's small but bad -- the ricochet ripped a small raw hole in Sam's side.  The wound bleeds, but moderately so -- no major organs or arteries have been hit. 
DEIRDRE I guess you don't know me, then, if you think I won't kill you for an insult like that! 
Seamus glares at Deirdre for a moment, and she glares back at him until he starts to laugh. 
SEAMUS Just testing, lass.  Forgive me, but I had to do it. 
Deirdre glares a moment more and then puts away her gun. 
DEIRDRE Remember what we agreed on, Seamus: when we get home, I don't play "the girl" again. 
Deirdre gives Seamus a look to make sure this last point is clear and we - 
CUT TO: 
EXT. A FARMHOUSE - THE COUNTRY - NIGHT 
The Stolen Car parks behind a BARN, and Sam and Vincent get out.  Waiting for them is a friend of Vincent's - JEAN- PIERRE, a Frenchman in his forties, hearty, burly, friendly. 
VINCENT Hello, Jean-Pierre. 
JEAN-PIERRE Hello, my friend. (with a look at Sam) He doesn't look French to me, Vincent. 
SAM American. 
JEAN-PIERRE Well, Vincent's American friend, shall we see what we can do for you? 
INT. THE FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - LATER/NIGHT 
SURGICAL IMPLEMENTS - Are laid out on a clean cloth. Scalpel, forceps, a clamp, a sponge, medical thread and needles.  We PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Sam, stretched out on the kitchen table.  Around him we see - Vincent and Jean-Pierre, who are wearing rubber gloves and examining Sam's wound. Jean-Pierre holds a mirror up so that Sam can see what's going on.  Sam, with his medical training, is treating himself. 
VINCENT (to Sam) It's right there, beneath the surface.  I can just make it out. 
Sam is in terrible pain, but necessity dictates that he focus on what's going on so that he can talk Vincent through this next procedure. 
JEAN-PIERRE Are you sure you won't have a drink? 
SAM (sharply) No booze...Pain's in the mind, and the mind I can control. (quick beat) Alright, let's do it. 
During this next sequence, we CUT BACK AND FORTH between Sam's reactions to the surgery, and the mirror itself where he's watching. 
SAM Douse the wound with alcohol. 
Vincent pours a healthy splash of rubbing alcohol onto the wound and - Sam grits his teeth as the pain explodes up his central nervous system. 
SAM (to Jean-Pierre) Take that sponge and wipe away as much of the blood as you can, keep it clean so I can see. 
Jean-Pierre does as Sam says, wiping away the blood that keeps filling the wound.  Throughout the procedure Jean- Pierre will do this; every time the sponge is saturated he squeezes the excess blood into - A BUCKET which sits on the floor, slowly filling up with drippings from the sponge. 
SAM (to Vincent) Take the clamp... 
Vincent picks up the clamp. 
SAM Peel back the skin and attach the clamp. 
Vincent attaches the clamp to Sam's wound.  It takes perhaps fifteen seconds, and everyone of those seconds is agonizing for Sam.  He sweats, he grits his teeth, he grunts the smallest of grunts.  But he doesn't move.  Finally Vincent is done. 
VINCENT Alright, it's done. 
SAM You see the bullet? 
VINCENT Clearly. 
SAM Good.  Now take the forceps, and remember, Vincent, what we're doing here is routine.  I've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field.  There are no vital organs where you're working, no major muscles or arteries -- you can't kill me.  Just make sure you've got the bullet before you try to pull it out. 
Vincent probes the wound with the forceps.  This takes probably thirty seconds, and it hurts even more then when the clamp was attached. 
Several times - Vincent seems to have the bullet in his grasp, but it slips, and each time it slips - Sam makes the smallest of noises, as if to indicate the level of the pain. Finally - The forceps firmly grasp the bullet, and with a single tug, Vincent extracts it. 
JEAN-PIERRE Forgive my intrusion into your affairs, but I am the one who connected Vincent to this job, his agent, if you will.  He is one of my oldest friends and I owe him a great debt, much like the debt I suspect he owes you. 
A QUICK CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE FARMHOUSE 
Where Vincent has just poured himself a cup of coffee and lit a very satisfying cigarette when he hears the voices from outside. 
SAM (O.S.) Vincent doesn't owe me a thing. 
Vincent looks up when he hears his name and he moves towards the sound of the voices. 
JEAN-PIERRE (O.S.) He sees this differently, as you well know. 
SAM (O.S.) I didn't expect that he would. 
BACK ON THE PORCH - 
JEAN-PIERRE You suffered through an agonizing pain last night, pain you could have avoided by declaring yourself an agent of the law. 
SAM Vincent told you that I'm a cop? 
JEAN-PIERRE Not a word.  But no ordinary criminal would have the extensive military and medical expertise you do.  And so I place the pieces of the puzzle together in a way that makes sense to me.  You work for some government agency and you carry a gun, and in my world, that makes you a cop. 
And now Jean-Pierre produces a LONG BARRELED REVOLVER which he places loosely in his lap -- a gesture which seems to say, "you'd better explain things to my satifaction or we're gonna have a problem."  Sam notices the weapon, but he doesn't react overtly. 
SAM So this is what, a test? 
JEAN-PIERRE Call it a reckoning of character. 
BEAT.  Sam looks at the Revolver again. 
SAM If I was healthy, I could take that away from you. 
JEAN-PIERRE Perhaps.  But you are not healthy, and if you try I'll kill you. 
QUICK CUT TO: Vincent - Who stands inside the house, out of sight, but not out of ear shot.  He's listening to everything, and we notice that Vincent has taken out his own gun. 
BACK ON Jean-Pierre and Sam.  By now Jean-Pierre has raised the pistol.  He doesn't point it at Sam, but his finger cocks the hammer. 
SAM So what is it you want to know? 
JEAN-PIERRE I suppose I want to know how a man like you is created. 
SAM Created? 
JEAN-PIERRE Perhaps forged is a better word.  Like steel.  Like a sword.  You're a modern Samurai.  I've spent my life around extraordinary men -- men like Vincent. But I've never seen anyone like you. (beat) I'm afraid Vincent will die if he goes with you. 
SAM Vincent's life is his own burden; he'll have to carry it for himself.  And I'm not any kind of Samurai. 
JEAN-PIERRE You seem one to me. 
SAM A Samurai has honor, a Samurai live by the code of Bushido, the way of the warrior.  I'm just a killer for hire. (beat) The world isn't about honor, anymore. It's about survival. 
LONG BEAT.  Something in Sam's speech touches Jean-Pierre. He relaxes his finger on the hammer. 
JEAN-PIERRE Survival.  I suppose that's as good a cause as any. 
BACK ON Vincent - Who relaxes his grip on his gun. BACK ON Sam and Jean-Pierre - And we're PULLING BACK, AWAY from the Farmhouse, which glows in the morning sun as we - 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. A PARIS STREET - DAY 
A BLACK COMPACT CAR sits in front of a Parisian Post Office. Inside the car, behind the wheel, we see Deirdre.  Now, coming out of the Post Office, we see - Gregor and Seamus Reilly.  Seamus has a coat slung over his arm, hiding the gun which he keeps pressed to Gregor's side.  There's no sign of the Briefcase as Seamus and Gregor get into - 
INT. THE CAR - SAM TIME 
VINCENT I know.  Jean-Pierre did. 
SAM You were behind the door? 
VINCENT I was waiting to see what would happen. I didn't want to kill him if I didn't have to. 
SAM You would have done that? 
VINCENT I would have tried not to.  But yes, if it would have kept him from shooting you, I would have. 
SAM (almost to himself) How could you have done that? 
VINCENT Because I owe you. (he sees something) Look at that... 
THEIR POV: Through the Windsheild - Deirdre exits the apartment building. 
SAM (O.S.) (quietly exultant) All things come to those who wait. 
Now Deirdre is followed by Seamus and Gregor. 
VINCENT (O.S.) (really surprised by this) He's not dead. 
BACK ON Sam and Vincent. 
SAM (figuring it out) They don't have the package. 
VINCENT You think? 
SAM You said it yourself: Gregor's not dead. If they had the package, they'd have killed him. 
Vincent and Sam exchange a look -- now they both figure it out. 
VINCENT & SAM (simultaneously) They're going to get it. 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE POST OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON 
A HAND signs a receipt, and we PULL BACK TO REVEAL Gregor at a counter, signing for his package, which slides across the counter.  It's the Briefcase, although it's been wrapped in BROWN PAPER for its journey through the French Postal System. Now we see that - Seamus is still right beside Gregor; is, in face, almost on top of him, with a hand in his coat pocket which lets us know where his gun is.  Now - The two men start to move towards the exit as we - 
CUT TO: 
EXT. THE STREET OUTSIDE - A MINUTE LATER/LATE AFTERNOON 
The Black Compact Car idles at a nearby curb, with Deirdre behind the wheel.  She's staring so intently at the front of the post office, that she's surprised when a SHADOW falls across her.  She looks up to see - Sam, standing next to the car.  Deirdre starts to reach for her weapon, but Sam cuts her off with a word. 
SAM Don't do it... 
Something in his voice conveys enough of a threat that she backs off.  Now she and Sam exchange a long look. 
DEIRDRE Well, if it isn't Mr. Interpol himself. (she really sounds betrayed) I can't believe I misjudged you like I did. 
SAM Oh please..you're on some sort of holy mission? 
DEIRDRE I'm a patriate. 
SAM Don't even think that I'm buying that. 
DEIRDRE Where do you get off saying word one? All the time pretending to be one of us, it's the same thing we were doing, Seamus and myself.  And here you are so high and mighty, like you're so different from the rest of us. 
SAM I didn't say I was. 
DEIRDRE (she sees something) Bloody fucking hell... 
CUT AWAY TO: Gregor and Seamus are leaving the post office. By now, Seamus has taken the package away from Gregor. Unseen by these two men - Vincent is approaching from the side, on an intercept course, his hand inside a bag which he carries with him.  Now - Deirdre turns and shoots Sam a look. He's still watching her keenly, and we can see that she's aching to reach for her piece, but she can't because Sam is still on her like a hawk. 
SAM Don't even think it. 
IN THE COMPACT - 
SEAMUS (lecturing Deridre) You should have kill him when you had the chance.  But no... 
IN THE PEUGEOT - 
VINCENT You put everything on the line because you... 
IN THE COMPACT 
SEAMUS (as if finishing Vincent's sentence) You slept with the fucker!! 
ON THE PERIFERIQUE - 
THE PEUGEOT cruising on an upper part of the traffic circle, while down below them - THE COMPACT turns towards one of the roadways. 
VINCENT (O.S.) Fuck... 
IN THE PEUGEOT - 
VINCENT Left left left!!! 
Sam looks up and sees - Three possible ramps: one to the right, one to the center, and one to the - Left.  At the last second he takes the left turn as we go back to - 
IN THE COMPACT CAR - 
Where Seamus has turned from lecturing Deirdre to threatening Gregor.  Seamus holds the package in one hand and his gun in the other. 
SEAMUS (waving the package) This better be the real thing or you're a dead man! 
GREGOR It is, I'm telling you it is!! 
SEAMUS You've told me a lot of things, boyo... 
ZING-SHATTER!  A BULLET blows a hole in their back windshield as - The Peugeot is catching up, and Vincent is leaning out of his window, firing away.  Now - Seamus turns to Deirdre. 
SEAMUS Lose them! 
DEIRDRE You lose them! 
Deirdre swings the wheel wildly, and the Compact takes a screaming turn, followed by - The Peugeot, and now they're both speeding towards another junction, where several other roadways of the Periferique run together.  Now we see that - Seamus is returning Vincent's fire, even as - The Junction approaches, and now - Seamus screams at Deirdre. 
SEAMUS To the right!!! 
Deirdre swerves to the right only to discover that she's now on an - 
EXIT RAMP, going against heavy traffic.  Now - 
Deirdre swerves her car around, side-swiping several cars, but avoiding a major crash while - The Peugeot follows along, and now - 
One of the cars that Deirdre side-swiped careens wildly down the ramp, crashing into - The Peugeot, which grinds to a halt as Vincent and Sam bounce forward in their seats, restrained by their seatbelts.  The car has stalled, and Sam has to start her up again and slam it into gear before following after - The Compact, which now has a lead of perhaps fifty yards -- but at least it's possible for the Peugeot to follow after the Compact, because it's the only car on the highway ahead of them that's GOING THE WRONG WAY, and now we - PULL BACK, LOOKING DOWN FROM ABOVE, and the two cars are flying through the rush-hour traffic, going the wrong way, and now - The Peugeot is gaining ground as Sam turns to Vincent. 
SAM Give me a cigarette. 
VINCENT Right now? 
SAM Gimme a goddamn cigarette!!!! 
VINCENT (fumbling with a cigarette) Why are you driving? (rapid fire) You're not French, you don't live here, you don't know these roads.  Why are you driving? 
He puts the cigarette in Sam's mouth and as he does - The Peugeot weaves in and out of the traffic, gaining ground on the Compact, and now - SCREEEEECCHHH!!!!  About fifteen cars pile up, crashing into one another, and yet somehow - The Compact Car emerges from the pile up unscathed, and Seamus breathes a hugh sigh of relief. 
SEAMUS About time! 
DEIRDRE (glancing in her mirror) Not yet... 
The Peugeot has also managed to avoid the pile-up, and it's back on their tail. 
GREGOR (suddenly sharp) Enough! 
Gregor raises the Briefcase which is still attached to his wrist via the handcuff.  Gregor rests the Briefcase on the table. 
MIKHI Ahh... 
The moment of truth.  Before this scene can develop any further, a VOICE comes from Off Screen, and as the Voice speaks, Gregor blanches. 
SEAMUS (O.S.) The moment of truth, is it? 
ANOTHER ANGLE - Deirdre and Seamus have entered the room. And we notice something unusual: nobody is alarmed (except for Gregor, that is).  It's as if they were expected. 
GREGOR What is he doing here? 
As Seamus speaks he walks through the room, examining the valuable china and crystal, all the while moving inexorably closer to Gregor.  His face is, if anything, even more horrific than it was a short while ago, as his formerly fresh wounds have started to scab over. 
SEAMUS What am I doing here?  Why, I'm here to see my partners, Gregor, the boys in the Russian Mafia.  See, your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross.  But they only just found out that what's in the briefcase is completely useless without me.  I can't fight them, and they can't kill me -- that means we're gonna have to do business together. 
GREGOR But you hate each other! 
SEAMUS What's a little hate between business partners? 
EXT. THE WOODS - MEANWHILE 
Vincent's CIGARETTE is stubbed into a rock and the two men rise with a slow purpose.  They exchange a look and then Sam steps forward, leading the way 
SAM I'm on point, Vincent. 
A WIDE ANGLE - THE BACK LAWN OF THE CHATEAU - 
Pure Kurosawa.  The JAPANESE DRUM we've heard before starts to play again as - 
THE LONG SHADOWS of Sam and Vincent come out of the woods and into the brilliant light of the back lawn.  For one minute they stand still, and among the many weapons that Sam carries is a long automatic rifle, strung over his back, and in the SILHOUETTE for one minute it looks like a Samurai sword.  Now the two men start to move across the lawn, hugging the shadows of the various statues and hedges, trying to keep from being discovered for as long as possible. 
BACK IN THE DINING ROOM - 
GREGOR (to Seamus) So, you've got it all figured, do you? 
SEAMUS Figured enough to know there's an odd man out and I'm looking at him. 
GREGOR I think not. (holds up the Briefcase) I have, of course, taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens.  Unless, of course, I deactivate it before it goes off. 
DEIRDRE (under her breath) That fucking figures... 
GREGOR Should any of you decide to rush me, I'll kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time. 
MIKHI And more importantly -- 
GREGOR I'll destroy whatever's in the case. 
BEAT.  Nobody moves.  Nobody speaks.  Until finally - 
SEAMUS It looks, Gentlemen, as if we're gonna have to sit down to table and work out an agreement. 
Before this entirely too-weird scenario can play itself we go back to - 
THE BACK LAWN OF THE CHATEAU - 
Sam and Vincent are closer to the Chateau, moving in stealth, avoiding any entanglements and then Sam turns a corner and comes face to face with - A GUARD, and his gun is aimed at Sam's head: Sam's a dead man as we go - 
BACK TO THE DINING ROOM 
AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE splits the night, and everyone in the room looks at one another, before Mikhi speaks. 
MIKHI What was that? 
BACK OUTSIDE THE CHATEAU - 
GREGOR (a feral hiss) We'll die if we stay here! 
MIKHI (threatening with the gun) You'll die if you leave here. 
Gregor sits back down, fairly close to Mikhi.  Then, in a manner so deft that Mikhi never even notices, Gregor extracts a wickedly thin stiletto blade from the leather lining of the Briefcase.  Before Mikhi can even react, Gregor stabs his arm forward in a savage arc - JAMMING THE BLADE into Mikhi's throat.  Mikhi drops his gun and reaches for the blade, already gagging on the blood spray which shoots from the slashed artery.  Within seconds - Mikhi falls to the ground, jerking viciously in his death throes as - Gregor picks up the pistol and runs to leave the room, and as he does we move to - 
THE GALLERY - 
Filled with Paintings and Sculptures, nothing less than 200 years old.  This place is a maze, what with it's walls of paintings that jut out here and there, the various corridors which lead from room to room, and the sculptures which block sight lines.  Now we find - Vincent, pressed against a wall, a gun in each hand, while - FIVE RUSSIAN MAFIA GUYS are hunting him down.  We do a SERIES OF QUICK CUTS as the Five Guys split up and look for Vincent, all the while speaking in low Russian voices.  Suddenly one of the Guys turns a corner and sees - Nothing.  No Vincent.  Now he turns back and - A FIST CRASHES through a painting which hangs on a makeshift wall.  It's Vincent.  His hand wraps around Mafia Guy's neck, pinning him in place.  Seconds later - Two quick shots rip through the painting, hitting Mafia Guy in the head.  Now - The other men are alerted by the shots, they come running and - Vincent steps out firing - 
And now it's a bullet-fest, as he gets the drop on them, using the maze of the Gallery to his fullest advantage, gunning them down - First one - Then two - Three, and then - No four.  Vincent turns, surprised that his man wasn't where he expected him to be when - A SHOT RINGS OUT, hitting Vincent, a flesh wound that disarms him.  The Last Guy has the drop on Vincent.  Now - The Last Guy smiles a nasty little smile at Vincent and - A PISTOL spits fire and - A BULLET bursts out of the Last Guy's chest.  It's Sam.  Now Sam and Vincent exchange a look: Sam has, once again, saved Vincent's life. 
VINCENT You have to stop doing that! 
SAM I'll work on it... 
The two men don't have time for any more words, they move from the Gallery and find themselves in - 
THE DINING ROOM - 
Where they find nothing but the bloody remains of Mikhi the Gangster.  Sam and Vincent are surveying the room when a VOICE comes from BEHIND them - 
SEAMUS (O.S.) Turn around real slow, and try hard not to breathe when you do it. 
ANOTHER ANGLE - Seamus Reilly has come in behind them, and he's got his gun pointed straight at Sam's heart.  If Seamus is enraged at discovering Gregor's absence, he's overjoyed to find Sam in his place. 
SEAMUS It's you... (touches his face) You're the one did this to my face, are you? 
SAM That's me. 
SEAMUS Have a nice afterlife. 
Seamus pulls the trigger and his BULLET spins out towards Sam, ready to blow a hole through him except that - Vincent leaps forward and takes the bullet -- it rips into his side, a huge splash of red against his white shirt.  He falls to the ground, horribly wounded, but he's given Sam enough time, and now - Sam and Seamus open fire on one another - BULLETS RIPPING into the table, chewing up the china and crystal, taking glass shattering bites out of the CHANDELIER above the table, turning the Dining Room from a primo Louis XIV showpiece into shit as the two men move about and then suddenly - They're face to face, each with a gun to the other - Mexican Standoff.  Suddenly, from Off Screen - 
DEIRDRE (O.S.) Seamus! 
ANOTHER ANGLE - Deirdre has appeared, her gun leveled at the two men. 
SEAMUS Deirdre, do for him, woman, put a fucking bullet in his head! 
Deirdre hesitates, uncertain. 
SEAMUS Do it, for Christ's sake, do it so we can find that stinking Gregor, he's got the bloody package!  For God's sake, you're a soldier... 
These last words sink into Deirdre: she is a soldier.  Her gun swivels towards Sam. 
SEAMUS (sensing he's getting to her) You're one of us...You been born and bred with your own people, you can't go against your nature.  C'mon, girl, I'm you're people. 
Deirdre makes up her mind. 
DEIRDRE I'm no girl, Seamus... 
She fires a shot - Blowing Seamus off his feet and through a huge PLATE GLASS WINDOW. 
DEIRDRE And you ain't nobody's people. 
She moves with Sam to Vincent, who is seriously wounded -- perhaps life-threateningly so. 
SAM (to Deirdre) Let's get him out of here... 
VINCENT Finish the job... 
SAM And now... 
VINCENT (a commanding whisper) Finish it! 
Sam considers, but before he can make up his mind, Deirdre sees something through the wreck of the Dining Room Window - 
Sam reaches into his coat, and for a moment everybody thinks he's going for his gun, but instead he comes out with - A PIECE OF PAPER.  He hands it to the Detective. 
SAM Call that number and ask them what you should do. 
The Detective eyeballs the number suspiciously. 
FIVE MINUTES LATER - 
The Detective hangs up a nearby wall phone and then looks over at Sam in disgust.  Without another word, the Detective signals to the two Gendarmes, and all three men exit.  Now - 
The DOCTOR, a beautiful French Woman, comes up and speaks to him in FRENCH -- and the amazing thing is that Sam speaks back.  Everything in SUBTITLED. 
DOCTOR You can see your friend, now. 
SAM Thank you very much. 
DOCTOR The field dressing you put on saved his life. (giving him a look) Where di you learn to do that? 
SAM Here and there, I guess. 
The Doctor isn't entirely satisfied with this answer, but it's the only one she's going to get, because Sam moves past into - 
INT. VINCENT'S ROOM 
He's barely alive -- but alive nonetheless.  And he's heard Sam speak in French to the Doctor. 
VINCENT You son-of-a-bitch... 
SAM What? 
VINCENT You speak French. 
SAM What of it? 
VINCENT (in mock exasperation) Nothing... 
He lies back on his pillow, pissed and yet amused. 
VINCENT (repeating the Doctor's words in English) "Your field dressing saved his life." That's three I owe you. 
SAM You don't owe me a goddamned thing, Vincent, and you know it.  You stepped in front of a bullet for me. (very seriously, he now believes this) I owe you a heavy debt. 
VINCENT (relishing this) I know. 
SAM (rising to leave) You better get some sleep, alright? 
VINCENT Tell me something first. (a quick beat) The package: what was it? 
SAM I don't know.  Nobody knows, except a bunch of people who are too dead to tell us.  There's probably a couple of guys back at the Company who know, but I don't think they plan to tell me anytime soon. 
VINCENT What happened to it? 
SAM Gone.  Destroyed. 
VINCENT (sighs, then a beat) I guess that's for the best. 
Sam turns for the door but Vincent has one last thing to say. 
VINCENT Sam, when Gregor had Deirdre by the lake, you could have killed the two of them with one shot.  You could have had the package, finished the job.  But you didn't, you sacrificed the job to save her life.  Why? 
Same has to think about this for a second, and his answer reveals just how full circle he's come. 
SAM It's what you would have done. 
And on that note Sam exits the room, leaving a bemused Vincent behind. 
EXT. THE BANK OF THE RIVER SEINE - EARLY MORNING 
