ROUGHSHOD 
Written by 
Hugo Butler & Geoffrey Homes 
Story by 
Peter Viertel 
EXT. DESERT - DAWN 
FULL SHOT. The sun, spinning up from behind the dark rim of eastern hills, is bleaching the cloudless, morning sky. This is volcanic country, barren, desolate, forbidding. There is no sign of life, no sound. Then on a distant hill, a man appears, to be followed by two others. They walk steadily forward. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. NARROW CANYON - DAWN 
MED. SHOT. A dry watercourse threads its way through the cut in the treeless hills. The sun is not high enough as yet to drive night from the canyon. A man appears around a bend; another and still another. They are McCall, Peters and Lednov, clad in prison clothes, hatless, their heads closely cropped. As Lednov's face comes into a closeup, 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. HILL - DAWN 
LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. A narrow valley lies below. Through it runs a cottonwood-bordered stream. Smoke curls up out of the trees. Horses graze in a small meadow near the creek. From O.O. comes the SOUND of heavy boots crunching across the dry, eroded earth. The three men file past camera to stop in the immediate F.g. and look down into the valley. They exchange glances and start down. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAWN 
MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH willows. A bearded man, Cal Forster, and two young fellows in their late teens squat beside a campfire eating breakfast. O.s. there is the SOUND of movement. Lednov moves cautiously into the scene. He has a revolver in his hand. 
Forster turns toward camera and fear comes into his expression. Lednov fires. Forster crumples near the fire. The two boys jump to their feet and reach for rifles. Lednov fires again and again. McCall and Peters come into the scene, both firing revolvers. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAWN 
MED SHOT - ANGLED ACROSS campfire. On the fire smoulders the prison clothes the convicts had worn. Smoke spirals up. In the B.B. Lednov, Peters and McCall, now wearing the clothes of the three Forsters, saddle the horses. CAMERA PANS AROUND and ANGLES DOWN. The bodies of Forster and his sons, now clad in underwear are sprawled by the fire. Forster's arm lies close to the smouldering clothing. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. CREEK - DAWN 
MED. LONG SHOT. Smoke climbs above the trees. Into the clearing ride the three convicts, to cross it and move westward. They disappear over the hill. A dust cloud marks their passage. CAMERA HOLDS ON the scene and over the shot comes the MAIN TITLE CARD: 
ROUGHSHOD 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
LONG SHOT. A buckboard drawn by two horses comes along the road. Graham, a middle-aged rancher, is driving. As the horses trot forward and dust rises above the road, the NEXT TITLE CARD is shown. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. CREEK - DAY 
LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. Graham's buckboard moves down the road toward the clearing, as the TITLE CARDS follow and change. When the buckboard reaches the creek, the LAST TITLE CARD is ended. 
EXT. MEADOW - DAY 
MED. SHOT. Graham drives the horses through the creek and into the meadow. Through the trees the Forster camp can be seen. Graham glances over, then suddenly pulls on the reins. As the horses stop, he twists the reins around the whip stock, grabs his rifle from under the seat, leaps out and hurries forward toward the camp. 
EXT. FORSTER CAMP - DAY 
MED. SHOT. Graham hurries through the trees to stop in horror near the dead men. Then very slowly he moves forward to the smouldering fire. Stooping he lifts Forster's arm away from the fire, then picks up one of the prison coats and looks at it. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
MED. LONG SHOT. The surrounding hills are covered with scrub pinon pine and mesquite. Graham's buckboard, moving slowly up a hill, passes camera, which PANS WITH it. In the bed, covered by a tarp, are the three bodies. The narrow, one-way road climbs easily up the gentle hill. Beyond, a dust cloud rises. As Graham's buckboard nears the crest, a surrey appears and starts down. Graham pulls his team into the bank, trying to make room for the surrey. 
MED. SHOT 
There are four women in the two-seated surrey, which is heavily loaded with trunks, hatboxes, etc. Mary Wells, the loveliest of the four, is driving. She is more poised, more self-assured than the others. Her clothes, though a trifle showy, are attractive. She wears a large spectacular hat. Helen Carter, showier, harder and more cynical, sits beside her. In the seat behind are Marcia Paine, placid, younger looking than her years, and Elaine Ross, a striking blonde with a pale haunted face. Elaine is obviously ill. Mary is riding the brake and holding the team back. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING PAST Graham. 
GRAHAM (annoyed) What in thunderation -- (calling) Wait a minute -- stop -- 
He jerks on the reins and tries to make room for the surrey. A steep bank is on camera left. On camera right, the road drops off into a gulley. As the surrey comes up Mary reins the team in. The women all look frightened. Graham, trying to force his team to pull the vehicle up the bank, is too occupied to recognize the women at once. Having made just enough room for the surrey, he turns and looks at the women. 
GRAHAM All right -- (then surprised) What are you girls doin' way out here? 
Mary looks ahead at the narrow road and the canyon to her left. 
MARY Until you came along we were going to Sonora. 
GRAHAM What do you know about that. Did you sell your place? 
MARY (dryly) Not exactly. They decided gambling and dancing were bad for people. (pointing) Can I make it? 
GRAHAM Depends on how good you drive. 
HELEN She's a little out of practice. 
Graham jumps over the wheel. 
MED. CLOSE ON SURREY 
Graham reaches the surrey. 
SAM You want to get out of here before noon, maybe you should lend me a hand. 
Clay, the cigarette dangling from his lips, moves over to the table, picks up a hammer and helps Sam hammer the rim on the wheel. Steve stands watching. 
CLAY Rate you're goin', we'll be here until winter. 
Together they lift the wheel and plunge it into the tub of water. Steam rises to fill the blackened shed. 
SAM (amiably grumbling) Account of you, I miss out on the only excitement Aspen's had for months. 
CLAY You're too old to watch such goin's on. 
STEVE And I'm too young. 
Clay and Sam spin the wheel in the tub. 
CLAY That's right. 
STEVE I don't see no sense to makin' people leave town if they don't want to leave. 
SAM I don't either -- when people are that good-lookin'. Maybe that's why -- they were too good-lookin'. (philosophically) But there'll be others along to take their place after a while when this quiets down. And everything will be fine until some busybody starts stirring up trouble. 
CLAY (mildly) Don't you ever run down? 
SAM (to Steve) Some people just have to run other people's lives. Now take Clay. You want to amble up the street and see the fun and what does he say? 
CLAY (good-natured) You stick to your blacksmithin' and let me take care of Steve. 
From O.s. comes the SOUND of the approaching buckboard and crowd. Steve hears the noise and moves to the front of the shed. 
EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY 
MED. FULL SHOT - Steve's angle. Graham pulls his buckboard up, jumps out and hurries into the sheriff's office. Some kids run up to stand on the porch chattering excitedly. Members of the crowd straggle up. 
INT. BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY 
ANGLED PAST Steve. Clay comes up to stand beside Steve. Sam joins them. Steve looks up at Clay hopefully. 
CLAY We'll both take a look. Anything's better than listenin' to Sam. (to Sam) Don't forget to shoe the mule. 
Clay and Steve exit. Sam looks after them, shrugs disgustedly and goes back to the wheel. 
EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY 
MED. SHOT - featuring buckboard. The crowd around the wagon stands in shocked silence looking at the bodies under the tarp. Clay and steve come up, glance in the buckboard and then at each other. Clay speaks to a man near him. 
CLAY Who are they? 
MAN Don't know. Graham brought 'em in. 
The sheriff calls from O.s. 
GARDNER'S VOICE Clay, come up here a minute. 
ANOTHER ANGLE FEATURING PORCH 
Sheriff Gardner, who has seen Clay through the window, comes out of his office on to the porch followed by Jeb Graham and a young deputy. In his hand Gardner holds the burned prison jacket. Clay goes up the steps to the porch. Steve follows to the foot of the steps to stand watching. The crowd around the wagon gives its attention to the men on the porch. 
MED. SHOT 
Gardner is neatly dressed with his star hidden under his coat. His deputy wears jeans, shirt, and leather jacket. 
CLAY Hello Graham -- Joe -- Mr. Gardner. 
GARDNER Graham's got something to tell you might interest you. 
GRAHAM (motioning toward wagon) Cal Forster and his sons. Somebody killed 'em. 
He pauses to let that sink in. 
GRAHAM You know that cottonwood grove on Alder Crick? They must have been eatin' breakfast the way it looked, sittin' by the fire eatin' breakfast and when I got there nothin' but them lyin' dead in their underdrawers. No horses or guns or grub. 
CLAY (shocked) Forster never did anyone any harm. (puzzled) But what's that got to do with me? I came into town from the south. 
Gardner holds out the burned jacket. 
GARDNER This was smoulderin' on the fire. 
Clay moves over to glance down at the jacket. 
CLAY I still don't see. 
From his pocket, Gardner takes several communications, thumbs through them and passes one over. It is a telegram, of the period. 
GARDNER I got it day before yesterday. 
Clay reads it. 
INSERT TELEGRAM OF THE PERIOD: 
SHERIFF GARDNER: ASPEN, NEV. BE ADVISED OF ESCAPE OF LEDNOV, PETERS AND McCALL CONVICTED MURDERERS SERVING LIFE TERMS. BELIEVED HEADED FOR CALIFORNIA. 
L.B. GROVE, WARDEN STATE PENITENTIARY NORTON, NEV. 
BACK TO SCENE. Clay hands the telegram back. 
GARDNER Now are you interested? 
Clay nods. 
GARDNER You should be. Maybe Lednov heard about that Sonora ranch of yours. 
CLAY Maybe he did. 
MED. CLOSE - DOWN ANGLE 
CLAY Let's say this is the penitentiary. 
He reaches down into one of the barrels in front of the counter. The barrels are filled with beans, nails, dried apples, hardtack, etc. Clay takes a handful of beans and makes a trail ending in a little pile. 
CLAY Here's Alder Crick. 
He puts another box of shells on the other side of the counter. 
CLAY And here we are in Aspen. 
He runs a trail of beans away from "Aspen" toward the end of the counter. He runs another trail from "Alder Crick" to cross the Aspen trail. He puts another box of shells on the far end of the counter. 
CLAY That's Sonora. 
He reaches down without looking and brings up a hardtack. 
CLAY motioning) Lednov gets out of jail and comes along here to Alder Crick. Then goes along here toward the Sonora road. 
Clay drops the hardtack back from where the bean trails cross. 
CLAY That's Lednov! (tracing) We come along here. 
STEVE (pointing) And meet him there. 
CLAY Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up. 
He holds out his hand and Hayes hands him his change. 
CLAY So let's go. 
Steve tucks his gun under his arm. As he passes the counter, he picks up the hardtack and starts eating it. 
EXT. GENERAL STORE 
MED. SHOT - ANGLED TOWARD Sheriff's office. Up the street men are gathering around the sheriff's office. Some are mounted. Some are tightening their cinches. Clay and Steve come out of the store to look up the street. Steve munches the hardtack. 
STEVE (motioning) Sure a lot of guys lookin' for Lednov. 
CLAY Yeah -- and Lednov's only lookin' for one man. Me. 
STEVE Why? 
CLAY He doesn't like me. What you eatin'? 
STEVE Lednov. 
He glances at the remaining piece of hardtack and then pitches it away. 
STEVE I don't like him. 
Clay laughs. As they start up the street, the sheriff mounts his horse and, followed by his men, rides forward. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
CLOSE SHOT. A woman's hat lies on the rocky earth. It is a big, elaborate affair. O.s. there is the SOUND of hoofbeats, the SQUEAL of a wagon brake and the JANGLE of harness. CAMERA PULLS BACK and ANGLE WIDENS to reveal Clay's wagon coming down a very steep hill. Steve is driving, holding tightly to the reins and riding the brake. Seeing the hat, he yells to Clay. 
STEVE Another one, Clay. 
Clay rides over and, swinging down, picks it up. 
MED. SHOT 
ANGLED DOWN hill. The road twists tortuously down. Near the bottom it swings sharply at right angles into a dry wash. The banks shut out further view of the road. Near where the road turns a trunk lies at the side. It has broken open and some of the contents are spilled out in the dust. Clay rides to it, reins in his horse and looks down. Steve, with difficulty, pulls the mules to a stop alongside. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
featuring trunk and wagon. Clay swings out of his saddle, starts tossing the clothes back in the trunk. Steve jumps down. 
STEVE They sure must have been travelin'. This keeps up we can start a store. 
CLAY Things get tough next winter, you'll have somethin' to wear. 
Steve holds up a petticoat close to his body and grins. 
STEVE I'd look good doin' the ploughin' in this. 
Clay takes it from him, puts it in the trunk and shuts the lid. Steve helps him hoist the trunk into the wagon bed. Steve gets back in the seat. Just as Clay is about to mount, he stops and picks up a small folding daguerrotype case delicately ornamented. He lifts his eyebrow, tucks the case into his pocket, then mounts and starts ahead around the bend. 
MED. LONG SHOT 
Clay's ANGLE. Ahead, off the road in the wash is the surrey that passed Graham's buckboard at the fork. Clay spurs his horse forward. 
MED. SHOT 
on surrey. The back wheel is broken and the bed of the surrey rests on the ground. The horses have been taken from the traces and stand dejectedly in the hot sun. A blanket is spread in the scant shade thrown by the surrey. On it lies Elaine and, sitting beside her, is Marcia. A damp cloth is spread across Elaine's forehead. A water bag hangs from the surrey. Elaine's head is pillowed on a dainty satin cushion. Helen and Mary have risen at Clay's approach and now stand by the road. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Clay gallops forward to pull up near the surrey. In the b.g. Steve drives the wagon around the bend. Clay dismounts. 
MED. GROUP SHOT 
Clay drops his reins and hurries up. 
CLAY Anybody hurt? 
MARY No. We came down the hill a little fast and... (rueful) ...the wheel broke. (hopefully) Can you fix it for us? 
Clay bends over Elaine. 
CLAY What's the matter with her? 
MARY (dryly) Too much excitement. Or maybe it's just the heat. How about the surrey. Can you fix it? 
As Clay turns from Elaine, Marcia joins the other two, their attention on Clay and the surrey. Left alone, Elaine is suddenly alert and no longer sick. She glances around, then unobserved slides out from under the shade of the surrey. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
on rear of surrey. In the B.g. Steve pulls the wagon to a stop, jumps off, and comes running over. Elaine stands for a moment, searching the ground with her eyes. 
STEVE Jiminy. You sure were lucky, just bustin' a wheel. 
Helen moves toward Clay. She smiles without humor. With this new diversion, Elaine, still unnoticed, starts away -- back toward where they dropped the trunk. 
HELEN (rubbing thigh) You think that's all we busted -- You should see... 
MARY (sees Elaine) Now where's she goin'? -- 
ELAINE (half-turns without stopping) I -- lost something. 
CLAY It wouldn't happen to be this... 
Elaine stops now and turns as Clay takes the folding daguerrotype case from his pocket. Elaine, her eyes wide and frightened, starts back as Mary takes the case from Clay and opens it. 
MARY Who's the old folks? 
ELAINE (frantic) Give it to me! 
She jerks the case from Mary's hands, snaps it shut, and stands staring at Mary with a strange mixture of fright, anger and hysteria. Mary glances around as if to say what- did-I-do? To cover the embarrassed silence, Clay kicks the unbroken back wheel. The spokes rattle. 
CLAY This must have been in the family a long time. 
Elaine glances at him as though he had insulted her, turns and starts toward the blanket again. 
MARY (dryly) It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells. 
She looks at him to see if the name registers. At the surrey side, Elaine is abruptly weak again. She leans against it for support. Mareia moves to her as she slides back down on the blanket, clutching the case. 
MARY And this is Helen Carter. 
CLAY I'm Clay Phillips. (motioning) My brother Steve. 
Steve tugs at his battered hat. 
STEVE (shy) Pleased to meet you, ma'am. (brightly) We found your trunk. Were you doin' the drivin'? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Mary and Helen come around the end of the surrey to where Elaine lies. Mary bends beside the sick girl and lifts the cloth from the girl's forehead. 
MARY Come on, Honeybunch. We're changing trains. 
The sick girl sits up. She looks around her dully. 
MARY A nice, kind wrangler is letting us ride in his wagon... 
Assisted by Mary, Elaine gets to her feet. Mary puts her arm around her. 
MARY ...as far as the first ranch. From then on -- 
Elaine stops. She looks fearfully up at Helen. 
ELAINE What ranch? 
MARY What's the difference? 
She tries to lead the girl toward the wagon. 
ELAINE (fierce) Ask him what ranch -- 
MARY There's plenty of time for that. (sharp) Come on, now. You've got to lie down out of this sun. Stop worrying. I'll find out what ranch after a while. 
She pulls the girl with her toward the wagon. 
MED. SHOT 
on wagon. Clay, in the wagon bed, is stowing his gear in the back. Mary, supporting Elaine, reaches the wagon. Seeing the girls, Clay reaches down and gently lifts Elaine up. Mary climbs in beside him. 
MED. CLOSE 
wagon bed. Clay has unrolled a bedroll under the seat where there is a little shade. 
CLAY (kind) Stretch out under the seat, Miss. 
ELAINE (desperate) Which ranch? 
CLAY How's that? 
MARY She's worried about where you're taking us. 
As she speaks, Mary helps the girl down under the seat, then rises to face Clay. 
MARY (dryly) So am I. 
CLAY It's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Elaine as she hears the name. She is shocked. 
CLAY'S VOICE They'll take you in until you can make other arrangements. 
TWO SHOT 
CLAY Get your rifle. 
Steve jumps up and hurries to the wagon. Clay continues kicking dirt over the fire. 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT) 
LONG SHOT - ANGLES PAST horseman. The horseman, who has been approaching from the east, tops a rise and looks off at the camp. He is a shadowy figure in the palo dark. For a moment, as the fire still blazes, figures are visible in the camp. Then the fire goes out. The horseman dismounts, pulling his rifle from his scabbard. Moving to his horse's head he puts a hand on the animal's nostrils. He looks toward the camp for a moment then starts cautiously along the road. 
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT) 
MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH willows PAST Clay and Steve. The brothers have taken up a post overlooking the road. The horseman walks cautiously toward them. He stops, listening. Then he drops his reins and comes forward stealthily. The horse stands. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
Clay and Steve. Steve, finger on trigger gives Clay a questioning glance. Clay shakes his head. 
CLAY (calling) Hold it. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
on road. The man, now seen clearly for the first time, stops. He is Jim Clayton, a man in his twenties, chunky, round-faced, stolid and not too imaginative. He wears the well-worn jeans and blue shirt of the farmer. Clay and Steve come out of the willows toward him. Both have their rifles ready. 
CLAY Drop your gun. 
Clayton hesitates, then lets his rifle butt drop to the road. 
CLAYTON (mildly) Drop yours. I'm gunshy. 
CLAY Then don't come sneakin' around a man's camp. 
CLAYTON A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he don't take chances. My name's Clayton and I'm looking for someone. 
Clay and Steve lower their rifles. 
CLAYTON I found their surrey -- 
CLAY So did I. They were in it. 
CLAYTON She's a friend -- took off this morning sort of sudden while I wasn't around. 
Clay moves closer and extends his hand. They shake. 
CLAY (very cordial) I'm glad you came along. (introducing) My brother, Steve. I'm Phillips. 
Steve shakes Jim's hand. 
CLAY I gave the girls a lift. Didn't know what else to do with them. Get your horse and come on. 
Clayton turns back toward his horse. Clay and Steve wait for him. 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT) 
MED. SHOT - ANGLED BACK ALONG the trail. Mary and Helen, tense and worried, stand at the edge of the camp, looking off. Marcia is with Elaine under the wagon. From o.s. comes the SOUND of men's voices. Clay, Steve and Clayton, leading his horse, come into view. 
CLOSE SHOT ON WAGON 
Marcia kneeling on the tarp by Elaine, is staring ahead. Suddenly her face lights up. She springs to her feet. 
MARCIA'S ANGLE 
Clay, Steve and Jim are now close to Mary. 
CLAY (genial) Here's a man says he's looking for you girls. 
CLAYTON Hello, Miss Wells. 
Hearing his voice, Marcia runs toward them. 
GROUP SHOT 
Marcia throws herself into Jim's arms. 
MARCIA Jim. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clayton kisses her. 
CLAYTON I was roundin' up some stock. That's why I didn't come sooner. 
Marcia hugs him. In the B.g. Clay goes over to the fire, kicks the dirt off the embers and piles on wood. The fire flares up. 
CLAYTON What do you mean running off without a word. 
TWO SHOT 
Mary and Helen. 
MARCIA'S VOICE I didn't know who to tell, it all happened so sudden, those people comin' and throwin' us out on the street. 
JIM'S VOICE Don't you think about it, darlin'. Don't you think about anythin' but us. 
HELEN (quietly) Looks like we lose a good piano player. 
CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS as Marcia and Jim come forward. The fire now burns briskly. Clay rejoins the group. 
MARCIA (happily) Jim came after me, Mary. 
MARY (dryly) I see he did. 
HELEN With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other. 
MARY (sharp) Why didn't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen. I told the man in Sonora there were four of us. If only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. We've got to stick together. Like we've always done. 
STEVE Since I can remember, Ma'am. 
MARY But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling? 
CLOSE SHOT 
Clay. He listens, perturbed. 
MED. SHOT 
Mary and Steve. 
STEVE It wasn't Clay's fault. We've been moving around most all the time -- mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then -- 
MARY Don't you even know your letters? 
CLOSE SHOT 
Clay. He winces at! 
STEVE'S VOICE No, Ma'am. 
MED. SHOT 
Mary, Steve and Clay. Behind them, Clay rises and comes down nearer the fire. 
MARY Would you like to learn them? 
STEVE I sure would. 
MARY Maybe I could start you out. 
STEVE That'd be swell. (shyly) You know, you're an awful lot different than I thought you'd be. 
She gives him a quick look of inquiry. 
STEVE You're so nice. 
MARY Did someone say I wasn't nice? 
STEVE Oh no. Nobody said nothing to me. Only I got the idea that -- well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing, but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street. 
CLAY (interrupting) Time to go to bed, Steve. 
Steve looks up, then rises reluctantly. 
STEVE Good night, Miss Wells. 
MARY Good night, Steve. 
Steve exits. Mary looks after him, then up at Clay. 
MARY (soft) There's a nice boy. 
CLAY Yeah. 
MARY (sharp) That why you always took him on the other side of the street? 
Clay kicks loose embers into the fire. 
MARY (sharper) Maybe I don't make the grade in some ways, but I know enough to teach a kid his letters. 
Clay turns from the fire to stand above her. 
CLAY (quiet) He doesn't know his letters, no -- but he knows the names of animals... he knows what roots to eat when you're clear out of food... He knows the difference between a possum and a coon just by lookin' at the tracks... more than most trappers know... and he can tell whether she'll rain or shine tomorrow by smelling the air tonight. There's a lot of things he doesn't know, I hope he'll never learn. 
He pauses, looking down. 
MARY Like what? 
CLAY (turning away) Like sticking his nose into other people's business. 
Clay moves out of the circle of firelight to stop and pick up his rifle, tarp and blanket, then climbs the knoll. Mary stares into the fire, then rising she starts toward the wagon. 
EXT. KNOLL - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Clay reaches the top of the knoll and stands looking off. Below him the campfire burns low. Mary reaches the wagon. 
EXT. WAGON - MOONLIGHT - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT ANGLED PAST Mary TOWARD Clay. Mary stops, looking up. A match flares as Clay lights a cigarette. O.s. there is the SOUND of the bell mare's bell, the SOUND of horses moving restlessly. Mary turns, looks under the wagon. 
MED. CLOSE DOWN ANGLE 
Elaine is gone. Helen is asleep. Mary drops to her knees on the tarp and shakes Helen in wakefulness. 
MARY Where's Elaine? 
Helen sits up and looks over at Elaine's side of the bed. 
HELEN She was here a while ago. 
Mary straightens, moves down past the wagon, CAMERA PANNING WITH her. She calls softly. 
MARY (softly) Elaine! 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay. He looks down toward the wagon as Mary calls Elaine's name again, this time louder. 
MARY'S VOICE Elaine. (then) Clay -- Elaine's gone. 
Clay frowns, pitches his cigarette away and starts down toward the wagon. 
rain -- the caravan. Clay leads it through a rain that has filled the ruts in the trail, soaked the horses to glistening black -- and obscures all view of the country through which they are passing. SOUND of rain falling is loud. Clay and Steve both wear slickers, gleaming from their shoulders to the rumps of their horses. Mary, a tarp around her shoulders, drives. Elaine and Helen huddle under a tarpaulin in the wagon bed. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
rain -- DOWN ANGLE -- wagon moving. Elaine sits up and, in her delirium, throws off the tarp. Helen tries to pull her down. 
HELEN (crying out) Elaine -- stop it -- 
CLOSE SHOT 
rain -- Clay. He wheels his horse at the SOUND of Helen's voice and rides back through the rain toward the wagon. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
rain -- wagon. Mary pulls on the reins and the mules stop. Twisting them around the whip-stock, she swings back into the wagon bed. She looks up at Clay. 
MARY She should be in bed where it's dry. 
In her anxiety, her tone is accusing. Clay drops the reins, climbs into the wagon and bends down beside Elaine. He puts his hand on her forehead. 
MED. CLOSE 
rain - DOWN ANGLE - featuring Clay and Mary. 
CLAY (dryly) Yes, Ma'am, she should... 
He starts fixing the tarp so it gives more protection to the sick girl. 
CLAY But the nearest shelter's the Wyatt ranch and that's maybe five hours away. 
MARY Can we get a doctor at that ranch? 
CLAY (straightening) No, Ma'am, we can't. We can get a roof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
rain. Clay vaults out of the wagon and mounts his horse. Mary rises and climbs back into the seat. She lashes the mules with the reins. The wagon jolts forward. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
rain - ANGLED ACROSS seat - (MOVING). Clay rides alongside. Then, without a word, he strips off his slicker, tosses it on the seat and rides off. Mary looks after him, then at the slicker. She hesitates, not wanting to take favors from him. Then she pulls the slicker around her. Taking the whip, she hits the mules. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS and CAMERA HOLDS. The team breaks into a trot. The cavalcade moves away from camera through drenching rain. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. WYATT RANCH - DAY 
LONG SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH gate in barbed wire fence. The ranch is nestled in a valley at the base of the Sierras. Green meadowland surrounds the farm buildings which consist of a cabin, barn and sheds, all in good repair and white- washed, as are the corral fences and the picket fence around the house, which stands in a clump of trees. The wind has pushed the clouds back over the hills, but far off there is still thunder. The gate in front f.g. is of barbed wire. It is closed. On the fence post a board is tacked. Neatly lettered on the board is the name: 
ED WYATT 
From o.s. comes the SOUND of horses moving restlessly and the creaking of saddle leather, as a man swings out of the saddle. Footsteps approach. A man's head and shoulders, back to camera, comes into scene. He unloops the strand of bailing wire and lets the gate fall open, then turns and we see his face. He is Lednov. His cheek and jowls have a dark growth of beard. He wears a black leather jacket and a wrangler's grey hat. The clothes Forster was wearing. As he moves back to his horse, CAMERA PULLS BACK and PANS AROUND. 
His companions, McCall and Peters, also wear black leather jackets, sombre, dusty pants and hats. They are mounted on matched roans. The horses are winded, lathered and dirty. It is obvious they have ridden hard. Lednov strides forward and as he reaches for the reins the horse shies away. Brutally he jerks on the reins. The horse rears. He snatches his hat from his head and whacks the horse across the nose. McCall rides over and grabs the reins. Lednov scrambles into the saddle. 
MED. SHOT 
ANGLED TOWARD gate. Lednov rides forward through the gate. His horse is limping badly. The others follow. They do not stop to put the gate back up. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. TRAIL - DAY 
LONG SHOT. Clay's cavalcade moves forward along the trail. There are cloud patches overhead and faintly in the back country thunder rumbles. The mules pull the jolting wagons forward in a slow trot. Clay rides ahead. Steve and the remuda follow. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. WYATT RANCH - DAY 
FULL SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride into the yard and up to the horses' trough. The horses plunge their muzzles deep into the trough. As the men dismount, Wyatt, a sinewy little man, hurries from the direction of the barn. 
MED. SHOT 
at horse trough. Wyatt, smiling his pleasure, comes up as the three men dismount. 
WYATT (happily) My name's Wyatt. Certainly glad you boys dropped in. 
He extends his hand to Lednov. Lednov ignores it. The three men are looking around them. Two work horses, fat and elderly, amble across the corral to nuzzle the roans through the fence. 
LEDNOV Those the only horses you got? 
Wyatt is a little taken aback by Lednov's manner. 
WYATT Why, yes. They're all I need... 
LEDNOV Mine's gone lame. Take a look at him. 
Wyatt frowns up at Lednov, angered by the order. 
LEDNOV Go on, we haven't got all day. 
McCall and Peters move closer to Wyatt, who glances around worriedly. Realizing he better do as he's told, he goes to the roan and rubs his ears. 
WYATT Whoa, boy. Let's have a look. 
Bending, he lifts the horse's hoof. Lednov, McCall and Peters watch him. He drops the hoof, straightens. 
WYATT He dropped a shoe. You shouldn't be ridin' him. 
LEDNOV Put on another one. 
WYATT That won't help the stone bruise. You ain't been around horses much, looks like. 
LEDNOV Will you quit gabbin' and do what you're told. 
STEVE'S VOICE Yo -- 
MED. FULL SHOT 
The wagon reaches the crest of the hill. Mary hits the mules with the reins. The mules break into a trot. Behind, the remuda comes into view. Clay sits his horse by the side of the trail and watches. 
EXT. FARM HOUSE - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Mrs. Wyatt stands by the stove, watching the three men at the table. Wyatt sits in a chair by the stove. 
MCCALL I'll have some more of that coffee. 
Lednov pushes his chair back and rises. 
LEDNOV We got to get movin'. 
MCCALL What for? 
LEDNOV Because there's a man I want to see. 
MCCALL He can wait. Let's stay here until morning. 
Wyatt and his wife exchange frightened glances. That's the last thing they want. 
LEDNOV (rising) I said let's go. 
MCCALL (protesting) One night more won't matter. Your friend'll be there. Anyway I don't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. He knows you're out so he ain't going to sit still for it. 
LEDNOV (fierce) I said I had a guy to see and I'm going to see him. 
With the fingers of his right hand he automatically rubs his shoulder just above the heart. 
LEDNOV He gave me something once so I wouldn't forget. 
PETERS (rising) He says go, we go. 
Grudgingly, McCall gives in. They exit. Wyatt stares after them raging at his impotence. 
WYATT If they'd only left me a gun, I'd fix 'em. 
MRS. WYATT Hush, Ed. Hush. They might come back. 
EXT. CORRAL - NIGHT 
MED. FULL SHOT. The three men mount their horse, dig their spurs in and ride away. As they ride toward the gate, Wyatt comes out on the steps. 
EXT. TRAIL - NIGHT 
LONG SHOT. Here the trail passes through a narrow draw, then climbs a small rise which overlooks the gate. Clay's caravan jogs along the trail. 
EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT 
LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. The caravan climbs toward camera. CAMERA PANS AROUND to SHOOT DOWN TOWARD the Wyatt ranch. Through the gate ride Lednov, McCall and Peters. They stop for a moment then turn right and trot along the fence line. As they disappear, the SOUND of the caravan's approach is heard o.s. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. WYATT RANCH - NIGHT - (MOONLIGHT) 
MED. FULL SHOT. Clay gallops into the yard and swings out of the saddle. The farmhouse is dark. 
INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 
ANGLED THROUGH window, PAST Wyatt. Clay opens the gate and hurries up the steps and across the porch. 
EXT. PORCH - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Clay raps on the door. 
CLAY Mr. Wyatt. 
WYATT'S VOICE Who is it? 
CLAY Clay Phillips. 
The door opens. Wyatt comes out. He pumps Clay's hand. 
WYATT (calling) You can light the lamp. (to Clay) I'm sure glad it's you. We were afraid those killers might come back. 
CLAY Three men on matched roans? 
In the kitchen a match flares as Mrs. Wyatt lights the lamp. 
WYATT Yeah, how did you know? 
CLAY The whole state's lookin' for 'em. (dryly) And they're lookin' for me. 
Mrs. Wyatt comes out to stand in the doorway. She shakes Clay's hand. 
MRS. WYATT You don't know how good it is to see you. 
CLAY Maybe you won't feel that way after I tell you what I stopped in for. 
He turns and motions off. 
LONG SHOT 
ANOTHER ANGLE. Clay, Wyatt and Mrs. Wyatt in f.g. The wagon is coming toward the yard followed by the remuda. 
CLAY I picked up some women on the road. 
THREE SHOT 
Clay, Mrs. Wyatt and Wyatt. O.s. the wagon and horses can he heard. 
TWO SHOT 
Clay and Wyatt. Clay takes the makings from his pocket, rolls a cigarette, lights it. 
CLAY I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know who she was. 
WYATT (quiet) All right, you didn't know. 
CLAY I can't take her with me. 
WYATT Nobody asked you to. 
O.s. Steve whistles the tune of the A B C song as he comes out of the barn. 
WYATT Just get those two out of here. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Steve approaches from the barn. 
CLAY You're not bein' quite fair. 
WYATT What's there to be fair about? 
TWO SHOT 
Clay and Wyatt. Clay takes the making from his pocket, rolls a cigarette, lights it. 
CLAY I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know you had a daughter. 
WYATT (quiet) All right, you didn't know. 
CLAY I can't take her with me. 
WYATT Nobody asked you to. 
O.s. Steve whistles the tune of the A B C song as he comes out of the barn. 
WYATT Just get these two out of here. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Steve approaches from the barn. 
CLAY You're not bein' quite fair. 
WYATT What's there to be fair about? 
Steve comes up. 
STEVE Hello, Mr. Wyatt. 
He starts whistling again as he continues toward the wagon. 
MED. SHOT 
wagon. Steve picks up a couple of valises and some blankets and heads for the house, still whistling. In the b.g. can be heard the mutter of voices as Clay and Wyatt talk. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Helen is sitting at the table, eating a piece of bread and drinking coffee. Mary stands at the window. Steve is heard coming up the steps and across the porch. He pushes the door open and enters. 
STEVE (cheerfully) Where do I put your things? 
Mary turns from the window. 
MARY Back in the wagon. 
Steve stands with his arms full, looking at Mary. 
STEVE Aren't we stayin'? 
MARY No. We're not stayin' -- 
She crosses to him and smiles wryly. 
MARY Everything's all mixed up, so don't ask questions. 
Steve hesitates. 
MARY (soft) Go on, Steve. 
Steve exits. 
EXT. PORCH - NIGHT 
MED. CLOSE. Steve stops on the porch. He is puzzled, worried. He glances back then over toward the fence where Wyatt and Clay are talking. He shrugs and starts off toward the wagon. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Mary crosses to the stove. 
HELEN Sit down and eat, why don't you? 
Mary lifts the stove lid and puts a stick in the firebox. 
HELEN It isn't like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of. 
MARY That's not what's worryin' me. Why didn't she tell us? Maybe we could have done somethin' -- gone somewhere else -- puttin' a poor sick kid through this -- 
HELEN Quit worryin' about Elaine. 
She motions to the bedroom door. 
Turning, he exits. Mrs. Wyatt holds Elaine close. 
EXT. PORCH 
MED. SHOT. Helen stands on the porch in the sunlight. She glances back. Clay, his expression hard and angry comes out. He doesn't look at Helen but stalks down the steps toward the wagon. 
MED. SHOT ON WAGON 
STEVE What comes after Z? 
MARY That's the end of the line. 
STEVE (happily) Then I know my alphabet. 
MARY From A to Z. All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Clay comes toward the wagon. Helen stands on the porch. 
STEVE And that's tough, isn't it? 
MARY Without someone to teach you, it's tough. 
Clay appears behind her. Mary turns and smiles. 
MARY He knows his alphabet. 
CLAY That's fine. 
STEVE I'll bet I'd be reading in a week if -- 
He catches Clay's glance and his face falls. 
MARY Maybe Clay will take up where I left off. 
Steve gets some courage. He comes over to his brother and faces him. 
STEVE I don't think it's fair -- 
He pauses; Clay waits. 
STEVE Leaving them here when we could just as well take them. We got plenty of room in the wagon. And -- and -- they cook and drive the mules. They don't bother anybody. 
CLAY Finished, son? 
STEVE (weakly) There's only two of them now. 
Clay moves past them toward the corral. Mary looks after him, then turning, motions to Helen. Helen starts toward the wagon. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Clay's horse stands saddled at the fence. He vaults into the saddle, turns the horse. 
CLAY I'll round up the horses. Throw that junk in the wagon. 
He rides off. Steve, delighted, runs to start loading the girls' things. Helen hurries into the scene. 
MED. CLOSE 
Mary and Helen. Mary smiles at Helen. 
MARY (happily) You were right -- a man has only so many no's in him. But he had me worried -- that last one sounded so final. 
Helen nods, looking at Mary as though in admiration. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. WYATT RANCH 
LONG SHOT - the wagon, followed by the remuda and with Clay riding ahead moves slowly up the canyon back of the ranch. 
FADE OUT 
EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY FADE IN 
LONG SHOT - ANGLED WEST. The forest is fairly open, yellow pine, lodgepole and fir. To the West can be seen the bald red granite domes of the higher range. O.s. there is the SOUND of the cavalcade approaching. CAMERA PANS AROUND and ANGLES PAST. Toward camera, comes the cavalcade, climbing slowly. Far in the distance and down can be seen the waste of desert and the barren hills of Nevada. Clay, a rifle across his legs, is riding on one side of the wagon. Steve rides beside Mary, who is driving. The remuda trails behind. Helen, lying in the wagon bed, cannot be seen. 
MED. TRUCKING SHOT 
ANGLED PAST Steve. Steve has a copy of Leslie's Weekly open on the pommel. Helen lies full length in the wagon bed, occupying herself by giving herself a manicure with an orange stick. 
STEVE It's a lot tougher than I figured. Knowin' my letters is one thing. But makin' sense out of words is harder'n trackin' weasel after rain. 
Clay glances over at his brother. Mary sees him watching. Their eyes meet. She smiles. He doesn't return the smile. 
STEVE -- and even if I do learn to read, what use'll it be? I'm goin' to live on a ranch! 
MARY There's plenty of use for reading -- you'll see. 
He sighs and scowls down at the page. He puts his finger on a word and starts to spell it out. 
STEVE U-n-i-c-o-r-n-... What in heck's that? 
MARY Unicorn -- a kind of animal -- 
STEVE What do they look like? 
MARY Hmmm... sort of like a horse -- with a horn in the center of its forehead. 
STEVE Horses with horns! Huh! Do we have 'em in Nevada? 
MARY No. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Clay tightens the cinch. Mary moves up to stand beside him. 
MARY Are we leaving? 
CLAY It's too light yet. 
He swings into the saddle, pulls the rifle out of the scabbard and lays it across the pommel. 
CLAY Better go on back and get some more sleep. You'll need it later on. 
MARY (soberly) You're not going out to look for them? 
CLAY No, I'm not. All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us -- a long way ahead. So I'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail. 
He touches the mare with his spurs and trots down the hill. He disappears around a bend in the trail. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Mary, in the f.g., is staring after Clay. Helen is watching her. Steve has risen and walks up behind her. He smiles at her. 
STEVE Nobody's gonna catch him sleeping. Don't worry about him. 
MARY (turning) Oh, I wasn't worrying. (flustered) I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave. 
She starts down toward the wagon, Steve walking beside her and CAMERA TRUCKING WITH them THROUGH the forest. 
STEVE (softly) You were worryin'. 
Mary glances over. 
STEVE Sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. You can't read books so you look at people and figure 'em out. 
MARY And you've got me all figured out? 
STEVE Sure. 
They have passed Helen, playing solitaire on the canvas, and have reached the place where the grub box stands. Steve spreads a tarp for her. 
STEVE I'll fix us somethin' to eat. 
Mary sits down. Steve opens the grub box and takes out some plates, tinned food and hardtack. 
STEVE Like when you were standin' there looking after Clay. I knew right off what you were thinking. Because I've been watching you. 
MARY You were supposed to be reading words. 
STEVE I was doin' both. Here. 
He hands her a plate of food, takes another and goes over to Helen. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Helen looks up from her card game, takes the plate with a smile. 
HELEN Thanks, Steve. 
He grins at her, turns and comes back to Mary who is watching him. 
MARY Better not let Clay catch you waitin' on us. 
Steve sits on the edge of the grub box and picks up his plate. 
STEVE Don't pay any attention to him. That's his way and I've found he's sure easy to get along with. I don't recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin'. 
MARY But you're his brother. 
STEVE He'll treat his wife just as good. Maybe better. Ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers? 
Mary shakes her head. 
STEVE Yes sir, Clay's nice to be around. (the clincher) He don't chew much and when he does he spits outside. 
HELEN (dryly) You make him sound wonderful... Go on. Tell Mary more about him. 
Steve looks over at her, embarrassed, a little hurt by her tone. He rises, takes Mary's empty plate and his own and goes over to the little spring to wash them. Mary looks sharply at Helen. Helen shrugs. Mary rises and follows Steve over to the spring. 
MED. CLOSE ON SPRING 
Steve kneels by the little pool, washing the plates in the run off. Mary stops above him. 
MARY She was only teasin'. 
STEVE (offhand) Oh, sure. 
MARY Let me do that. 
She kneels beside him. Steve looks over at her. 
STEVE I like to do things for you. Didn't you know? 
She looks down at the water bubbling up into the little moss lined pool. 
MARY (softly) I know now. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. TRAIL - NIGHT 
CLOSE SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. O.s. there is the SOUND of the cavalcade moving. A wheel passes camera, then another. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal the wagon passing in the moonlit darkness. Mary is driving. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
MED. SHOT 
Clay. He rides around the bend in the trail. He hears something. He reins the horse in. Some pebbles rattle down the cliff. He looks up. 
FROM CLAY'S ANGLE 
The muzzle of a rifle is visible. Clay starts to bring his gun up. 
FOWLER'S VOICE Hold it! 
DOWN ANGLE 
Clay lets his rifle rest across his knees. He looks up. Fowler, a well-set-up young man in jeans, blue shirt and worn jacket and wearing a battered hat, moves into scene. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Clay. He is wary, puzzled as to the man's identity. For all he knows it may be one of Lednov's men. 
MED. SHOT 
Clay and Fowler. 
FOWLER What are you doin' on this trail? 
CLAY Followin' it. Any reason I shouldn't? 
MED. LONG SHOT 
SHOOTING PAST Fowler. Into view comes the wagon and the remuda. Fowler lowers his rifle. He slides down the cliff to stand beside Clay. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay and Fowler. 
FOWLER My name's Fowler. I'm camped up a ways. 
He extends his hand. Clay shakes it. 
CLAY Clay Phillips of Aspen. Been havin' trouble? 
FOWLER Nope. But I don't want any. 
CLAY Neither do we. That's why we took this trail instead of the main road, and drove all night. 
FOWLER You're welcome to use my camp. 
He motions ahead, starts walking. Clay rides beside him. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MEADOW 
FULL SHOT. The river is beyond the meadow. In the pine forest at the edge of the meadow is Fowler's camp. The cavalcade is driving up to the camp. There are two horses tethered in the meadow. 
EXT. FOWLER'S CAMP 
MED. FULL SHOT. A tarp is stretched over the camp. There is a crude stone fireplace, a rough table and two benches. Shelves are nailed between the trees. In a small lean-to there is a bunk with Fowler's bedroll on it. Fowler stands watching Mary and Holen as they get out of the wagon. The horses sproad out across the meadow. Steve and Clay dismount. Both unsaddle. Helen, Mary and Fowler exchange glances. Then the two women walk toward the camp, which is behind a screen of trees. 
MED. CLOSE ON CAMP 
Helen and Mary enter the camp. 
MARY We might as well start a fire. 
HELEN Go ahead. (nodding off) Get in training for the pioneer life. I'm finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it. 
She goes off and across the meadow. Mary looks after her, shrugs and going to the fireplace, takes moss and twigs from the pile and puts them in. Clay, carrying saddle bags and canteens, enters. 
MARY Got a light? 
He puts them down, goes over to the fireplace and kneels to light the moss. Mary has stepped back. 
CLOSE SHOT - LOW 
As he lights the fire, the lower portion of Mary's body comes into the shot. Clay becomes aware of her closeness. He rises slowly. CAMERA ANGLES UP. Mary is standing facing him, almost touching him. They stare at each other without speaking. Both suddenly move togother. They kiss. There is a SOUND over shot and they step apart, looking off. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Steve has come into scene and is looking at them. He smiles with pleasure and surprise. 
STEVE (innocently) Want the wagon unloaded, Clay? 
CLAY (upset) Just the grub box and bed rolls. 
Steve nods, smiles at both of them and goes out of scene. Clay and Mary face each other. Suddenly Clay swings around and goes out of shot after his brother. 
CLOSE SHOT - MARY 
She looks after him, clearly in love, disappointed that they were interrupted. Then she turns to the fire. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
Clay and Steve. CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of them as they walk toward the wagon. Steve has begun to whistle blithely. Clay looks sideways at him. Steve whistles even louder. They stop at the wagon. CAMERA HOLDS. Steve climbs inside and hands down the grub box. 
STEVE I -- I think it'll be swell. 
Clay puts the grub box on the ground. Steve tosses out the bed rolls, then jumps out. He grins up at Clay. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay, embarrassed, puts his hand on the boy's shoulder. 
CLAY When you get older you'll understand things better. Like women and men. Just because a man kisses a woman, doesn't always mean -- well, he can kiss her and not want to -- have her around all the time. 
She holds his hand, smiling up. Clay hesitates, then desire for her is more than he can bear, so he takes her in his arms. They kiss, holding the kiss for a long while. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
They break. She lies looking up. He half lies, half sits beside her. 
MARY (a whisper) Tell me, darling. 
CLAY What? 
MARY What does a man usually tell a girl? 
For answer, Clay kisses her again -- hard, ruthlessly. His hands crush her shoulders. Mary holds the kiss for a moment, then draws back, waiting for him to say the words she wants to hear. His hands pull her toward him. Mary wants the kiss -- but she also wants a declaration of love. She makes one last try to get it. 
MARY Tell me -- please -- 
Clay's grip on her shoulders tightens. She searches his face with a glance -- stares into his eyes -- then pushes him away and sits up. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Mary. She is hurt by his silence. 
MARY All right you don't love me. So let it go at that. 
CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS. Clay's expression hardens. He drops his hands from her shoulders. 
CLAY What did you expect? Speeches I don't mean? 
MARY I don't expect anything. A minute ago I hadn't cuite waked up. 
She stands. He rises to face her. 
MARY I'm awake now. Go on. Say what you want to say. I'll listen. 
CLAY If it's pretty speeches you want, you won't be hearing them. Even when I mean 'em, they don't come easy. 
MARY Save 'em for the girl in gingham. Just tell me I'm not good enough for you. Go on. Say a woman like me can't change. 
CLAY All right -- it's said! 
MARY Then let's get started. The sooner I get to Sonora, the better I'll like it. 
Turning she starts down toward camp. 
MED. LONG SHOT 
ANGLED PAST Clay. Below is the camp. Beyond the camp, through the trees, stands the wagon and Steve is hitching up the mules. Clay hesitates, then follows. 
CLOSE TRUCKING SHOT 
Mary. Tears form in her eyes. She blinks them away, composing herself with an effort. 
EXT. CAMP 
MED. SHOT - Helen and Fowler in f.g. Helen sits at one side of the table, Fowler on the other. Helen holds the soft leather poke. In the b.g. Mary approaches. Behind her comes Clay. 
HELEN You're sure there's more where this came from? 
FOWLER Plenty more. (motioning) And somewhere up there's the lode, the rock rotten with it. 
Helen pours the gold out in her palm as Mary comes up. Mary stands looking down. 
HELEN Pretty, isn't it? And all you have to do is shovel sand into a thing and the river does the work. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Clay enters the scene and goes over to pick up his saddle bags. 
MARY (quiet) Give it back to him. We're leavin'. 
HELEN Maybe you are. I'm not. 
She reaches over and pats Fowler's hand. 
HELEN I'm stayin' here with Jed. 
Mary looks from Helen to Fowler. 
FOWLER (shyly) I figure we'll get along just fine. 
HELEN Well cheer, why don't you? No more responsibilities, Mary. Marcia -- Elaine -- me -- all taken care of. Down there feeding horses and raising kids, you won't have a thing to worry about. 
Mary stands looking down at Helen. Lovingly Helen pours the gold back in the poke. 
MARY I'm not raising horses or kids for anybody. I'm opening the slickest gambling house in California with a crystal chandelier, the biggest you ever saw -- 
Clay, saddle bags in hand, straightens. Mary directs the rest of the speech at him. 
MARY -- Gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. Cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. What do you think of that? 
HELEN Sounds fine. Only that isn't how it's going to be. 
Helen juggles the poke in her hand. 
HELEN I'm sure of this. But not of you. (shakes head) You won't open any joint. I've been watching you change. You're mad now and you think you can change back. But you can't. You'll end up making beds in a boarding house. 
MARY (furious) That's it then. 
FOWLER (the master) That's it. She's staying with me -- for keeps. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Steve has entered the camp and is standing looking at them open-mouthed. Mary moves over to Fowler and holds out her hand. 
FOWLER They went on like I told you. 
EXT. FOREST - MOONLIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Helen cautiously moves away from the camp. 
LEDNOV'S VOICE How long ago? 
FOWLER Five, six hours. 
A twig snaps underfoot. Helen freezes. 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Lednov is staring off in the direction of Helen. McCall moves to the edge of the lean-to, looking off. 
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 
MED. CLOSE SHOT. Helen starts forward again, more cautiously than ever. She reaches a tree, turns to look back. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Helen, back to camera, is in immediate f.g. Through the trees can be seen the camp and the flickering fire. She turns, and then fright comes into her expression. 
REVERSE SHOT 
Peters stands in front of her. As he reaches out for her, she tries to get away. He grabs her, wrapping his arms around her. 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. From o.s. comes the SOUND of Helen and Peters struggling. Fowler, hearing the SOUND, gets to his feet. Lednov and McCall turn on him. 
LEDNOV Sit down. (calling) All right, Peters, come on over here. 
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 
MED. SHOT. Peters, carrying the struggling Helen, heads for the camp. 
EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 
ANOTHER ANGLE. Fowler makes a futile dive for Lednov. McCall swings his rifle. Fowler goes down. In the b.g. Peters drags the struggling Helen around the lean-to into the camp. 
LEDNOV (to Fowler) So you were all alone. 
He moves forward to meet Helen and Peters. Lednov reaches out for Helen. Peters pulls her away. 
PETERS (sharp) You keep your hands off. 
McCall has taken his attention from Fowler and gives it to Helen. Unnoticed now, Fowler is struggling back to consciousness. He tries to pull himself up. McCall turns back and kicks him again. 
HELEN (yelling) Let him alone! 
She rakes Peters' face with her fingernails, tries to fight free. Lednov reaches out and grabs her arm. Peters knocks his arm down. Free for the moment, Helen launches an attack on McCall, who is getting ready to boot Fowler again. She is on him like a cat, swarming all over him. He defends himself. Helen is yelling furiously as she fights McCall. 
HELEN Kick a guy, would you! You scum! You won't do any kickin' when they come back. 
Lednov has reached her now. He wraps his arms around her and pulls her away from McCall. Helen tries to fight him. 
HELEN You dirty murderers... killin' people when they're sleepin'... 
Lednov pinions her arms. 
LEDNOV How do you know who we are? 
HELEN Everybody knows -- 
LEDNOV (excited) Who brought you here? 
Helen doesn't answer. Lednov starts twisting her arms. 
LEDNOV You said somebody was comin' back -- who's comin' back? 
HELEN (moaning) Stop it -- 
As the pain increases she blurts out Clay's name. 
HELEN Clay Phillips. 
LEDNOV Where is he? 
HELEN Up the trail. 
In a fury, Lednov crushes her arm. 
LEDNOV How far up the trail? 
HELEN (moaning) I don't know -- I don't know. 
He hurls her from him. She goes back against the table. Fowler is trying to struggle to his feet. In blind rage, Lednov raises his gun and fires. Fowler crumples. Helen looks down, too horrified and terrified to scream. Lednov looks at her, then almost casually he shoots her. McCall and Peters stand watching as though frozen. 
PETERS (huskily) You didn't have to do that. 
LEDNOV (deadly) Why not? She might have got to Clay Phillips before I did. 
AS HE TURNS, 
FADE OUT 
EXT. OPEN RIDGE FADE IN 
MED. FULL SHOT - ANGLES east. Behind the ridge rises the range through which the pass to Nevada cuts its way. The trail which has dipped down into a canyon comes up to follow the ridge a ways and then drops down again. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride along the trail. Lednov, in the lead, stops suddenly and looks off. 
EXTREME LONG SHOT 
CLAY Come on. We got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep. 
STEVE I'll eat when I'm good and ready. 
CLAY Kind of feeling your oats this morning. I haven't laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that doesn't mean you're too old. 
STEVE What makes you think you're so almighty? Telling people what to do and how to act when you don't even know how yourself. 
[As this scene continues, there is heard, faintly o.s. the SOUND of little bells, the kind that teamsters put on the hames of their horses. Over the hill, in the direction of Yosemite, a stage is approaching. It is coming slowly uphill. Soon it will be visible on the rise about a mile south of the meadow.] 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
SHOOTING TOWARD Steve and Clay PAST Mary. She is asleep. 
STEVE You ain't even man enough to own up when you're wrong. 
Clay rises and stands facing Steve. 
STEVE Go on, hit me. 
CLAY Sit down and eat. Till I say the word, you're doing what you're told. 
STEVE You oughta say you're sorry -- that's what you oughta do. 
CLAY You keep your nose out of my life, young fella. 
STEVE Maybe I haven't lived as long as you have, but I know a sight more about people and I wouldn't talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if I did, I'd say how sorry I was. I'd be man enough to do that. 
Steve's voice rises during this speech. In f.g. Mary stirs and opens her eyes. Then she sits up. 
CLAY I said keep your nose out of my life. No kid is going to tell me how to run it. 
STEVE You think you're so slmighty -- smart -- Who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday -- just because a man kisses a woman -- 
Mary has risen. She is listening to Steve. She is also listening to the bells. 
LONG SHOT 
her ANGLE. Over the rise comes the stage. It is still a long way off. 
STEVE'S VOICE -- doesn't mean he wants to marry her. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
to include all three. The brothers still don't see Mary. 
STEVE Well, if you didn't mean it, why did you kiss her? 
Clay is ashamed but won't show it. He puts his hand on Steve's shoulder and pushes him. 
CLAY Shut up and eat. 
Steve swings for his chin. Clay ducks the blow, grabs Steve's wrist. Steve swings with his left, hitting Clay ineffectually. Clay pins Steve's arms to his side. 
MARY (sharply) Stop it -- both of you. 
She walks toward them as Clay releases Steve and steps back. Steve puts his hands up, making ready for another round. 
MARY I won't have you fighting over me. 
CLAY (to Steve) I'm sorry. 
STEVE You don't know what it is to be sorry. 
MARY (sharp) Steve -- 
Steve turns abruptly and moves away. He is on the verge of tears. 
MARY (to Clay) Mind sortin' out my things -- I'm leaving. 
She motions off. Clay is suddenly aware of the approaching stage. He looks in that direction. 
LONG SHOT 
FROM his ANGLE. The stage drives along the road. 
MARY Maybe it isn't going to Sonora, but it's going somewhere, which is all right with me. 
CLAY It's going to Sonora. 
MARY Fine -- maybe I'll see you there sometime. 
She turns and starts going through the kyacks, looking for her things. Clay frowns down at her. 
MARY Because as you said, that's where I belong. 
Mary's attention is on the kyacks. From where Clay stands near her he can see the trail leading down through open country toward the meadow. 
CLAY I said a lot of things -- some of 'em -- 
Something o.s. catches his attention, then he pauses to look off. 
EXT. TRAIL 
LONG SHOT - his ANGLE. Up on the ridge there is the flash of sun on metal. 
EXT. RIDGE 
MED. SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters ride through the trees. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Clay. He looks up anxiously, then turns. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to include Mary and she straightens and faces him, her back to the trail. 
STEVE Half of them are mine. 
CLAY (hard) You'll get your share. Go on. I don't want you around. 
Turning, he crosses to where Steve's horse stands. CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS. He loads the horse back, throws a blanket and saddle on and cinches up the saddle. Steve watches, angry and hurt. Clay steps back. 
CLAY There you are. 
MED. CLOSE 
the two brothers. They stare at each other. Steve is on the verge of tears. Hurriedly, he swings into the saddle. 
MED. SHOT 
He glances down to Clay and digs his spurs in and gallops after the stage. Clay's stern expression leaves his face. He looks after the boy, smiles softly and then starts carrying the pack-saddle into the shelter of the forest. 
EXT. ROAD 
MED. SHOT. Steve rides along the road. He pulls his horse in, then glances back. 
EXT. MEADOW 
LONG SHOT - Steve's ANGLE. Clay is carrying the belongings into the shelter of the forest. CAMERA PANS OVER and UP. Momentarily a horseman is seen riding into an open space. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Steve as he stares. Then understanding his brother's actions, he jerks the reins and swings the horse around and rides back toward the meadow. 
EXT. MEADOW 
MED. SHOT - Steve gallops across the meadow to the corral, swings off and starts unsaddling. Clay is inside the forest lighting the fire. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay. He looks over toward Steve, then rises and hurries toward him. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay and Steve. Steve takes down the bars and puts the horse in the corral. Clay comes up to him as he's putting the bars back up. 
CLAY What did you come back for? 
STEVE Like I told you, half those horses are mine. I'm makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. So let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'. 
The two brothers stare at each other. 
CLAY (softly) Is that the only reason you came back? 
STEVE (gruff) Sure. What other reason would there be? 
CLAY (smiling) I just wondered. Let's go. 
EXT. MEADOW 
LONG SHOT - DOWN ANGLE. Above the pines smoke rises. The horses graze inside the corral. In the shadowy forest by the creek, Clay's camp can be seen. A tarp has been stretched over the camp. Lednov moves into the right hand side of the frame and looks down. 
REVERSE SHOT 
Lednov stands on a rocky hill looking down in the meadow. Behind him are McCall and Peters. They are screened from the meadow by the rocks. Lednov turns and starts off through the rocks to circle above the camp. The two men follow. All are on foot. 
EXT. ROCK 
LONG SHOT SHOOTING PAST Clay and along his rifle. Clay, hidden behind a wall of rock, is watching the trail where it comes down into the meadow. Something moves on the rocky hill above and to his left. He looks up, waiting. The movement stops. Clay glances around. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Below Clay, Steve lies in a cut in the rocks, watching the camp. Clay motions toward the hill. Steve nods. 
EXT. ROCK 
PAN SHOT - FROM Clay's ANGLE. CAMERA, SHOOTING THROUGH the rifle sights, SEARCHES the forest and meadow. As a flight of birds suddenly rises above a section of the forest, the CAMERA HOLDS. 
EXT. ROCKY HILLTOP 
MED. SHOT. Lednov, McCall and Peters have stopped, halted by the sudden flight of the birds. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Below is the camp. Lednov motions. 
LEDNOV (to Peters) Go on down and have a look. 
PETERS (scoffing) And get my head blown off! Not me. 
Lednov looks at McCall. From his pocket, McCall takes a coin. 
MCCALL Call it. 
PETERS Heads. 
McCall flips the coin, shows it to Peters. Peters shrugs and starts moving cautiously down toward the camp. 
MED. CLOSE 
Lednov and McCall. 
LEDNOV And you! Get going. 
McCall moves off to circle around in back of where Clay and Steve wait. Lednov watches him go then, moving to the shelter of the rocks, waits. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
His position commands the meadow, where the horses are corralled, and the camp. 
LEDNOV (calling; echoing) Next time I won't miss. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Clay. He starts forward, face set with rage. 
LEDNOV'S VOICE (echoing) Watch the one with the white face. 
Recklessly Clay raises his rifle and fires three shots at Lednov's position. 
EXT. ROCKS 
MED. FULL SHOT as Clay fires, Steve starts running down. He crosses the creek. 
EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION 
LONG SHOT - DOWN. Lednov sees Steve running. He swings his rifle away from the horses and tries to get the boy in his sights. Clay fires again. A bullet smacks into the tree. Lednov flinches. Then again he tries to center on Steve. 
EXT. MEADOW 
MED. SHOT. Steve runs, bending low, toward the rail fence. A bullet kicks up dirt near him. 
EXT. LEDNOV'S POSITION 
LONG SHOT - DOWN. Steve has almost reached the fence. Lednov fires. Steve stumbles and goes down. 
MED. CLOSE 
Steve. He lies still a moment, then painfully he crawls to the rails and with a great effort tries to tear the rails down. Lednov fires. The bullet whistles past. Steve pulls the fence down, crawls away from the opening. The horses, milling around the corral break through. Steve lies still, face down. 
FULL SHOT 
The meadow, ANGLED PAST Clay. The horses scatter across the meadow. 
MED. SHOT 
Clay, now the hunter, moves toward Lednov's position. Lednov fires. Clay runs and jumps into the creek. Sheltered by the bank he makes his way up the creek. 
MED. CLOSE 
Lednov. He waits, his rifle ready. O.s. a twig snaps. Cautiously he looks ahead. There is silence. 
MED. SHOT 
his ANGLE. A light wind runs through the great trees. Shafts of light filter through the trees, making patterns on the forest floor. The light is dim, deceptive. Lednov, rifle ready, searches for some sign of Clay. Then from another direction comes the SOUND of movement. Lednov swings his rifle in that direction, waits. The SOUND has stopped. 
CLAY'S VOICE I'm here Lednov. 
His voice echoes across the hills. Lednov sights along his rifle at the direction from which the SOUND of Clay's voice came. Momentarily Clay is seen as he runs from one tree to another. Lednov fires. 
MED. CLOSE 
Clay. Clay cautiously edges around the base of a tree. He picks up a stick, stops. 
CLAY Come on out. 
His voice can be heard echoing across the hills. He tosses the stick. Lednov fires at the SOUND of the falling stick. 
LEDNOV'S VOICE Come and get me. 
As his voice echoes across the hills Clay quickly moves into the open and fires. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Lednov crumples forward as his echoing voice fades out. Clay moves over to him to stand looking down. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MEADOW 
MED. SHOT. Steve sits propped up against the fence rail. His shirt is off and his shoulder is crudely bandaged. Clay, who has been putting the bandage on, stands and takes a sack of tobacco from his pocket. 
CLAY (rolling cigarette) How's that? 
STEVE Kind of sore. 
CLAY You'll live. 
STEVE (shyly) Guess maybe I'm old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh? 
CLAY Yeah -- but don't make a habit of it. 
STEVE So -- maybe I'm old enough to tell you how to run your life? 
CLAY (stares down at him, then) I guess so -- but don't make a habit of it. 
STEVE Well, then, I know it takes three -- four weeks for you to come round to admit when you're wrong... But by that time she's liable to be in China... 
Clay looks at him for a moment, not angry, but not admitting he's wrong yet. 
DISSOLVE OUT 
EXT. SONORA - NIGHT (STOCK) 
EXT. SONORA STREET - NIGHT 
FULL SHOT - featuring hotel and doctor's office. The sheriff's posse, the bodies of Lednov, McCall and Wheeler slung across the backs of horses, and Clay's remuda, trot down the street. People come out of the hotel to watch the cavalcade pass. Clay and Steve are not with the posse. Clay's horse is tethered in front of the doctor's office which is next door to the hotel. 
EXT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE 
MED. SHOT - ANGLED THROUGH window. Clay, back to camera, is holding a kerosine lamp. The doctor, a lanky, middle-aged man, is working over Steve, who is stretched out on a table. 
INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE 
