THE RUINS 
Written by 
Scott Smith 
FADE IN ON: 
EXT. CANCUN HOTEL - SWIMMING POOL - DAY 
The hotel is six stories high, a wall of glass and stucco. Beach chairs are arrayed around the pool's edge; sunbathers lie sprawled across them. A short boardwalk leads toward the Gulf of Mexico: the white sand, the blue water. Four young Americans are encamped near the pool's edge; they're all in their early twenties. AMY lies face down on a chaise, eyes shut, a cooler beside her. She's petite, with short blond hair, her skin pinkly sunburned. ERIC sits in the chair beside her, studying the Cliff Notes for The Canterbury Tales. He's leanly muscular, with dark curly hair. Other Cliff Notes lie scattered beneath his chair: Antigone, A Separate Peace, Hea rt of Darkness, 1984. 
JEFF and STACY sit on the far side of the cooler; they're playing gin. Stacy, too, is petite, with short hair, though hers,. is dark. She's wearing a pale blue bikini, and has a beer bottle in her hand. She looks a little bored. Jeff is tall, scrawny. Like Eric, he has a pair of swim trunks on, and is deeply tanned. He's very focused, frowning down at his cards. 
STACY We should play War. It's more fun. Jeff takes a card from his hand, lays it down on the table. 
JEFF That's not even a game. 
STACY Sure it is. I'll teach you. She starts-to fold her hand,'but Jeff shakes his head. 
JEFF I know how to play. I mean it's just chance--there's no skill involved. 
Stacy frowns down at her hand, silenced. She picks a card from the deck, immediately discards it. Jeff snatches it up, lays down one of his own. Stacy stares at it in dismay. 
STACY But I keep losing. 
JEFF 'Cause you're not concentrating. 
STACY I wouldn't have to concentrate if we played War. 
JEFF Exactly. So where's the fun? 
STACY I'd win sometimes. It's not fun if we both can't win. 
JEFF But it's not winning if it's just chance. 
STACY Of course it is. If we flipped a coin, and I called heads, and it-- 
ERIC Fuck..;this.. shit. 
Eric throws the Canterbury Tales to the ground. Then he rises, steps to the cooler, pulls out a beer, carries it back to his chair. Stacy watches as he takes a long swallow. 
STACY Maybe you should just be honest, sweetie. 
Eric doesn't even glance at her. He sips his beer again. 
STACY (cont'd) You could say: look, I don't know anything about these either, so now we're gonna read them together and sort of teach each other as we go. (turning to Jeff) Wouldn't you have loved that? To have a teacher who-- 
Amy speaks without opening her eyes, cutting Stacy off: 
AMY Why would they hire you if you haven't read the books? 
ERIC I said I had. 
JEFF So maybe you should.. 
A young man is approaching down the boardwalk from the beach, carrying fins, a mask, a snorkel. He's in his early twenties: blond, crew-cut, very tall. His name is MATHIAS. As he nears the pool, he stops, staring. 
MATHIAS'S POV - THE POOL Eric and Stacy have risen to join Jeff and Amy; they're all peering into the water. Amy holds her remaining earring out to Eric and Stacy, showing them what it looks like. 
BACK TO SCENE - MATHIAS He stands there, hesitating. Then he starts forward. 
MATHIAS'S POV - THROUGH THE MASK - UNDERWATER - DAY We glide just above the pool's pale blue bottom. A silver earring comes into view. Mathias's hand reaches for it. 
EXT. CANCUN HOTEL - POOL - DAY 
The two couples have spread out around the pool's edge, searching for the earring. Mathias surfaces in front of Amy. He holds out his hand, with the earring-in it; she stares, startled, then crouches to take it. 
AMY Thank you so much. .Mathias nods. He starts to turn, as if to swim off, but Jeff stops him: 
JEFF Wait. . .want a beer? He waves toward their chairs, the cooler beside them. 
EXT. CANCUN HOTEL - POOL - LATER 
Mathias and the two couples sit together, with their beers. Amy's skin has turned deep red; Stacy is behind her, applying lotion to her shoulders. Eric is talking to Mathias: 
ERIC We went sailing yesterday. Out toward Cozumel? And there were these seven foot fish, these huge-- 
JEFF Nurse sharks. 
ERIC (he nods) Like thirty of them. A whole, you know, flock. 
JEFF School. 
ERIC The water was, I don't know, ten feet deep? And they were lying on the bottom, just waiting for somebody to come swimming by-- 
JEFF They're not dangerous. Eric turns, stares at Jeff. 
ERIC You said they're sharks. 
JEFF But they're not dangerous. They eat lobsters. Sea urchins. That sort of thing. Eric considers this, frowning. Then he takes a sip of beer. He shrugs, turns back toward Mathias. 
ERIC I wouldn't be snorkeling on my own.' That's all I'm saying. 
When Mathias speaks, it's with a SLIGHT GERMAN ACCENT: 
MATHIAS I wasn't on my own. I was with my brother. Jeff glances around the pool. 
JEFF He's here? Mathias shakes his head. 
MATHIAS He met a girl. They went away. 
JEFF To? 
MATHIAS It's a complicated story. They watch him, waiting for more, but nothing comes. Finally: 
ERIC You should hang with us, then. If you're on your own. (he glances at the others) Right? Everyone nods, smiling. Eric reaches into the cooler, pulls out another beer, holds it toward Mathias. 
EXT. CANCUN BEACH - NIGHT 
There's a DJ, a dozen beer kegs. A few young men and women are dancing beside a bonfire, but most of the crowd is scattered in small groups across the sand, TALKING, drinking, the firelight flickering off their faces. Stacy, Amy, Eric, Jeff and Mathias are sitting together; they all have cups of beer. Stacy is between Eric's legs, leaning against his chest. Amy, Jeff and Mathias sit cross-legged. Everyone but Jeff and Mathias is a little drunk, and you can hear it in their voices. Amy drains her cup, stands up, very unsteadily. She holds out her hand to Jeff. 
MATHIAS I have to catch a bus. 
JEFF To? Mathias slides the sheet of paper toward him. Jeff bends to look. There's a paragraph in German scrawled above a hand- drawn map, with four place names: Cancun, Valladolid, Tizimin, Coba. A large X has been drawn to the west of Coba. 
MATHIAS The girl my brother met was on her way to this place, to work. (he waves at the map) It's a dig--an archaeological dig. And he went with her. He left the map, saying I could come, too, if I got bored on my own. A beat; he watches Jeff examine the map. Then: MATHIAS (cont'd) Our flight leaves the day after tomorrow. I can wait and hope he returns in time.. Or I can go get him. It's a question of trusting him to do the right thing. 
JEFF And you don't? 
MATHIAS Henrich doesn't think things through. He runs at them. He's... (he searches, shakes his 
HEAD) There's a word in English, but I can't remember it. 
JEFF impetuous? 
MATHIAS (he nods) So I have to be-- 
JEFF Responsible. 
MATHIAS All our lives, the same story. Jeff.slides the map back toward him. 
JEFF It's what? One of those pyramids? 
MATHIAS (he shakes his head) An old mining camp. 
JEFF De oro? 0 plata? Mathias just stares at him. JEFF (cont'd) You don't speak Spanish? Mathias shakes his head. JEFF (cont'd) So how will you find this place? 
MATHIAS (he smiles, shrugs) Follow the m ap. Jeff frowns down at the map for a long beat. It seems as if he's going to question the feasibility of this, but. then he disengages instead, wiping at the sweat on his face. 
JEFF Well, good luck. 
Mathias nods his thanks, and Jeff turns, starts away from the table. WE MOVE with him, across the terrace, into the: 
INT. CANCUN HOTEL - RESTAURANT 
It's completely empty at this hour, and eerily silent. Chairs are stacked on the tables. As Jeff enters, a waiter moves past ham, carrying a pitcher of orange juice. Jeff stops, turns to watch through the window beside the door. 
JEFF'S POV - THROUGH THE WINDOW The waiter refills Mathias's glass. Mathias smiles, nods. 
BACK TO SCENE Jeff hesitates, wavering. Then he pushes open the door again, steps outside. We watch-- 
THROUGH THE WINDOW --as he approaches Mathias. There's the sound of someone RETCHING, COUGHING. This carries over into: 
INT. CANCUN HOTEL - JEFF AND AMY'S BATHROOM - DAY 
A rack with towels on it, a sink, a tub. Amy is crouched over the toilet, in underwear and a T-shirt, VOMITING. Her skin is bright red. Jeff is standing in the tub, freshly showered, drying himself, watching. her. His running clothes hang from a hook beside the door. 
JEFF You okay? Amy doesn't answer. She COUGHS, spits. JEFF (cont'd) You don't have to come, you know. 
AMY I'm fine. 
JEFF You don't look fine. 
AMY Thank you. That's very helpful. 
She pushes herself to her feet, flushes the toilet, steps to the sink, squeezes some toothpaste onto a toothbrush. 
Only half the seats are occupied: tourists with their packs and cameras-and hats. Little TVs hang from the ceiling. We MOVE slowly down the aisle, passing Jeff and Amy first. Amy is sound asleep, a camera hanging from her neck, a Panama hat in her lap. Jeff is beside her, bent low over a tour book, comparing its much more detailed map with the one Mathias's brother left behind. Next come Eric and Stacy, hunched together in their seats, watching a Mexican soap opera on the little TV above them. Stacy mimics the actors' exaggerated gestures, GIGGLING. Eric has the Cliff Notes for Hamlet in his lap, unopened. Finally, there's Mathias. The seat beside him is empty. He's staring out the window, his expression perfectly blank. 
EXT. COBA - DAY 
The town is very small: a dirt road lined with one- and two- story buildings, some with thatched roofs. There's a gravel turnaround, with a bus idling in it. Its door CREAKS open. A dozen tourists emerge from the bus, blinking in the sunlight. Jeff, Amy, Stacy, Eric, and Mathias are among them. The boys have the knapsacks; the girls are wearing matching hats. Amy rubs at her face, stretching, waking up.- There's a souvenir stand at the town's entrance, with brightly colored blankets hanging from its walls. The tourists start toward it, leaving Jeff and the others beside. the idling bus. They peer about, getting their bearings. 
ERIC Now what? Mathias has his brother's note. He holds it out, pointing, and they gather around him to look. 
MATHIAS We take a cab. To here. WE SEE the map: there's a line drawn from Cancun to Coba, where another, shorter line moves westward. Mathias's finger moves along this shorter line, toward the X on the map. 
ERIC How far? 
MATHIAS Eighteen kilometers. 
STACY How many miles is that? They all glance at Jeff. He shrugs. 
JEFF Eleven. A little more. 
MATHIAS Then there'll be a path. Which we hike--four kilometers. The others look to Jeff again. He slings his pack. 
JEFF Two and a half miles. 
The tourists are vanishing into the town. The bus's door SQUEAKS shut. 
ANY I don't see any cabs. The bus eases into motion, CRUNCHING across the gravel, pulling out onto the road. Behind it, a yellow pickup truck is revealed. "TAXI" is hand-painted in black on its side. They start toward the truck. Its DRIVER is Mayan: short and heavy-set, with thick glasses. His eyes are shut; he's dozing behind the wheel. The truck's engine.is running, the windows shut tight against the heat. Jeff TAPS the window, and there's a burst of movement from the truck's rear, as a dog springs up, BARKING and GROWLING. They all leap back, the girls SHRIEKING. The dog is a mutt--small, but muscular. He's attached to a cinder block by a short chain, which he throws himself against, slobbering, snapping at the air. They all stare at the dog; the girls LAUGH nervously, clutching each other. The driver has roused himself; he leans forward, rolls down his window, stares out at them. 
JEFF Hola. The man gives him a somber nod; the dog keeps BARKING. Jeff takes the map from Mathias, then steps warily forward. JEFF (cont'd) Habla ingles usted? The man half-nods, half-shrugs. JEFF (cont'd) How much to drive us to here? He offers the map to the driver, who reaches to take it. The man frowns at it. Then, in HEAVILY ACCENTED ENGLISH: 
DRIVER Why you go this place? Jeff struggles for a simple way to explain their mission. in the back of the truck, the dog continues its frantic BARRING. 
JEFF There are these ruins. This old mining camp? 
(MORE) 
JEFF (cont'd) (he points toward Mathias) And his brother--- 
DRIVER Fifteen dollar, I take you ruins. 
JEFF To here? Jeff points at the map. The driver shakes his head. 
DRIVER This place no good. He holds the map back out toward Jeff. Jeff takes it, gives the man a puzzled look. 
JEFF No good? 
DRIVER No good you go. Fifteen dollar I take you good place. You like, I promise. Jeff glances toward the others, as if for help. They all just stand there, watching. The dog won't stop BARRING. DRIVER (cont'd) I take you pyramid. Huy grande. Everyone happy. He smiles at Jeff; his teeth are large and thick-looking,. and black along the gums. Jeff pulls out his wallet. He removes a ten and a five, then points at the map. 
JEFF How about we pay you fifteen dollars to go here? He holds the money out. The man doesn't even look at it. 
DRIVER I tell you no good. Still you go? His smile has disappeared; he seems angry suddenly, as if Jeff has somehow insulted him. Jeff hesitates, glancing toward the others again. Then, in a CONCILIATORY TONE: 
JEFF We're looking for his brother. (he points toward Mathias) Su hermano? 
The driver wrenches the door open, making Jeff and the others flinch. He climbs out, still with that angry expression on his face, then leans into the back of the truck, grabs the dog's chain, unhooks it from the cinder block. He lifts the dog from the truck by the chain. Even dangling by its neck, the mutt continues to SNARL and snap at Jeff and the others. They back away, and the man tosses the dog into the truck's cab, pushing the door shut. The dog throws its body against the window, slobbering and BARKING. The man turns toward Jeff, wiping his hands on his pants. Jeff tries again: JEFF (cont'd) I'm sure your ruins are better than these. It's just that we-- The driver cuts him off, holding out his hand, with that same air of enraged disgust. 
DRIVER El dinero. Jeff gives him the money. Then the driver SLAPS the side of the truck, gestures for them to climb into the back. 
STACY So she signed up for lessons. 
ERIC But she couldn't afford them. Stacy reaches, taps Mathias's shoulder. 
STACY You can play, too. If you want. 
Mathias glances back at her. STACY (cont'd) It's easy. Someone says So, then you say But. It's like catch, only without a ball. (to Eric) So she got a job in a factory. 
ERIC But was fired for being late. Amy takes off her hat, wipes the sweat from her face. 
AMY It's annoying. 
STACY So she became a prostitute. 
AMY It's tedious and boring. And once they start, it's impossible to get them to stop. 
ERIC But she fell in love with her first client. Amy puts her hat back on. She looks hot, sweaty, tired. 
AMY How much farther? Mathias peers down at his brother's note. Stacy and Eric continue with their game. 
MATHIAS STACY We cross a stream. Then So she asked him to marry there'll be a path, branching her. off to our left. If we see a village, we've gone too far. AMY (cont'd) ERIC A village? But he was already married. 
MATHIAS STACY A Mayan village. So she begged him to get a divorce. AMY (cont'd) ERIC Will they have air But he was in love with his conditioning? wife. 
Mathias shrugs, returns the note to his pocket. 
MATHIAS STACY It just says there's a So she decided to kill her. village. AMY (cont'd) I think we should go see it. 
STACY Me, too. 
AMY I think we should--- Jeff stops suddenly, pointing. 
JEFF The stream. Thirty feet in front of them, the trail dips toward a small stream, studded with boulders. It resumes on the far bank, rising gradually uphill in a long straightaway. The stream is slow moving, the water dark brown. Eric SNIFFS the air. 
ERIC Fucking smells. 
JEFF They must use it as a latrine. 
ERIC Who? 
JEFF The village. The Mayans. They start toward it, gingerly, the girls covering their noses. Jeff crosses the stream, hopping from boulder to boulder, and the others follow. Stacy almost falls in; she only catches her balance at the final instant, YELPING. Jeff is already starting up the trail, searching for the turnoff. There's no sign of it; the dense foliage extends unbroken as far as the eye can see. He turns to Mathias. JEFF (cont'd) How far past the stream?. 
MATHIAS Right after, it says. 
They stand there in a loose group, staring at the trees. Eric pulls a bottle of water from his pack, takes a swallow, then passes it to Stacy. Amy lifts her arm, points. 
AMY Look. Up the trail, sixty feet away, stand two small Mayan boys; they seem to have materialized out of the air. They're ten years old, shirtless, scrawny, dark-haired. one of them is holding a bicycle by its handlebars; it doesn't have a seat. AMY (cont'd) Maybe they can guide us. Stacy smiles toward the boys; she waves, CALLS OUT: 
STACY 
HOLAL The boys just stand there, staring at them, silent, their expressions wary, even frightened. One of them leans to whisper something to the other, who nods. 
ERIC Why don't we-- He stops, noticing Mathias. The German is staring toward the edge of the trail, where a large bush sits. one of its fronds is very slowly dropping toward them, pulling itself free of the soil. Mathias steps forward, tugs at a second frond, which slips easily from the dirt. He tosses it aside, reaches for another frond: this, too, slips free. Someone has pushed them into the earth, arranging them to look like a bush. Mathias pulls a fourth frond free, then a fifth, and an opening is revealed in the brush, a narrow path winding its way off through the trees. They stand there a beat, staring at it. Then there's a SQUEAKING SOUND, and they all turn. 
AMY'S POV - UP THE TRAIL one of the boys is hurriedly pedaling off, bent low over the bicycle's handlebars. His companion remains behind, staring toward us with a look of obvious anxiety. 
AMY'S POV - THROUGH THE VIEWFINDER WE HEAR a click as she takes each photo, and the image freezes for an instant. There's the hillside, covered in its vine, its red flowers: CLICK. There's Eric pulling the water bottle from his pack: CLICK. There's Stacy smiling at us, waving: CLICK. There's Mathias shading his eyes, peering up the hill. 
AMY (O.S.} Smile, Mathias. 
MATHIAS Is that a tent? He points. 
BACK TO SCENE Amy lowers her camera, turns to look. 
AMY'S POV - UP THE HILL An orange square of fabric is just visible, at the very top of the hill, billowing, sail-like, in the breeze. From this distance, with the rise of the hill partly blocking the view, its hard to tell what it is. 
BACK TO SCENE They all stand there, peering up the hill. Faintly, but growing steadily louder, a THUDDING noise comes from the jungle. The five of them turn, heads cocked, listening. 
JEFF A horse. It's true: HOOFBEATS are approaching at a gallop. Instinctively, Jeff and the others back a handful of steps toward the hill. A long. beat, then a horseman bursts into the clearing, rearing to a halt. Amy lifts her camera. 
AMY'S POV - THROUGH THE VIEWFINDER A bald Mayan man is on the horse; he's broad-shouldered, short, in his early forties, dressed in a white shirt and pants. The horse rears a second time, and the image FREEZES for an instant, with a CLICK, as Amy snaps another picture. 
BACK TO SCENE The bald man SHOUTS at them in UNSUBTITLED MAYAN. His horse is lathered, SNORTING, rolling its eyes. It rears yet again, and the man half-falls, half-jumps to-the ground. Jeff and the others back a few more steps into the clearing. 
AMY'S POV - THROUGH THE VIEWFINDER The bald man is still holding the reins; the horse is backing away from him, jerking its head, trying to break free, pulling him, step-by-step, back toward the trail. CLICK. 
BACK TO SCENE The man can't gain control of the horse. Finally, he drops the reins, and the horse gallops into the jungle, CRASHING through the trees, its hoofbeats gradually diminishing. The man turns toward them, starts YELLING in MAYAN again, pointing back down the trail. Sweat shines on his forehead. There's a gun on his belt, a black pistol in a brown holster. Stacy is clutching Eric's arm, looking frightened. 
STACY What's he saying? 
ERIC Maybe he wants money? A toll or something? The Mayan continues SHOUTING, waving his arm. Jeff reaches into his pocket, pulls out his wallet, removes a twenty. 
JEFF Dinero? The man ignores the proffered bill, makes a shooing motion, waving them from the clearing. Mathias turns toward the hill, cups his hands around his mouth, SHOUTS: 
MATHIAS 
HENRICHI There's no response, just the orange fabric gently billowing. 
JEFF Why don't you hike up, see if you can find him? We'll try to sort this out. Mathias nods, starts across the clearing. The bald man SHOUTS at him in Mayan, and then, when Mathias doesn't stop, pulls his pistol from its holster, FIRES into the sky. Everyone flinches, half-ducking. Stacy SCREAMS. Mathias goes still. The man waves at him, YELLING in Mayan, and Mathias comes back, his hands raised, to join the others. HOOFBEATS are approaching from the jungle again. They come closer and closer, and suddenly two more horsemen burst into the clearing. They're younger than the bald mans in their twenties, dark-haired, muscular. One has a mustache. Their mounts are white-eyed, SNORTING, rearing, just like the bald man's. The two men jump to the ground, dropping their reins, and the horses immediately turn and gallop back into the jungle. Amy lifts her camera again. 
AMY'S POV - THROUGH THE VIEWFINDER The young men have bows slung across their chest, and quivers of thin, fragile-looking arrows. They question the bald man in MAYAN, very rapidly. He's still aiming his pistol at Mathias. A CLICK, and the image freezes for an instant. 
BACK TO SCENE As they continue to interrogate the bald man in MAYAN, the young men unsling their bows, each of them nocking an arrow. Reflexively, Jeff and the others retreat another handful of steps into the clearing. Mathias still has his hands raised. 
ERIC What the fuck? 
JEFF Quiet. 
ERIC 
THEY'RE-- 
JEFF Wait. Wait and see. Amy is a bit farther into the clearing than Jeff and the others. She keeps swinging her camera from them to the Mayans, trying to capture the whole scene in one shot. She's too close, though,-and she retreats another handful of steps. 
AMY'S POV - THROUGH THE VIEWFINDER Still backing up toward the hill; all of them but Stacy and Eric are in the frame now. The bald Mayan is still answering the young men's questions. He turns toward us suddenly, points his pistol directly at us,.starts to SHOUT. 
BACK TO SCENE Jeff and the others turn, too, staring at Amy in surprise. She's nearly at the far edge of the clearing, peering through her camera; she retreats another step. The young Mayans raise their bows, drawing them; the bald man keeps YELLING. 
JEFF 
AMY-- She takes another step; she's right up against the vines. 
AMY The mine? Jeff nods. A draft is rising from the hole, and it lifts off Amy's hat. She tries to catch it, but fumbles: the hat falls away from her. They all watch it vanish into the dark. Eric pulls out his phone, flips it open, almost absentmindedly: a nervous gesture. There's still no signal. He closes it, turns to survey the clearing, the empty tents. 
ERIC Now what? Jeff shrugs, waves past the shaft. The clearing ends just a few yards from them; 
then the vines resume, and in the midst of the vines is the path. It winds its way to the edge of the hilltop, vanishes over it. 
JEFF Keep going, I guess. Saying this, he slings his pack onto his shoulder. Then he starts forward, the others falling in behind him. 
EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY 
They pick their way down the trail. It's much steeper on this side; there are short stretches where they have to drop onto their rear ends and slide, one after another. It's after one of these that Jeff suddenly stops, staring. 
JEFF'S POV - THE BOTTOM OF THE HILL It looks as if the jungle has been chopped down all the way around the base of the hill, isolating it in a ring of barren soil. One of the Mayans has made his way along this cleared ground to the base of the trail. He's staring up at them. 
ERIC (O.S.) Fuck. The man slides his bow off his shoulder, nocks an arrow. He shakes his head at them, CALLS OUT in MAYAN, waves them away. 
BACK TO SCENE The five of them stand there, staring down at the man. 
STACY What do we do? Jeff shrugs, starts forward again. 
JEFF We'll see. The others hesitate, and then, one after another, resume their downward march. 
EXT. BASE OF THE HILL - DAY 
As they approach the clearing, the Mayan man YELLS what sounds like someone's name. 
A beat, then another bowman comes jogging into view. Jeff and the others stop at the bottom of the trail. They stand there, staring. The vine has invaded the clearing here. Ten feet in front of the path is one of those odd, knoll-like growths, knee-high, thick with flowers. The two Mayans are another twenty feet beyond it, in the center of the clearing, bows drawn. 
AMY So. Her skin is slick with sweat, and she's winded from the hike down. A third Mayan comes jogging toward them. He stops beside the other two, draws his bow. 
ERIC We should rush them. All at once. 
STACY Shut Up, Eric. 
ERIC Or go make shields. If we had some shields, we could-- He falls silent as another Mayan comes running toward them. along the clearing. This one is bearded, heavier than the others. And he's carrying a rifle. 
ANY Oh my god. Jeff is staring at the little isolated island of vines, ten feet in front of them--peering intently at it. 
STACY Let's go back up. Jeff takes a step forward into the clearing--slowly, warily. STACY (cont'd) I wanna go back. Jeff takes another step, edging toward the mound, his eyes on the Mayans, their raised weapons. They just watch him. 
ANY 
JEFF-- He ignores her, takes a third step, then a forth, which brings him to the mound of vines. He crouches, reaches into the tendrils, parting them. He grasps a stalk, tugs, pulls it free. WE SEE a tennis shoe, a sock, a man's shin. 
Jeff turns, stares at Mathias, who steps forward, crouches beside him, starts to pull at the vines, gently at first, then more aggressively, tearing them, the plant's sap shining on his skin, a low MOAN rising from his chest. Another shoe is revealed, another leg, a pair of jeans, a belt buckle, a black T-shirt. And then, finally: a young man's face, the flesh oddly eaten away, so that his cheekbone is visible, the white socket of his left eye. AMY (cont'd) Oh, no. Oh, Jesus. Jeff holds up his hand, silencing her. The Mayans stand there, in the center of the clearing, watching. Mathias has begun to rock slightly, that MOANING coming and going. Jeff touches his shoulder, WHISPERS: 
JEFF Easy. All right? Easy and slow. We'll stand up and we'll walk away. We'll walk back up the hill. The young man's T-shirt is stiff with dried blood. There are. three slender arrows impaled in his chest. 
MATHIAS It's my brother. 
JEFF I know. 
MATHIAS They killed him. Jeff nods, his hand still on Mathias's.shoulder; he squeezes. 
JEFF Shh. Not here. Up the hill, okay? Mathias is struggling to control his breathing; the MOANS keep coming. Finally, he manages a nod, and they both stand up. Stacy and Amy are holding hands, looking stricken. Stacy has started to CRY. Eric has his arm around her. The Mayans keep their weapons raised. They watch in silence as Jeff and the others turn to start back up the hill. 
BACK TO SCENE Stacy lifts the lamp, peering downward, struggling to see more clearly, and the sling suddenly jerks to a halt, making her SQUAWK. She looks up. 
STACY'S POV - ABOVE HER The CREAKING has stopped. We're swinging slowly back and forth. WE SEE Amy peering down toward us: a long way up, almost seventy feet. A beat, then Jeff appears, too. 
JEFF Stacy? His voice has an ECHO to it. 
BACK TO SCENE - STACY Her face is slick with sweat; it shines-in the lamp light. 
STACY What? 
JEFF (O.S.). It's the end of the rope. 
STACY I'm not at the bottom. 
JEFF (O.S.) Can you see him? Stacy looks down again, holding up the lamp, peering toward Mathias's motionless body. She lifts her head. 
STACY A little. 
JEFF (O.S.) Is he conscious? 
STACY I can't tell. I don't think so. 
JEFF (O.S.) How far are you above him? Stacy glances down once more, trying to quess,the distance. 
STACY Fifteen feet? (a beat) He's just lying there. She lifts her head again, peers upward. 
STACY'S POV - ABOVE HER The top of the shaft is empty. Very faintly, WE HEAR Jeff and the others talking, just their voices, not their words. 
STACY (O.S.) Jeff ... ? Jeff's head reappears. 
JEFF We have to figure out a way to lengthen the rope. We're gonna pull you up. He pulls his head away. 
BACK TO SCENE - STACY She's staring upward. 
STACY Wait! The rope has almost stopped its swaying. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING 
Jeff steps back to the hole, peers into it. So does Amy. Eric waits by the windlass. The rope is completely played out. Stacy SHOUTS, her voice ECHOING slightly: 
STACY (O.S.) I want to stay with him. 
JEFF You can't. We have to-- 
STACY (O.S.) I'll jump. Jeff glances at the others. Eric shakes his head. Jeff CALLS down to her:. 
JEFF We might not be able to make it longer. You'll be trapped. 
STACY (O.S.) What about him? We can't just leave him. 
JEFF We'll pull you up. Then we'll see. He starts toward the windlass again. 
ON STACY - IN THE SLING The rope jerks, and she begins to rise. She kicks her legs, lifts her left arm over head, wrenches it free of the sling, so that only her right arm remains hooked. She switches the lamp from her right hand to her left, then slips completely free of,the sling, the lamp fluttering out as she drops. 
THE BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT Almost totally dark, just a faint fall of light from above. Mathias is a dim shape on the floor of the shaft. Stacy lands beside him--heavily, awkwardly--the glass from his shattered lamp CRUNCHING beneath her. 
JEFF we can braid them--three strips for each section. Then knot the sections together, for strength. Before either of them can respond, Stacy's voice emerges from the shaft, sounding SCARED: 
STACY (O.S.) I think he broke his back. They fall silent, staring down at her. STACY (O.S.) (cont'd) He can't move his legs. And it smells. 
JEFF Smells? 
STACY (O.S.) Like he lost his bowels. His bladder. 
AMY (very quietly) Oh no. Please no. Jeff turns to her. 
JEFF How can we make a backboard? Amy starts to shake her head, looking horrified. 
AMY No, Jeff. No way. We can't move him. 
JEFF One of the frames from the backpacks? And the tent poles. There's tape in the orange tent. He doesn't wait for a response; he leans over the shaft, 
SHOUTS: JEFF (cont'd) We have to builda backboard, Stacy. It might take a while. 
There's a long hesitation, as if Stacy is searching for some alternative. Then, still sounding FRIGHTENED and FARAWAY: 
STACY (O.S.) Okay. Amy is shaking her head, growing FRANTIC: 
AMY We'll make it worse. Well jostle him, and he'll-- Jeff turns toward her, with a hint of EXASPERATION: 
JEFF We can't just leave him down there. You know that, don't you? She starts to back away, toward the edge of the clearing. 
AMY we have to tell them. 
JEFF Who? 
AMY The Mayans. We have to tell them what's happened. Jeff gives her an incredulous look. She keeps retreating; she's almost at the path. AMY (cont'd) They can send for help. 
JEFF They're not gonna--- 
AMY We have to may. We have to-- She spins, starts off at a run, vanishing down the trail. Jeff calls after her, SHOUTING: 
JEFF Amy! But she's gone. Jeff turns to Eric. JEFF (cont'd) Stay here. 
And then he, too, is running. 
EXT. CLEARING/BASE OF THE HILL - DAY 
The Mayans have established their campsite on the edge of the jungle. Two women are beside a campfire, plucking a pair of chickens. WE SEE other campsites in the distance, other campfires, hugging the jungle's margin, surrounding the hill. Three men sit in the center of the clearing, facing the hillside, their bows in their laps. They rise suddenly, peering up the trail. The women pause in their labor, also staring. The campsite goes QUIET. 
THE MAYANS' POV - UP THE HILL Amy is sprinting toward us down the trail. Jeff is ten yards behind her, also running. 
BACK TO SCENE The three Mayans nock arrows. Two other men step forward to join them. One has a bow; the other is the bald Mayan, with the pistol. He unholsters it, and--as Amy reaches the bottom of the trail--raises it, aiming at her chest. Amy stops just short of the clearing: sweating, breathless, scared-looking. She lifts her hands, palms-up, beseeching. 
AMY Help us. Please. Someone's been hurt. He-- Jeff comes to a halt, five feet behind her. 
JEFF They can't understand you. She turns, her voice quickened with PANIC: 
AMY Say it in Spanish. Tell them he-- 
JEFF They don't speak Spanish. 
MATHIAS. Show-me... So she leans, lifts the sleeping bag off him. His lower legs are completely covered by the flowering vine, from the knees down. Amy and Mathias both stare in surprise. Then Amy reaches, starts to yank the tendrils free. 
INT. ORANGE TENT - DAY 
Jeff is leaning forward, pressing the balled-up T-shirt against Stacy's wound, the blood darkening the fabric. Stacy is lying there, her eyes shut, fists clenched. 
STACY I can still feel it. 
Jeff shakes his head. 
JEFF I got it out. 
STACY I can feel it moving. 
JEFF That's just your body. Your muscle twitching. 
STACY 
BUTÂ€” 
ERIC It's on our clothes. Stacy and Jeff both glance at him. There's a faint, almost fungus-like green growing on his shirt, an infantile version of the vine covering the hillside all around them. It's on all of them: their shirts, their pants, their shoes. Before any of them can respond to this development, Amy starts to CALL from the clearing, sounding SCARED: 
AMY (O.S.) Jeff...? They all turn toward the flap. Mathias begins to SCREAM. Amy's voice JUMPS in volume: AMY (O.S.) (cont'd) of .I Jeff rises, moves toward the flap. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
Amy is crouched over Mathias, frantically yanking the vines off him. Mathias is struggling impotently to sit up. He continues to SCREAM, staring down at his legs. Jeff emerges-from the tent, hurries to help Amy, both of them tearing at the vine, a flash of white appearing beneath the green, shiny and bright: bones. Mathias's legs have been stripped completely clean of flesh from the knee down. As they keep pulling the tendrils free, blood starts to drip from Mathias's knees, slowly at first, but then suddenly spurting, spraying them: their chests, their faces. Amy jerks backward, GAGGING, RETCHING. 
She jumps up, takes three steps into the center of the clearing, and VOMITS, her hands on her knees. She wipes at the blood on her face, COUGHS, spits, then bends again, another long ribbon of puke slipping free of her. Mathias continues to SCREAM and thrash. Jeff reaches for the belts, lying in the dirt beside the backboard. He quickly ties first one then another around Mathias's legs, twisting them into tourniquets, cutting off the flow of blood. Stacy and Eric stoop out through the tent's flap: they stand there staring, struggling to grasp what's happened. Stacy is in her underwear and T-shirt, blood still seeping down her leg. Amy turns to face them. Mathias is WEEPING now, his eyes shut. The hemorrhaging has stopped; blood lies in puddles across the backboard. Jeff is covered with it. And then there are the bones: so white, so wet-looking, from the knees down, nothing but bone. Suddenly, Stacy starts to SCREAM, pointing past Amy, at the dirt beyond her. They all turn to look. The vine is in motion, a long tendril slipping into the clearing, moving snakelike toward the puddle of vomit at Amy's feet. Amy backs quickly away. A second tendril emerges from the low wall of green around the clearing, then a third. They move rapidly, as if racing each other; both of them slipping alongside the first into the little pool of vomit. The tendrils absorb the puke, draining it, until all that's left is a damp shadow on the rocky soil. Then they withdraw back across the clearing, silently retreating into the larger mass of green. Stacy keeps SCREAMING. 
EXT. CLEARING/BASE OF THE HILL - DAY 
Faintly, from up the hill, WE HEAR Stacy's screams. The Mayans are finishing their morning meal. They eat in silence, showing no reaction to the sound. In the clearing, the young Mayan's corpse is buried beneath a thick growth of vine. 
EXT.. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
The four of them are sitting by the orange tent. Jeff and Amy are still spattered and smeared with Mathias's blood; Stacy is still in her underwear. 
e.- Jeff is inventorying their food and water. The others watch as he puts the perishables in a separate pile: two bananas, a plastic bag ofgrapes going brown, an orange, a soggy tuna fish sandwich. 
JEFF They must've dug it up. 
ANY Who? He arranges the rest of the food in a second pile: a bag of pretzels, a can of nuts, two protein bars, a box of raisins. 
JEFF The miners. He puts the liquids in a third pile: three bottles of water, two of iced tea, a can of Coke. That's all there is. JEFF (cont'd) And then the Mayans cleared the jungle around the hill, I guess. To keep it quarantined. That's why they won't let us leave, don't you think? They're afraid we'll spread it? The others are silent. Jeff reaches for the tuna fish sandwich. He carefully unwraps it. JEFF (cont'd) Or else...I don't know. Maybe it's something religious? And we're some sort of sacrifice? He glances at the others, but once again no one responds. They all look dazed: knocked back into themselves. Jeff picks up the knife, wipes it on his jeans. JEFF (cont'd) They must've done the same thing with the archaeologists. And Henrich. Trapped them here. Like us. He cuts the sandwich into four equal sections. JEFF (cont'd) And then somehow it killed them off. All of them. one by one. This is too much for Eric; he.leaps up, looking panicky. 
J011 
ERIC We have to find the phone. We have to go back down and-- Jeff makes a calming motion. 
JEFF We'll eat first. Drink some water. We have to stay calm. Not rush at things. He holds out one of the tiny squares of sandwich. Eric hesitates, then accepts it, dropping back into a crouch. Jeff hands Amy her square. 
AMY What about Mathias? She nods toward him, and they all turn to look. From his knees down, Mathias's legs are nothing but bone, tendon, and ropy clots of blackened blood. His face looks gray. His eyes are shut, and his breathing sounds terribly RAGGED. 
JEFF He wouldn't be able to stomach it. Jeff offers Stacy her ration. She takes it, but almost absentmindedly. She seems distracted; she keeps prodding at her wound with her fingertip. JEFF (cont'd) Stop it, Stacy. 
STACY It's moving. I can feel it moving. 
ERIC You're imagining it. You're scared, and you-- 
STACY I gotta get out of here. I gotta get to a hospital. I gotta-- Eric takes her hand, squeezing it. Stacy blinks at him, close to tears. 
ERIC You have to calm down. Can you do that? Can you try to calm down? Stacy pulls free of him, drops into a crouch, hugging her knees to her chest, her eyes shut. 
STACY See if there's a signal. 
ERIC A what? 
STACY Your phone. Check your phone. Eric doesn't move: he knows there's no point. STACY (cont'd) Check it. Eric SIGHS, steps to his pack, crouches to remove his phone. He flips it open, holds it out to Stacy. She stares down at it: there's no signal. Eric drops it back into his pack. Then he turns to Jeff. 
ERIC We go back down. We find the other phone. We call for help. That's how we get out of here. That's how we save him. 
JEFF It'11 take too long. 
ERIC One call, Jeff. They'll be here by sundown. 
JEFF And Mathias will already be dying. You understand? There's no flesh covering his bones. They're-- Mathias's voice interrupts him, from the backboard. Very HOARSE, barely audible: 
MATHIAS Do...it... They all turn, stare toward him. His eyes are open. MATHIAS (cont'd) Please... (a beat) Cut... them... off... He slowly, painfully, extends his left hand toward them, a beseeching gesture. 
CU - SMALL PILE OF CLOTHES A pair of shorts, a woman's blouse, two black socks. 
JEFF (O.S.) I'll have to break the bones first. An amber liquid is being poured onto the clothes, very slowly. WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL: 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
Eric is crouched, dribbling the tequila onto the clothes, pausing to let it soak in, saturating the fabric. Jeff is kneeling by the backboard, talking to Mathias. 
JEFF With the stone. Then I'll use the knife to cut. A large stone sits beside the pile of clothes, shaped like an ax head. There's the knife, too, and the metal canteen from the orange tent. JEFF (cont'd) We'll heat the canteen, and cauterize the wounds with it. To stop the bleeding. Eric strikes a match: the clothes catch instantly, burning with a low blue flame. He sets the knife in the fire, then the stone, and splashes more tequila on them. The girls stand in the center of the clearing, watching. JEFF (cont'd) You shouldn't be able to feel a thing. But you can bite this if you want. Just in case. He holds up one of the belts. Mathias hesitates, then opens his mouth, and Jeff sets it carefully inside. Mathias clamps down, gripping it between his teeth. Jeff glances at Eric. JEFF (cont'd) Ready? Eric nods.- The stone is making a cracking sound in the fire, glowing a.deep red. Jeff turns back to Mathias. JEFF (cont'd) You? Mathias also nods, shutting his eyes. There's a small towel in the dirt beside Jeff, and he. picks it up, wrapping it around his hand. He looks over his shoulder at the girls. They both seem terrified, shaky with it. 
JEFF (cont'd) You should wait in the tent. Amy starts to shake her head, but then Stacy is in motion, grabbing her hand, pulling her across the clearing, and she lets herself be led. Jeff watches them vanish through the flap, then reaches toward the fire with his towel-swathed hand. He scoops up the stone, raises it over his head, SLAMS it down with all his strength against the exposed bones of Mathias's left leg. Mathias bucks, GROANING; his eyes jump open. Jeff drops the stone back into the fire,. snatches out the knife. Mathias is trying to rise onto his elbow, straining to see what's happening. JEFF (cont'd) Hold him. Eric sets the canteen into the flames, sloshes some tequila on it, then shifts.to the backboard. He presses down on Mathias''s shoulders. Mathias is WHIMPERING, twisting his head back and forth, gripping the belt tightly in his teeth. Jeff starts to saw with the knife, chopping and cutting the splintered bones. Bloody marrow spills wetly out, and then Mathias's.lower leg comes free of his body, the foot and ankle and shin bones completely separate now. Jeff lifts the bones away, drops them into the dirt beside the backboard. Then he turns, uses the towel to pluck the canteen out of the fire: it, too, is glowing red. He presses the canteen flat against Mathias's stump, the flesh SIZZLING and SPITTING. Mathias bucks even more forcefully; he spits out the belt, CRIES OUT: 
MATHIAS Stop...stop... Jeff ignores him, dropping the canteen back into the fire, lifting out the stone. Eric looks increasingly mortified; he seems close to tears. 
ERIC 
JEFF-- 
JEFF Reep him still. He turns, SMASHES the stone into Mathias's right leg. Mathias begins to SCREAM, bucking against Eric's grip. 
INT. ORANGE TENT - DAY 
Mathias's SCREAMS fill the tent. Amy and Stacy are sitting together, clutching each other; Stacy is CRYING. Amy is staring toward the flap with a look of horror. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
Jeff saws and chops at the shattered bones with the knife. Mathias continues'to SCREAM. Eric is using all his weight to hold him still, his head averted, his eyes clenched shut. Jeff lifts the severed bones.away from the backboard, drops them at his side. Then he scoops up the canteen again. As he presses it to Mathias's stump, Mathias finally passes out, his body going slack, his screams falling SILENT. For a long beat, there's just the SPITTING, SNAPPING sound of Mathias's flesh being seared. Then Eric pulls back into a crouch, shaking his head, looking utterly depleted. 
ERIC Oh, Jesus. Jesus Christ. Amy emerges from the tent, then Stacy. They stand staring. 
AMY He felt it, didn't he? The whole thing. Jeff lifts the canteen away. 
ERIC Come on, man. She's too scared. 
JEFF I don't give a fuck. I'm scared, too. We all are. 
ERIC it was inside her. 
JEFF And we got it out. Now she needs to stop being such a fucking baby, stop being so selfish, and-- Eric is stepping toward him suddenly, right up against him, forcing him back a step. 
ERIC ,hut Up. Okay? He's bigger than Jeff, stronger, and this is suddenly very palpable. Their faces are three inches apart. A tense beat, and then, more QUIETLY: ERIC (cont'd) You're being too hard. Jeff gives him a look of incredulity, almost disgust. 
JEFF Hard? 
ERIC Just leave her be. Jeff turns away from him, from all three of them. He stares off across the hill for a beat, then shakes his head. 
JEFF I'm the only one thinking. I'm carrying the whole fucking load. 
ERIC So stop. Lay it down. Jeff turns back to him, gives him a look of pure contempt; WE can HEAR his fury rising again as he speaks: 
JEFF This isn't just going to work out on its own, Eric. You know? Magically? 
ERIC I'm not saying-- 
JEFF We could end up dead here. All of us. Is that what you want? 
ERIC Of course not. 
JEFF Then get the fuck out of my way, and start helping me. He holds Eric's eyes long enough to confirm that Eric isn't going to protest, then he glances past him at Stacy. JEFF (cont'd) You going or not? Stacy-is still staring at the ground, her hand probing at her chest. It's clear she doesn't want to go, but Jeff has shamed her into silence. Amy reaches, touches her arm. 
AMY .'-11 be right there. Okay? We'll be together the whole time. A long beat, then Stacy manages a nod. It's enough for Jeff; he pushes past Eric, moving toward the windlass. 
JEFF Get in the sling, Amy. Amy turns, reaching for the sling. 
EXT. BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT - DAY 
A faint fall of light from above. There's the CREAKING of the windlass: Amy is dropping slowly toward us. When her feet touch the bottom of the shaft, she scrambles out of the sling. Then she lifts her head, SHOUTS: 
AMY Pull it up! The CREAKING resumes. She stands there in the dimness, watching the sling rise away from her. She has the makeshift torch in one hand, the box of matches in the other. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING 
Eric is helping Stacy into the sling, pulling it over her head; Stacy's hands are shaking badly. Eric hugs her, trying to calm her. Jeff waits beside the hand crank. 
THE BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT Amy is in a crouch. She keeps glancing toward the stone arch cut into the shaft's wall, and the passageway beyond it: the vine dangles from.the low ceiling, like streamers at a party. The CREAKING resumes, and Amy looks up. 
AMY'S POV - ABOVE HER Stacy is dropping slowly toward us. 
BACK TO SCENE Amy glances toward the arch again. A slight draft blows steadily from it, and the vine shifts and trembles in it. A beat, then the RINGING starts up once more. It's coming from within the shadowed passageway. Amy opens the box of matches, plucks one out. She's too jumpy, though; her hands are-trembling so much that she shakes the match out as soon as it's lit. There's a second RING. Stacy has nearly reached us. Amy digs another match from the box. Stacy's feet touch the bottom of the shaft; she yanks off the sling. There's a third RING. 
STACY Hurry. Amy strikes the match, holds it to the knot of clothing at the end of the aluminum pole. The alcohol catches with a FLUTTERING sound, a cloud of pale blue fire materializing around the torch. Amy lifts it, and they start into: 
THE UNDERGROUND PASSAGE Stacy is in front, with Amy right behind her. The torch shudders weakly in the steady draft; the shaft's ceiling is low enough that they have to crouch as they move forward. There's a fourth RING, drawing them deeper down the passage. 
The tendrils hanging from the ceiling brush against them. The vine is growing on the floor, too--knee-deep--and from the walls on either side. Amy is moving cautiously, squinting into the darkness, and Stacy starts to pull ahead. 
AMY Wait... She pauses, lifting the torch, but Stacy keeps going. Amy peers at the vine hanging from the wall. There's a fifth RING, echoing eerily, and the flowers move in exact unison with the sound, their stamens vibrating, like so many miniature tuning forks: the plant is making the noise. AMY (cont'd) Stacy... The shaft dead-ends at a blank wall, which is just materializing out of the darkness, fifteen feet in front of them. There's a sixth RING. Stacy points at the wall, quickening her pace. 
AMY So she became a lifeguard instead. (she squeezes Stacy's 
HAND) Come on. Your turn. More SOBS. Amy glances across the clearing at Jeff, wanting him to join in, too. It seems as if he might refuse, but then her look hardens, and he relents. 
JEFF But she couldn't swim. 
AMY So she wore a life vest. (she squeezes Stacy's hand 
AGAIN) Come on. Now you. A beat, then Stacy takes a deep, ragged breath. She wipes at her face, struggles for words. 
STACY But everyone... She trails off, CRYING again. Amy nods, encouraging her. 
AMY Yeah...? Everyone what? 
STACY They laughed at her. 
AMY Good. That's good. So she-- Very suddenly, it starts to rain--a dozen large, heavy drops. They all glance skyward. 
JEFF 
SHITÂ€¢ He springs to his feet. And then: a downpour, a deluge, as if a trap door has swung open in the clouds. The rain falls in a loud, drumming rush, turning the clearing to mud. Eric jumps up, too. He and Jeff start digging through the backpacks from the. blue tent, searching for something-- anything--in which to catch the water. They find a small plastic bag, a nylon toiletry kit, a Frisbee. Jeff sets these in a row on the ground, open to the rain. Eric rushes to the orange tent, vanishes inside. Amy tilts back her head, tries to catch the rain in her open mouth. Stacy just sits there, hugging herself, shivering, still half- crying. They're all drenched, back-spattered with mud. And then, as abruptly as it had begun, the rain starts to slacken. Eric reemerges from the orange tent, carrying a thermos, a plastic cup. He sets them next to the other containers, but it's pointless; the rain is already stopping. They all stare at these meager receptacles: they've managed to catch less than half an inch of muddy-looking water. Jeff. GROANS; he's FURIOUS with himself: 
JEFF (cont'd) We should've been ready. We 
SHOULD'VE- He kicks the Frisbee across the clearing. Amy jumps up. 
AMY 
JEFFT She steps forward, as if to guard the other containers. 
JEFF It doesn't fucking matter. 
AMY There was water in it. He spins toward her, turning his fury with himself on her: 
JEFF How much, Amy? Two and a half gallons? 'Cause that's what we need. For today--just to make it through today. And then tomorrow the same all over again. And for how long? Another week before our parents start searching? And then what? How long till they track us to Coba? Or to this fucking hill? How long will it take, Amy? 
AMY You said-- 
JEFF It's not gonna happen. We're not gonna make it. The others stare at him in astonishment, too 'stunned to speak. He gives them all a look of disgust: JEFF (cont'd) And you're fucking playing games. (mimicking Amy's voice) So there were these people trapped in the jungle. 
AMY Don't, Jeff. 
JEFF But they didn't have any water. 
Amy looks as if she might start crying. 
AMY Please, don't. 
JEFF So they're gonna die of thirst. Amy covers her ears with her hands. 
AMY Shut up! 
JEFF But this fucking vine might kill them first. 
AMY 
INTO-- 
STACY It's growing. 
JEFF of ina's.inside you. You're imagining it, and you just-- 
STACY I'm gonna end up like her. That girl. I'm gonna-- 
r - 
JEFF Get infected. Understand? You're gonna get yourself killed. 
STACY You're not listening. 
JEFF 
BECAUSE-- 
STACY (shouting, very loud) 
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING! A beat of startled silence, and then her voice comes again, from across the hilltop, sounding exactly like her, only slightly fuzzed, a rasping quality just beneath the words: 
STACY'S VOICE 
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING! They all turn to look, but there's nothing there, just the vine, its green leaves, its bright red flowers. Stacy's voice comes once more, from the.opposite direction now: STACY'S VOICE (cont'd) 
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING! 
ERIC What the-- Stacy's voice keeps coming, switching locations, seeming to float across the hilltop; they turn, tracking it. 
STACY'S VOICE 
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING...! YOU'RE 
NOT LISTENING...! YOU'RE NOT 
LISTENING...! Amy steps toward Jeff, looking frightened. 
AMY The Mayans. 
JEFF (shaking his head) No--it's the vine. It's mimicking her. Stacy has started to CRY; she covers her ears with her hands. 
STACY Make it stop. 
STACY'S VOICE 
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING...! YOU'RE 
NOT LISTENING...! YOU'RE NOT 
LISTENING...! 
STACY Please. Make it stop. 
STACY'S VOICE 
AMY Jeff said it. He said-- Eric reaches, puts his arm around her, trying to quiet her. 
ERIC He didn't mean it. There's no way. He was just-- 
AMY We might not have... 
ERIC Shh. Don't. She rests her head on his shoulder, WEEPING, her body shaking with it, while he pats her, stroking her hair. 
INT. ORANGE TENT - NIGHT 
Stacy and Jeff, eyes shut, sleeping. Very SOFTLY, there comes a faint PANTING, rhythmic, furtive sounding. Stacy's eyes open; she lies there, listening. There's a MOAN, and the PANTING QUICKENS. Stacy rises to a sitting position. She listens for another beat, then leans, prods at Jeff. He awakes with a jerk, blinking up at her. 
JEFF Wh--? Stacy holds her finger to her lips, silencing him.. From outside, there's another MOAN. Jeff sits up, listening. The PANTING is BUILDING toward a climax. Jeff leans toward the pile of supplies at the tent's rear, squinting at the tangle of vine growing across it. He points, WHISPERING: JEFF (cont'd) It's the-- But Stacy is already pushing herself to her feet. She moves quickly to the tent's flap, UNZIPS it, crouches out into: 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - NIGHT 
Mathias's breathing continues its RAGGED course. Amy is still leaning into Eric, her head on his shoulder. He has his arm around her. He looks up, blinking, as Stacy emerges from the tent into the moonlight. 
. STACY What the fuck, Eric? Amy lifts her head, wipes at her face; Eric drops his arm from her shoulder. They both stare at Stacy, startled by her anger. Jeff appears behind her, stepping through the flap. 
ERIC What? 
STACY We heard you. 
ERIC Heard me what? 
STACY Fucking her. 
Eric looks from Stacy to Jeff, completely perplexed. 
ERIC What're you talking about? 
JEFF The vine. it made it sound as if you two-- Stacy turns toward him, SNORTING, shaking her head. 
STACY You're so blind. 
JEFF I could hear it. At the back of the tent. It was-- 
STACY It doesn't make things up. It mimics things. Things it's heard. 
JEFF Then it's heard someone having sex at some point. Slowly, quietly, a tendril has begun to slither forward through the darkness, creeping in beneath the lean-to, snaking toward Mathias, toward his head. Jeff and the others are all too focused on one another to notice. 
STACY That was Ay, Jeff. Moaning. 
AMY What? Jeff reaches, touches Stacy's arm, struggling to calm her, but she flinches from him. 
JEFF it's doing this on purpose.' Can't you see? It thinks you're the weakest--because you're hurt. So it's trying to upset you. Trying 
TO-- 
STACY You're not upset? He had his arm around her. He-- Amy leans forward, hands out, BESEECHING: 
AMY Nothing happened, Stacy. I was crying. And Eric-- 
STACY We he-ar you. The vine starts to push its way in between Mathias's lips, into his mouth. Mathias makes a GAGGING sound, but doesn't regain consciousness: once more, no one notices. 
JEFF You'll have to lift him. Eric hesitates; he seems reluctant to touch the corpse. Finally, he girds himself, straddles the backboard, grabs Mathias under his armpits, lifting him. Jeff leans forward, starts to pull the sleeping bag over Mathias's head. The corpse seems intent upon resisting them; its arms keep getting tangled, catching and snagging. Jeff and Eric have to wrestle with it, both of them PANTING, sweating, before they manage to shove it into the bag. Jeff ZIPS the bag shut, and they stand over it, catching their breath, wiping the perspiration from their faces. 
ERIC Should we say something? 
Jeff gives him a blank stare. ERIC (cont'd) Like, you know ...a prayer? Jeff frowns down at the bag, searching for words. Before he can find them, Stacy speaks: 
STACY Where's the knife? They all turn. Her hand is under her tattered shirt, pressing at her lower back. Jeff SIGHS: 
JEFF 
STACY-- She lifts her shirt, twisting to show him. it looks as if a large starfish has been implanted just beneath her skin. It's moving, too, inching slowly but visibly downward. They all stare in astonishment. Amy GASPS, points at Stacy's leg. Stacy bends to see: there's more vine here, a snakelike lump winding its way upward from the top of her shin to her inner thigh. 
CU - FIRE Another small pile of clothes, burning with that blue, alcohol-fueled flame. 
AMY (O.S.) Can I give her some? The knife is placed in the fire, and WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL: 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
Amy holds up the bottle of tequila. Jeff is crouching over the fire, heating the knife's blade. Be glances toward her, nods. Stacy is sitting down, staring at the bulge in her leg with a dazed expression. Eric is beside her. Amy offers the bottle to Stacy;-they all watch as she takes a long swallow. Then she hands the bottle back to Amy, and Jeff pulls the knife from the fire, carries it toward her. He gestures to Eric and Amy. 
JEFF Hold her hands. 
They each take one of her hands. Jeff crouches over her leg. JEFF (cont'd) You might want to shut your eyes. Stacy shakes her head. 
STACY I want to see. Jeff hesitates; for a moment it seems-as if he might argue. But then, very quickly, he leans forward and draws the knife in one smooth movement up and around Stacy's leg. Stacy MOANS, her body tensing, but she doesn't cry out. The incision reveals the vine, a foot long, its leaves and flowers clotted with Stacy's blood, which is oozing from the wound. Jeff reaches in, pries the tendril from her flesh. Stacy MOANS again, arching backward, as the vine emerges: writhing and twisting. The blood comes more thickly now, pumping from the wound, running down her leg. Jeff drops the tendril into the dirt, steps on it, grinding it into stillness. Stacy is breathing HARD, almost hyperventilating. She's shut her eyes. 
JEFF Should I stop? Stacy shakes her head, vehemently. Jeff glances at the others. Eric shakes his head, too. Amy's eyes, like Stacy's, are tightly shut. JEFF (cont'd) You'll have to roll over. Stacy lets go of the others' hands, rolls onto her stomach. She hitches up her shirt, revealing the small of her back, the starfish-shaped bulge. Jeff crouches at her side. JEFF (cont'd) Ready? She nods, and he leans, makes five quick incisions, in the shape of an asterisk, directly above the bulge. Stacy's body goes rigid, and Eric takes her hand again. Once more, we can see the tendril through the incision: dark with her blood. Jeff reaches in and slowly pulls the vine from her body. There's an astonishing amount of it; he has to drop the knife and use both hands to drag the slimy mass free. 
As the plant emerges from her body--thrashing, coiling and uncoiling, covered in half-clotted blood, like a newborn-- Stacy starts to SCREAM. 
EXT. CLEARING/BASE OF THE HILL - DAY 
The Mayans at their campsite: three of them on guard duty, the others napping in the shade beneath the trees. Stacy's SCREAMING echoes down the hill toward us. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
They've pulled a shirt from one of the backpacks, torn it into strips, and used these to bandage Stacy's wounds, tying them around her leg and torso. She's lying on her side, eyes shut, her head in Eric's lap. He's stroking her hair. Jeff is counting the grapes into four separate piles. Amy sits watching him. When he finishes, he gestures for her to take a pile. Then he scoops Stacy and Eric's rations up, carries them over. 
JEFF Can you eat? Stacy sits up, wincing; her bandages are soaked through with blood. She takes the grapes from him; Eric does, too. They- all begin to eat, in silence. When they're done, Jeff passes the water bottle around their circle. Then: JEFF (cont'd) We should try to rest, I guess. (he waves toward the tent) Get out of the sun. We're losing moisture out-- 
STACY There's more of it. She leans forward, probes at her right thigh, prodding the skin. The others watch her; there's no bulge visible, no sign of the vine-at all. Eric gives her a pained look. 
ERIC There's nothing there, Stacy. 
STACY It's under the muscle. Down by the bone. 
She keeps pushing at her leg. She glances from Eric to Amy to Jeff. No one says anything. STACY (cont'd) Cut me and see. Right here. She uses her finger to draw a line up her thigh. 
JEFF You're losing too much blood. And if any of these get infected--- 
STACY My calf, too. she lifts her right leg, turning it to show the others. Jeff bends to look. Again, there's no visible sign of the vine. He shakes his head. 
JEFF No more cutting. Not unless--- The knife is in the dirt beside him, and Stacy leans forward, tries to grab it. Jeff is too quick for her, though: he snatches it up, tucks it into his belt. Stacy is becoming more and more upset. She holds out her hands, BEGGING: 
STACY Please, Jeff. 
JEFF Easy. Try to-- Stacy clutches at Amy, begging, her voice HOARSE with pain: 
STACY Kill me. I can't She stops in mid-sentence, staring. Jeff and Amy follow her gaze. A half dozen tendrils are snaking into the clearing, reaching toward Eric's body. Jeff jumps to his feet. The tendrils begin to wrap themselves around Eric's limbs, and Jeff bends to tear them away. More and more keep coming, though. Eric has started to convulse, GAGGING, his head cocked back. Jeff keeps yanking the tendrils away, but there are far too many of them; they coil around Eric's legs, pulling at him. The blood has stopped pumping from his wound; his body has gone still. 
AMY Jeff I She points toward the tent. Jeff turns to see. 
JEFF'S POV - ACROSS THE CLEARING The sleeping bag in which they'd enshrouded Mathias is moving: he's thrashing about within it, struggling to sit up. And he's SHOUTING, too, his voice MUFFLED by the bag: 
MATHIAS'S VOICE 
HENRICH...! HENRICH...! He seems to be tearing at the bag with his arms. 
BACK TO SCENE Jeff hesitates just for an instant, staring in astonishment, then he's sprinting across the clearing. He bends, struggles for the zipper. 
JEFF It's okay. I'm right here. I'm-- He UNZIPS the bag, and an immense tangle of vine cascades out onto the dirt. Its flowers are a pale pink; they're opening and closing, still calling, louder now: 
MATHIAS' S VOICE 
HENRICH...! HENRICH...! The thick clot of tendrils writhes spasmodically, coiling and uncoiling. 
Entwined within it are Mathias's bones, already stripped clean of flesh. The vine falls SILENT. A beat, then it starts to laugh, a low mocking CHUCKLE. On the opposite side of the little clearing, Stacy begins to SCREAM, shaking her head, SOBBING. 
STACY 
KILL ME...! KILL ME...! Jeff stands there, perfectly still. Amy is holding Stacy, struggling unsuccessfully to quiet her: 
AMY Shh. Shh. The vine's laughter grows steadily. LOUDER, punctuated by Stacy's SHOUTS: 
STACY 
KILL ME...! KILL ME...: Amy turns, stares at Jeff. Blood is running off Stacy's body in strings. The vine has dragged Eric to the edge of the clearing; only his head and torso are still visible. Jeff strides toward him. STACY (cont'd) 
KILL ME...! KILL ME...! Jeff bends, yanks the knife from Eric's chest. Then he starts across the clearing toward Stacy. 
EXT. CLEARING/BASE OF THE HILL - DAY 
The Mayans in their campsite. They're all staring up the hill, listening. Stacy's voice ECHOES toward us: 
STACY (O.S.) 
KILL ME...! KILL ME...I KILL-- And then, abruptly, it goes SILENT. 
EXT. HILLTOP - THE CLEARING - DAY 
Amy sits beside Stacy, who lies on her back in the puddle of blood, arms thrown out, the knife stuck hilt-deep in her chest. Eric's body is barely visible at the edge of the clearing; the vine RUSTLES softly as it consumes him. 
Jeff is pulling their remaining supplies from his knapsack: the bananas, the raisins, the pretzels, the protein bars, the nuts, the water, iced tea, and Coke. He has a bloody strip of fabric tied around the wound on his hand. Amy watches as he arranges the food in front of her. She's CRYING silently, tears running down her dirt-smeared cheeks. Jeff peels one of the bananas: it's dark brown, far too ripe. He holds it out to her. She just stares at it. 
JEFF Come on. You'll need the energy. He reaches for her hand, puts the banana in it. She holds the fruit, but makes no move to eat. Finally, VERY QUIETLY: 
AMY I still think we should wait. Jeff SIGHS: it's clear they've already been through this. 
JEFF You'll only get weaker. 
AMY They'll come looking. You said 
