R U N A W A Y   B R I D E 
Screenplay by Sarah Parriott & Josann McGibbon 
FADE IN 
EXT. AN IMPOSSIBLE EXPANSE OF MARYLAND FARMLAND - DAY 
The wind rustles the endless field of corn, blows over the freshly mown meadow of soybeans, and magically sways a copse of trees. 
It's a Fall after-noon. A SUDDEN POUNDING OF GALLOPING HOOVES breaks the peace and... A HORSE and RIDER burst between the rows of corn into the meadow.  They are running for their lives. 
CLOSE ON: 
The rider is a bride -- a beautiful woman dressed in a disheveled wedding gown, it's train tattered and flying like a knight's banner out behind her. This is MAGGIE CARPENTER. 
The horse is frothing and wild-eyed, like the bride, who turns to look behind her in terror.  The horse's labored breathing mingles with Maggie's panicked gasps. 
We see a WEDDING BOUQUET fly into a ditch as the horse thunders on.  Maggie clings to the reins.  She looks as though she is running from the devil himself. 
FADE TO BLACK 
EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 
Establishing. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY 
IKE (V.O.) Hey, Fisher, pick up.  I have some column ideas I want to bounce off you. Not there?  Okay.  Listen I'm thinking of writing about those mind-numbing informercials that are always on. 
Ike walks out of his apartment building talking on cell phone. 
IKE (cont'd) What do you think?  Good idea, right? Boring, down to death, pointless -- It sucks. 
Ike yells at a CONSTRUCTION WORKER. 
IKE (cont'd) If you guys are here any longer, they're gonna make you sign a lease. 
CONSTRUCTION WORKER Your column should be so funny. 
Ike turns and walks down the street, talking into cell phone. 
IKE Okay, I was also thinking I might write about... 
He spots a RICH LADY with tons of diamonds getting out of a Limousine, talking to a CHAUFFEUR.  He goes up to her. 
IKE (cont'd) Excuse me.  I was thinking of doing an article on limousines.  What would you say to people who never had a chance to drive in a limo? 
They walk up to her DOORMAN. 
LADY I'm sorry, I don't know any people like that. 
Ike walks off.  They stare at him as he goes. 
EXT. ANOTHER NEW YORK STREET - DAY 
Ike's talking on the phone to his friend's machine again. 
IKE (into phone) Fisher?  Come on -- I know you're sitting there laughing at me.  Pick up. I want to run an idea past you. 
Ike continues walking now in the full panic of writer's block. He pleads into his friend's answering machine as he walks. 
IKE (cont'd) (into phone) I just could use someone to toss it back and forth with for a few minutes, get the juice flowing, help me.  I have an hour and twenty-seven minutes and fifty-two seconds.  Hello? 
He walks away from the t-shirt table towards the bar.  The Vendor calls out to him. 
T-SHIRT VENDOR Hey, Ike, when are you going to put me in an article? 
IKE When your t-shirts stop shrinking. 
Ike enters the bar.  The Woman drops the shirt she was holding and walks off with her children.  The T-shirt Vendor goes back to selling his shirts. 
INT. NEW YORK BAR - LATE DAY 
Ike sits at the bar speaking to an attractive Woman nearby, a MAN puts is USA Today on the bar and addresses the BARTENDER. 
MAN I see photos of a lot of dead writers on these walls.  Got any living ones? I have a story to tell that could win one of them a Pulitzer. (then, with enthusiasm) Picture this, if you will.  A small town in Maryland, a sleepy little village, within that a hardware store... 
The Man continues speaking as Ike and the woman continue their conversation. 
WOMAN So what's in store for us in tomorrow's column? 
IKE I don't know yet.  I'm kind of a last- minute man.  Ideas don't flow until an hour or two before deadline. 
Ike sits at his computer, cassette player with Miles Davis PLAYS next to him as he types away reading his handiwork to himself. 
IKE (reading) "Today is a day of profound introspection, I have been accused of using this column to direct bitter diatribes at the opposite sex!  This uncomfortable accusation has plunged me into at least fifteen minutes of serious reflection, from which I have emerged with the conclusion that, yes -- I traffic in female stereotypes." 
EXT. USA TODAY OFFICE - DAY 
FISHER walks through the main office reading the paper. 
FISHER "But how can one blame me when every time I step out my front door I meet fresh proof that the female archetypes are alive and well?  Te mother, the virgin, the whore, the crone; they're elbowing you in the subway, stealing your cabs, and overwhelming you with perfume in elevators." 
INT. USA TODAY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Elaine at her desk reads aloud to herself. 
ELAINE "But perhaps, in fairness to the fairer sex, I do need to broaden my horizon and add some new goddesses to the pantheon: I would like to nominate for deity..." 
Fisher hands a file to Elaine. 
FISHER "... The cheerleader, the coed, and the man-eater, the last of which concerns me most today." 
Fisher leaves and we hold a USA Today sign. 
CUT TO: 
INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY 
The Man comes out of the men's room reading the USA Today, Kevin, the Bartender, stands on the bar reading the same article. 
MAN (reads) "To be fair, the man-eater isn't exactly new.  In Ancient Greece, this fearsome female was known as Erinys, the devouring death goddess.  In India, she is Kali, who likes to devour her boyfriend Shiva's entrails while her yoni devour his -- dot dot dot, never mind.  In Indonesia, the bloody-jawed man-eater is called Ragma..." 
Te Man sits at the bar near to the Bartender. 
BARTENDER You noticed these are all countries without cable. (then, continues reading) "... And in Hale, Maryland where she helps run the family hardware store. She is known as Miss Maggie Carpenter (mispronounces) ".... AKA, the Runaway Bride." 
CUT TO: 
EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY 
WORKERS read the above article. 
INT./EXT. BEAUTY PARLOR / HALE, MARYLAND - DAY 
PEGGY and MRS. PRESSMAN exit the parlor and stroll down the street. (lowers her paper and reads.) 
PEGGY (cont'd) "... And in Hale, Maryland where she helps run the family hardware store." (to the Women) We have to go to Maggie.  Cindy, mind the shop. (exits salon; continues reading) "... She is known as Miss Maggie Carpenter, AKA, the Runaway Bride." 
MRS. PRESSMAN Holy moly. 
The older one, Mrs. Pressman, listens with a pained expression as the younger one, Peggy, continues to read the column aloud. Neither one can believe what they're reading. 
PEGGY (reads) "What is unusual about Miss Carpenter is that she likes to dress her men up as grooms before she devours them.  She has already disemboweled six in a row by leaving them at the altar."... I can't ready anymore. 
MRS. PRESSMAN (takes paper from her, reads) "And her ritual feast continues as she prepares to make a sacrifice out of the seventh fiance.  So all bets are on and we hope that this boomerang bride isn't honeymooning with Las Vegas odds makers because many predict that this girl is out of there before the race... before the rice hits the ground" (then) Holy moly. 
Peggy and Mrs. Pressman step into a hardware store. 
INT. HARDWARE STORE - CONTINUOUS 
Peggy and Mrs. Pressman enter, worried. 
MRS. PRESSMAN You tell Maggie. 
PEGGY No, you tell her. 
MRS. PRESSMAN No, no.  You're her best friend. 
PEGGY No. 
MRS. PRESSMAN (holding her newspaper) You know, it's just possible that she hasn't read this yet. 
PEGGY Yeah. 
MRS. PRESSMAN Maybe she hasn't read the paper... 
On the counter, they see a copy of USA Today opened to the article about Maggie. 
MRS. PRESSMAN (cont'd) ... Or not! 
We follow MAGGIE down the back stairs inside The Hale Hardware Store, the prettiest, most welcoming shop of its kind anywhere in small town USA.  Somehow the place ha taken on the spirit of the owner's daughter; both stop and shop-girl radiate brightness, charm, and possibility.  Maggie comes down steps with a faucet handle and goes to an elderly customer, MR. PAXTON. 
MAGGIE (bright) Here we go!  One antique hot water handle with the "HOT" still on it, guaranteed to fit any American Standard cast iron tub with a four-inch center made between 1924 and 1938.  In other words, I think you're out of the doghouse with Mrs. Paxton. 
MR. PAXTON (amazed) Hallelujah. 
MAGGIE Alright, Mr. Paxton, I'll put it on your account. 
Maggie rounds the bend, another customer, EARL, stands by the paint machine. 
ELAINE You can go in now. 
Ike goes into Ellie's office.  Elaine picks up her phone. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELLIE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
ELLIE is that editor.  Stylish and successful looking, she's about Ike's age.  Ellie sits behind a big desk with a scowl on her pretty face.  Her casual-looking husband, Fisher, sits nonchalantly on the arm of the couch.  Ike enters as Ellie reads Maggie's letter. 
ELLIE (reading letter) "Anyway, I'm just dropping you big city folk this little note to say that I have thought of a ritual sacrifice that would satisfy my current appetite: Ike Graham's column on a platter.  Yours truly, Maggie Carpenter.  P.S. -- I have inclosed a list of the gross factual misrepresentations in your article.  There are fifteen." 
Ike sits as Ellie puts the letter down and takes off her glasses. 
IKE (chuckles as he sits) Fully.  I like her.  She has wit. 
ELLIE I left four messages.  You don't return my calls. 
IKE So?  I never returned your calls, even when we were married.  And what's Fisher doing here anyway? 
Fisher gets and places a photo of the cat on a bookshelf on his way to the other side of the room. 
FISHER Ellie asked me to come down to offer moral support. 
IKE Since when does Ellie need moral supp-- 
ELLIE -- It's for you, Ike. 
IKE What? 
ELLIE Journalism lesson number one.  If you fabricate your facts, you get fired. 
Ellie pushes USA Today lawyer's letter across the desk for him to read.  Ike picks it up and skims the letter.  His face is as impassive as stone. 
IKE Lesson number two.  Never work for your former spouse. 
ELLIE That's not nothing to do with it.  You cooked this story up and you know it. 
IKE I didn't cook up a story.  I had a source. 
ELLIE Someone reliable, I'm sure.  A booze- hound in a bar? 
FISHER In vino veritas. 
IKE Don't knock drunk guys in bars.  Drunk guys in bars are good.  It means they're not driving. 
Ike gets up and stands near Ellie, making his point. 
IKE (cont'd) Besides, I'm a columnist.  This is what columnists are supposed to do.  This is what you like.  We push, we stretch, we go out on a limo.  That's what makes me good! 
ELLIE No, that's what makes you unemployed. 
IKE I merely write the stuff.  You're the one that serves it up. 
Ike puts down the letter and puts his glasses back into his pocket. 
ELLIE Not anymore.  I have to draw the line. (pushing a piece of paper) She sent us this list.  Our lawyers say it's actionable. 
Ellie hands Ike Maggie's list. 
IKE (scoffs) Lawyers. (glances at list) I don't know, Ellie -- Firing me is going to be very tough on you.  It's going to be hard to get over.  There will be therapy bills for you. 
ELLIE (shrugs) I already made an appointment for later today. 
IKE (putting the list down, standing) See?  You want custody of my job? ... Why not just consider my wrist slapped and call me when you feel I've served my time? 
ELLIE I'm sorry, Ike.  This is permanent. 
Fisher winces and looks away.  Ike and Ellie look at each other for a sober moment. 
ELLIE (V.O.; cont'd) If you go quietly, I'll get you severance pay. 
Ellie fidgets with her toy rake, then Ike heads for the door. He laughs a little at the painful truth of her words and walks out.  Ellie collapses back in her chair.  Fisher goes to her and rubs her shoulders. 
EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY 
Ike rides sadly on the back of a forklift, gets off and walks out. 
EXT. HALE RESIDENTIAL STREET - ANOTHER MORNING 
ANGLE ON MAGGIE'S HOUSE: 
A train goes by.  A modest clapboard house with a porch.  Two entrances.  A PAPERBOY tosses a paper onto the lawn in front of the house.  The front door opens and Maggie appears fresh out of bed, wearing only a jacket and panties.  Heedless of being seen this way, she scampers out to the sidewalk to pick up her delivered paper:  USA Today.  She tears off the plastic bag and rips into it, looking for her letter.  She finds it.  A smile on her face, then she scampers back into the house. 
INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - THAT MOMENT 
Maggie skips back into her house which she shares with Father and Grandma.  A cozy and eclectic place creatively furnished on a shoe-string.  She rushes into:  KITCHEN WHERE BOB KELLY, fiance #4, is packing cans into a backpack.  Bob, 38, has a pleasant face and a body that is almost shockingly buff.  He's wearing a T-shirt that reads: "Mountaineers Do It Against the Wall.", Maggie dances over, waving the paper and singing. 
PEGGY No, she's talking about your hair. 
Maggie swivels his chair so that Ike faces the mirror.  Ike looks at his brightly colored hair. 
MAGGIE You're all ready for football season, Mr. Graham. 
Ike stares at his hair in total confusion.  With icy calm, Ike rises from his chair and primps the end of his hair as if giving it the finishing touches.  Then he sees his defaced newspaper clipping and all becomes clear.  He picks up the article and shows it to everyone.  Ike does a slow burn. 
IKE Yes, I think I nailed the personality profile of the women of Hale. 
Ike turns and puts the clipping up on the mirror. 
IKE (cont'd) (to Peggy) My jacket, please. 
Peggy hands him his jacket. 
IKE (cont'd) (sarcastically) Thank you. 
Ike moves toward the door.  He spots Pete. 
IKE (cont'd) (putting on jacket; to Pete) Excuse me, Pete, do you know a place that sells shampoo... Strong shampoo? 
PETE Doc's Pharmacy.  Third and Elm.  Tell him Pete sent you.  Want my hat? 
IKE No thanks. 
Ike smiles at Maggie and exits. 
MAGGIE (to Peggy) He seems crabby. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 
In front of beauty salon, Maggie follows Ike out. 
MAGGIE If you're looking for Elm Street, it's that way. 
She puts on her sunglasses. 
IKE Thank you. 
He walks the other way. 
MAGGIE If you came down here in the pursuit of happiness, you might as well go back. Because you can't make me feel bad. 
She stops walking and turns to Ike. 
IKE I'm not here to make you feel bad.  I'm here for vindication.  In my heart... 
MAGGIE You have one? 
Ike walks back to Maggie. 
IKE I feel I'm right about you.  You got me fired, lady.  You destroyed my reputation and you screwed up my hair. You chew men up, spit them out and loved it.  And I'm down here to satisfy myself on that point. 
PASSERSBY stare at Ike's hair and giggle. 
MAGGIE Did something happen to make you care about reality? 
IKE Yes.  Conviction.  Conviction that I'm onto the truth.  You're going to do the same thing to "poor bastard number four" that you did to the last three.  You're going to run again.  And I'm not leaving until you do. 
MAGGIE You're going to be very disappointed. 
IKE We'll see. 
MAGGIE I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got to get back to work.  I still have my job. 
He stares at her for a beat, stung by her words. 
MAGGIE I have nothing to hide, Mr. Graham. Talk to whoever you want.  You might actually stumble upon a fact or two. 
Maggie walks away.  Ike walks a few steps and stops at a KID on a bike. 
IKE Hey, kid, I'll give you ten bucks for your hat. 
Kid agrees.  Ike puts the hat on and starts to cross the street. An OLD WOMAN walks by and hits him with a newspaper.  Ike is stunned. 
EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DUSK 
Maggie pulls into the driveway in her truck.  She's in a fine mood as she walks right in the house. 
INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DUSK 
Bob, Walter, and Maggie's GRANDMOTHER JULIA sit in the living room.  Grandma is sewing one of Maggie's wedding veils.  Walter drinks wine, Ike wears a hat. 
WALTER You know, when I only see one dog, I know I've had too much to drink. 
MAGGIE Not this one.  This one's on me. 
Walter reacts. 
IKE That's fair. 
MAGGIE Despite what you think, I don't do it on purpose.  And I have no intention of doing it again. 
BOB That's right, Maggie.  Just keep your eye on the ball. 
Ike raises his eyebrows in question.  Bob explains. 
BOB (cont'd) Sports psychology.  It was my major in college. 
IKE Ahh. 
BOB (false modesty) I'm the town's unofficial fitness trainer.  Big advocate of the mind and body combining for success.  You could say or you can quote me, I'm a glass half full king of guy. 
MAGGIE (boasting) Bob's the head of the P.E. department at the high school.  And he coaches the football team.  And he's climbed Everest. 
To Maggie's satisfaction, Ike shoots Bob a look of begrudging respect.  Nobody who's been up Everest is a total clown. 
IKE (impressed) Everest.  Is that right? 
MAGGIE Twice... 
IKE Really? 
MAGGIE (sticking it to Ike) Without oxygen... 
BOB My girl likes to brag about me. 
Bob and Maggie kiss Ike two little love-birds. 
BOB (cont'd) I'm taking her trekking on Annapurna on our honeymoon. 
Ike is highly amused. 
IKE How romantic. 
MAGGIE (sharply) We think so. 
IKE Nothing like sharing your nuptial bed with two Sherpas and a yak. 
Walter cracks up, Maggie shoots Ike a look.  He smiles back. 
CUT TO: 
INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM/INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S BEDROOM (NYC) 
INTERCUT TELEPHONE CONVERSATION 
Fisher and Ellie are exercising.  Fisher is on a cycle machine. Ellie does yoga stretches.  Ike sits back on the couch, puts on his glasses and watches a video taped wedding playing on the TV screen.  Superimposed titles read "Brian Norris wedding." 
IKE (to Fisher; into phone) You won't believe what I'm looking at, Fisher.  A videotape of all three train wrecks. 
THE TV - CLOSE 
Two flower girls and Peggy enter a crowded church where the groom, Brian, and his best man wait at the altar. 
Now we see Maggie come down the aisle, then walk past the altar. We see Maggie move away another aisle and out of the church. SHOCKED WEDDING GUESTS rise in horror, as she runs from this first wedding.  She drags the train boy up the second aisle as she leaves.  Ike hangs up.  He gets up to pick up the remote and then sits back down to watch. 
The tape fast-forwards to the next wedding.  Now Ike is looking at a much more relaxed, hipper, backyard wedding.  It says, "Gill Chavez Wedding".  He hits the fast-forward button (sometimes slowing down). 
ON TV: 
We see the Carpenter's backyard.  It is Gill and Maggie's wedding day.  The yard is crowded with a MIXTURE of Hells Angels-types, Deadheads and townspeople.  The "altar" is a band platform against the back fence. 
Gill is waiting on the platform with a rock combo playing Grateful Dead-type music.  He makes an introductory speech. 
Maggie steps out onto the back porch.  She's beautiful in a hippie-type wedding ensemble.  She walks with her father to a trampoline.  We can see her tattoo.  She jumps on the trampoline, then dives into the crowd.  They watch her and body surf her over their heads to the back fence. 
As she hits the stage, she looks at Peggy and Gill, then decides to go.  She jumps off the stage and runs up to a passing GUY on a dirt bike.  She jumps on and turns and waves as she rides away.  During the video, Ike scribbles: "Gill Chavez".  Maggie goes off on dirt bike.  The tape fast-forwards to the last of Maggie's fiascoes. 
ON IKE'STV 
He now sees the third wedding.  It's outdoors, in a tree lined area, MUSICIANS plays.  Ike laughs as he discovers that Maggie approaches the altar on horseback, in a simple white dress, wearing a crown of flowers.  The Maid Marian look.  Ike slows the tape. 
ON TV:  IT SAYS, "GEORGE SWILLING WEDDING". 
As Maggie rides down the aisle, suddenly the horse whinnies! 
Maggie has kicked it in the shins.  It rears and bolts, galloping off with the bride.  Ike FREEZE FRAMES the tape on an image of Maggie, hair blowing.  Although she is panic-stricken, her soul seems to shine through in tat single frame.  As Ike stares at her, the smirk fades from his face.  He just looks at her, allowing himself to see her expression, her eyes.  He can't help it. 
She gets to him.  Ike gets a restless look on his face.  He stares closely.  The groom is George from the bar. 
IKE Kamikaze! 
MRS. TROUT (handing him the other bag) Your two cinnamon rolls. 
IKE Bye, Betty.  Thanks. 
He leaves. 
MAGGIE He's not a nice person. 
Maggie hands Mrs. Trout her bride and broom figures.  Maggie looks at Mrs. Trout, suddenly nervous.  She dashes out.  Mrs. Trout imitates Ike bamming the bride and groom, laughing. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY 
Various High School SPORTS TEAMS practice.  Maggie strides across the football field, a scowl on her face.  A few HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL PLAYERS job past Maggie, doing laps.  A boy, KENDALL, calls out to her affectionately as she passes.  One of them, DENNIS, slows his pace to run alongside Maggie. 
DENNIS (playful) Maggie, don't marry Coach!  Marry me. I love you. 
MAGGIE You're jail bait, Dennis.  Go away. Run your laps.  Go. Go. 
Dennis runs on as Maggie continues toward her goal: Bob and Ike, standing together on the other side of the field. 
ANGLE ON BOB AND IKE 
They're both standing on the blocking sled.  Wave after wave of VARSITY FOOTBALL PLAYERS ram into the sled and drive it across the field with both Ike and Bob on top of it.  Ike is munching on one of the cinnamon rolls as Bob pushes the KIDS. 
BOB Drive!  Drive!  From your hips, get low, get low, get low.  Next! 
Ike smiles broadly atop of the sled as he sees Maggie approaching, looking mighty peeved.  He nudges Bob and points to Maggie.  Bob lights up at the sight of her. 
BOB (cont'd) Good job, gentlemen... Special teams. 
The football players move away from the sled.  Bob moves to Maggie, leaves Ike alone. 
BOB (cont'd) (to Maggie) Hey, honey! 
Bob kisses and embraces Maggie.  She doesn't see Ike immediately, then: 
MAGGIE (indicating Ike) What is he up to now? 
BOB Ike just came by to check out the team. 
IKE And talk about you. 
Ike grins and shows Maggie the notes in his pocket. 
MAGGIE Bob -- are you making friends with this man? 
BOB I'm just bragging about how great you are.  I'm the luckiest man alive. 
Bob grabs Maggie around the waist and smooches her adoringly. Maggie scowls at Ike.  He nods, all charm. 
IKE Well -- I've got to get moving -- lot of work to do today!  I'll see you two love-birds later. 
Ike leaves.  Bob calls after him. 
BOB See you at the wedding. 
IKE You bet ya, Coach. 
Maggie is aghast.  She stares at Bob.  Ike joins in behind a line of peppy cheerleaders. 
MAGGIE At the wedding?  You invite him?  Bob, don't you realize he's writing another article about me? 
BOB Sure I do.  But the bet defense is a good offense, right?  You're not going to let your opponent throw you off your game. 
MAGGIE You don't understand this guy. 
BOB Let him come to the wedding.  You're not running, right?  Say it. "I'm not..." 
MAGGIE (irritably) I'm not running. 
BOB So if you're not running and Ike Graham is there to see it, then any article he writes has got to have a happy ending, right?  All we're doing is turning lemon into lemonade. 
MAGGIE I've got news for you.  No amount of sugar and water is going to turn like Graham into something you want to take on a picnic. 
Bob gives Maggie a big hug. 
BOB Where's that homemade sunshine? 
Bob blows his whistle, then puts Maggie on the football sled. 
BOB (cont'd) I want you boys to take my princess on the ride of her life... Honey, tell 'em where you parked your car. 
Maggie screams as the boys push her down the football field. 
INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH/CHURCH - DAY 
MAGGIE (tenderly) I'm really sorry that I hurt you, Brian. 
BRIAN I'm happy here, where I'm supposed to be.  But if you ever become a Catholic, may I ask you a favor, Maggie? 
MAGGIE Of course. 
BRIAN Could your confess to Father Patrick from now on? 
MAGGIE Of course. 
And she scampers out.  Brian goes back into the confessional. 
EXT. GILL'S GARAGE - DAY 
Maggie drives up to an old brick firehouse that is now an auto garage.  The faded sign reads: "Gill's Garage". 
INT. GILL'S GARAGE - DAY 
Maggie rushes inside and looks around.  No one is in sight. Several cars, including a yellow jeep-like car up on a hydraulic lift, are in the funky garage. 
MAGGIE Gill?  Lydia?  Gill? 
A CRASH, coming from the nearby back room, we hear loud muttering in Spanish, then out stumbles GILL CHAVEZ, 34, wearing a grease- stained Grateful Dead tie-dyed T-shirt.  He grins triumphantly, worshipfully cradling a CASSETTE TAPE in his hands. 
GILL Hey -- I found it! 
Maggie regards her former fiance with patient warmth. 
MAGGIE Found what? 
Gill looks up and gives Maggie a fond, hazy smile. 
GILL Mags!  Hey, look -- The tape from the Radio City Music Hall concert -- Remember that night I as trying to get Jerry to let me sit in on "Ripple"? 
He pulls out the cassette from its case.  It's broken.  The tape is dangling from the cassette. 
GILL (cont'd) (disappointed) Oh, I'll play it for you. 
Gill picks up an electric GUITAR and starts to play. 
MAGGIE (shouts over the music) Listen, Gill -- There's this reporter who's ben making my life a living hell ... If he comes by here, don't talk to him.  And whatever yo do.... (crosses to Gill) ... Don't show him that picture of me at the concert in San Francisco -- 
Suddenly, a loud CHUCKLING emanates from the car overhead. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) What was that? 
Maggie stops Gill from playing.  She shoots her ex an angry glare and moves a lever on the shop wall.  With a HUM, the car descends. 
GILL We went to San Francisco twice. Remember one time we had a flat tire... Which picture? 
As the hydraulic lift slows, the car is lowered, revealing Ike sitting in the driver's seat.  He has been enjoying the photograph he's holding. 
IKE (feigning shock) Imagine!  Maggie Carpenter topless in a public arena. (checks photo again) And I see there was a chill in the air. 
Maggie swipes for the photo, but Ike is faster at pulling it away. 
MAGGIE Give me that! 
IKE But the most interesting thing here is that I don't see the rose tattoo that I've heard about on your back. 
Gill takes off his guitar and sets it down. 
GILL Ike bet me fifty bucks you don't still have it, Mags.  I said "You're on, man! Maggie loved that thing!"  And I could really use fifty bucks. 
Maggie is conspicuously silent. 
GILL (cont'd) (looking worried) Mags? 
MAGGIE I'm not gonna show you guys anything. I am a soon-to-be-married woman.  Now give me that photograph. 
Maggie seethes. 
IKE Sure, I would love to give this to you. Just give us one quick gander at that rose, and, I'll gladly hand it over. 
She tries to grab the photo again.  Ike pulls it away. 
MAGGIE Fine.  Here. 
Maggie quickly turns around and pulls down the back of her shirt, revealing the top of her back and a pristine expanse of skin.  No tattoo. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) (turning back around) Satisfied? 
IKE Completely. 
Gill is still trying to grasp the meaning of this. 
GILL Maggie?  You got it removed? 
PEGGY Okay, that's fine.  I can do that. 
Ike comes up to Peggy. 
IKE Hello, Peggy Phleming, "not the ice-skater". 
Ike indicates the seat next to Peggy. 
PEGGY (protesting weakly) That's Maggie's seat... 
Ike sits down comfortably. 
IKE ... And this is Maggie's beer. 
He starts drinking it.  ON THE FIELD, Cory is getting ready to steal third. 
IKE (cont'd) That your  husband out there?  Cory Phleming, a local radio announcer. 
PEGGY Have you listened to his morning show, "Wake up with ballplayer"? 
IKE Not yet.  I had a phlemless morning.  I hear he's a pretty good ballplayer. 
PEGGY This game is pretty important to him. He made all-stars in high school, you know. 
IKE That must have made you proud. 
Peggy takes a small sip off her soda. 
PEGGY He was going with Maggie back then. (quickly) He was never one of her... I mean, they were never going to get... They just dated for a while. 
Cory dives in for third and makes it.  The crowd goes wild. Peggy yells and jumps in. 
PEGGY (cont'd) Good job, honey! 
But Maggie's whoop sails out above it all.  Cory waves.  But not at Peggy.  He directs his delight at Maggie, who jumps up and down by the dugout. 
Ike looks between Cory, Maggie and finally, Peggy.  Peggy jerks her waving hand back down to her side and sits down.  Ike pretends not to have noticed.  The two watch as Maggie and Cory smile at each other. 
IKE It's nice that they're still friends. 
PEGGY (looking at Maggie and Cory) Oh, sure.  That was a long time ago. See, she's not a man-hater at all. She's very supportive of men... 
Next BATTER hits one to deep left field and it lands in the grave yard.  Cory scores, greeted by Maggie.  Ike and Peggy watch as Cory and Maggie belly-bump and high-five each other in celebration of Cory's play.  No looks at Peggy.  Ike keeps an empathetic silence, seeing that Peggy is truly hurt. 
PEGGY (cont'd) I'll be back in a second. 
Suddenly, Peggy stands, pushes past him and runs down the steps. Maggie looks up just in time to catch Peggy's exit.  Ike pulls his tape recorder out of his pocket and starts speaking into it. 
Maggie shoots Ike an accusing look, walks up to him in the bleachers and sits next to him. 
MAGGIE You've been here for three minutes. What did you do to her? 
IKE You can turn that finger around. 
Ike does an on-the-button imitation of Maggie jumping excitedly at Cory.  Now Maggie sees what he's getting at. 
MAGGIE (defensive) You misinterpret everything.  We've all been friends our whole lives.  But that's the types of relationship you wouldn't understand. 
IKE Obviously, I'm not the only one who doesn't understand it.  The USS Maggie leaves quite a wake... Excuse me. 
Ike walks away.  Alone, Maggie tries to seem enthused. 
MAGGIE See, I cheer good.  What is he, a cheer critic? 
EXT./INT. STREET/BAR - LATER - DUSK 
Sitting in front of Inn Hale Bar, we see the BARTENDER pantomiming holding the reins of a wildly galloping horse.  We've seen something like this before.  Maggie's wild ride away from her last wedding.  Ike laughs with Bartender just as Maggie drives by the bar and sees this. 
MAGGIE (to herself) This guy never stops. 
INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - NIGHT 
Maggie walks up to the front desk of the hotel, where Lee is sleeping with his feet up.  She knocks his feet off the counter. 
MAGGIE Lee, hey, wake up.  Give me the key to the reporter's room.  I want to snoop around. 
LEE (handing her the key) Okay.  Second floor. 
MAGGIE Thanks. 
LEE Don't take anything big. 
Maggie moves up the stairs towards Ike's room. 
INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER 
Maggie walks towards Ike's room, checks that no one sees her and enters. 
MAGGIE On anything male that moves?  As opposed to anything male that doesn't move? 
Peggy pours her coffee out of its Styrofoam cup into a ceramic mug. 
PEGGY Like certain kinds of coral. 
Peggy sits in the salon chair next to Maggie. 
MAGGIE I'm going to kill myself. 
PEGGY Why? 
MAGGIE Because you think I'm all like... "Hey man, check me out". 
PEGGY (friendly) No, I don't think you're like, "I'm charming and mysterious in a way that even I don't understand and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you".  Very hard to compete with.  Especially to us married women who have lost our mystery. 
MAGGIE But you haven't lost your mystery! You're very mysterious! 
PEGGY No.  I'm weird.  Weird and mysterious are two different things. 
MAGGIE But I'm weird. 
PEGGY No.  You're quirky.  Quirky and weird are two different things. 
MAGGIE Peggy, there's distinct possibility that I might be profoundly and irreversibly screwed up.  Despite that, I love you and I can promise that I will no longer flirt with Cory, and I beg your forgiveness. 
Maggie looks ready to cry. 
PEGGY I'm not worried about you and Cory or Cory and me or even that you're irreversibly screwed up.  But, Maggie, you've been like this since we were kids.  And I think now that you are aware of it and that it hurts people's feelings, maybe it's time to move on with your life and commit to someone of your own, like Bob, if he's the one. 
MAGGIE I think you're right. (then) Is there anything I can do to make it up to you? 
PEGGY Something that brings warmth to my heart. (pause) Duckbill platypus. 
MAGGIE It's only funny at Camp Birchwood at three in the morning at a tick hunt. It's not anymore. 
Maggie makes her funny face.  Peggy doesn't laugh. 
PEGGY You're right.  It's not funny now. Maybe we both grew up. 
MAGGIE Thanks.  Will you fix my hair? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - LATER THAT MORNING 
Maggie exits her house, gets on her bike and rides off towards town. 
INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT MORNING 
Ike is still in bed.  He slowly blinks awake, stretches, and is about to  throw off the covers when Maggie's voice breaks the silence. 
MAGGIE Freeze.  Hold on to those covers -- I didn't come here to see Ike Junior. 
Maggie smiles cheerfully at Ike from the foot of the bed.  He narrows his eyes at her. 
IKE I take it the desk clerk is one of your many admirers. 
MAGGIE (deadpan) How do I do it?  I'm not that beautiful. 
Ike notices Maggie is holding two coffees. 
IKE Coffee.  Now. 
Maggie hands it to him. 
MAGGIE You're welcome.  Your notes made interesting bedtime reading -- if you like trashy fiction.  Your observations are distorted, ungrounded an incomplete. You must be very proud. 
IKE I'm not a boastful man.  What's your point? 
Ike puts a shirt on as Maggie speaks. 
MAGGIE My point is that one again, you're getting it all wrong.  That won't improve your reputation any, and it's not very flattering to me either.  So, I'm going to give you a chance to write the truth. 
IKE Really. 
Maggie turns away from him as he dresses. 
MAGGIE I've decided to cooperate and let you interview me. (beat) For a thousand bucks. 
Ike clears his throat as he stands putting his pants on. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) I want a big wedding and a killer dress and for a grand I will answer all your questions and let you follow me around. 
Ike takes his coffee with him as he picks up his glasses, puts them on and crosses to the window. 
IKE My magazine doesn't pay because for stories.  It's not what you call ethical. 
Ike sits as he hears Maggie's voice behind him. 
MAGGIE (o.s.) What do you think? 
Ike turns around.  Maggie is standing on the pedestal, wearing the dress and looking unbelievably gorgeous.  She is overwhelming to behold and Ike has to struggle to keep his face under control. 
IKE (stammering) You look... uh... You look fine. 
MAGGIE Fine.  The newspaper's upside down. That's better than fine. 
IKE Bob will be very happy. 
She glows.  Then the moment between them is broken as she suddenly remembers something and grabs the veil off her head. 
MAGGIE Bob!  I almost forgot!  I have to meet Bob! 
INT. DINER - DAY 
This is a great place -- a major hub of social life in Hale.  The food is greasy and good, Mrs. Pressman is the waitress, and the CROWD the essence of what is wonderful about a small town.  Bob, Maggie and Ike sit on the counter.  Mrs. Pressman CHUFFS about the luau, then moves around the corner. 
BOB Mrs. Pressman, I think we're ready to order. 
MRS. PRESSMAN We're out the special because somebody... (indicates COOK with head) ... didn't order enough sausage. 
BOB Let me have the garden omelette.  Egg whites only. 
Ike looks at Maggie.  He'd bet a thousand bucks on what she'd say next. 
MAGGIE I'll have the same. 
IKE (clears his throat) Of course. 
MAGGIE What was that?  I can't order  my eggs without sarcasm? 
BOB Neutral corners you two.  You're on the same team now.  Any more fighting and it's fifteen minutes in the penalty box. (gently, to Ike) Maggie's the nicest person you'll ever meet.  But she's always focusing out there.  She's got to start focusing more in here. (taps his chest) That's why she's had some -- whatever you want to call it -- problems in the past. (to Maggie) That's what we're working on -- focus. Right, Maggie?  Focus on Maggie.  Focus on Bob. 
As Bob has been talking, Ike has been watching Maggie's face. The joy seems to have drained out of her. 
MAGGIE (quietly) Right. 
BOB (to Ike) I lead Maggie through a visualization exercise.  All the sports shrinks use this head stuff.  Visualize the end zone, if you catch my drift. 
Bob takes out a notepad and hands it to Maggie. 
BOB (cont'd) Here's today's mantra: "It's an open field to Big Bob." 
IKE Tell me.  When you get to the altar, will you spike the bouquet? 
MAGGIE You know, there's no... 
Before Maggie can finish, Ike intercepts her. 
IKE Well, I'm off.  A reporter's work is never done. (heading to the door) Mrs. Pressman, thank you. 
MRS. PRESSMAN Tootaloo. 
INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - MOMENTS LATER 
GRANDMA JULIA (V.O.) I'd like to explain about the weddings. There are reasons why they didn't come off.  Three weddings, no "I do's".  You can't believe how much cake we were left with.  I should weigh three hundred pounds.  I don't think her father minded spending so much money on booze that nobody drank. 
We hear Grandma as through the hotel doors, we see Maggie exit the diner.  She gets a bag from inside the cab of her truck and comes inside the hotel where she finds Ike talking to Grandma, who is having tea with her friend, NETTA. 
MAGGIE Ike... Hi, Grandma. 
IKE Gram here was going to give me the skinny on why you run from marital bliss. 
GRANDMA JULIA Right, cover your ears, Netta.  It's not that she's afraid of the wedding, she's afraid of the wedding night. Innocent girls are terrified of "the one-eyed snake". (getting into it) Why, when I was a virgin bride, I took a knitting needle with me into the bed... 
Ike winces. 
MAGGIE Actually, Grandma, I charmed the one- eyed snake awhile ago. 
GRANDMA JULIA Oh, yeah, I forgot.  I'll tell you one thing, your grandpa didn't forget that wedding night. (no Netta) You can take your hands off your ears, Netta.  Your tea's getting cold. 
MAGGIE Can you excuse us a minute? (then to Ike) May I have a word with you, please? 
Maggie moves toward door. 
IKE Bye, Netta... Bye, Grandam. 
He steps over to Maggie in the doorway. 
MAGGIE I found this and didn't know if it was something interesting. 
Maggie hands Ike a 30-year-old LP: Miles Davis' "Kind of Blue." 
IKE (excited) Oh, my God -- It's Miles Davis.  This is "King of Blue"!  This is the original recording.  Hard to find in good condition.  Where did you find this? 
Ike and Maggie sit in the steaming car for a moment. 
MAGGIE Your filter's clogged.  This takes unleaded. 
IKE Can you fix it? 
MAGGIE First I have to find some tools.  I need a half and a nine-six-tenth. 
IKE (removing his glasses) Of what? 
MAGGIE (in amazement) Wrenches.  My dad's gonna love that one. 
Maggie slams the food closed. 
IKE Kind of isolated. 
MAGGIE Yeah.  It's kind of nice. 
An uncomfortable silent pause.  Ike breaks the moment. 
IKE There's one thing we New Yorkers know how to do is hail a cab.  If there's no cab, we walk. 
Ike stares off down the road.  Maggie indicates a building in the distance, then turns off the car lights. 
MAGGIE I can get some tools over there.... and save the battery... There's one thing we country girls know how to do is cut across a field.  It's quicker. 
Maggie points diagonally across the field to where a gas station sign glows and the lights from the outer house twinkle. 
He smiles and follows her into the field. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) Be careful of snakes. 
IKE Snakes?  Are you serious?  I don't like snakes.  I've never even seen a snake. 
He steps carefully into the field, then hops gingerly toward Maggie. 
MOMENTS LATER 
Maggie leads Ike through a cornfield. 
MAGGIE Do you think there's only one right person for everybody? 
Ike chooses his words carefully. 
IKE No.  But I think attraction is too often mistaken for rightness. Attraction is very misleading.  And if it's mutual, it's well, terribly distracting. 
MAGGIE Yes it is.  And it doesn't mean anything. 
Ike nods as they come to a wooden fence.  She puts her hand on his shoulder.  Ike puts his hands around her waits to give her a boost over the top.  We see the flicker of misunderstanding cross Maggie's face at the initial contact.  Neither of them moves -- forward or back, but the electricity is obvious. 
ANGLE ON:  Ike.  His conflicted feelings are apparent.  With difficulty, Maggie straightens up and they both quickly remove their hands. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) (lightly) I suddenly forgot how to climb a fence. 
They look at each other for a moment, then: 
MAGGIE AND IKE (breaking the moment jokingly) "Tools". 
She climbs over the fence on her own and Ike follows.  They see an old guy, LIONEL, whittling on a porch. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) Lionel, can I borrow some tools? 
IKE Yeah, we need a half and nine- sixteenths. 
LIONEL Gonna bust out of another wedding? 
IKE You're sure well known around here. 
EXT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S BUILDING - THE NEXT DAY 
Establishing shot. 
INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S KITCHEN (NYC) - DAY 
INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 
INTERCUT BETWEEN TWO LOCATIONS: 
Ike sits on his bed, on the phone, working and eating his breakfast.  He's watching Maggie's wedding tape again.  Fisher is cooking an elaborate breakfast.  Ellie rushes around getting ready for work.  He is on the phone to Ike. 
FISHER (into phone) Yes, well, my theory was that she may be running because she gets attention... Negative attention is attention. Like when women whack you on the street because of your column, that's negative attention. 
IKE (V.O.) This is about her negative attention, not mine.  Did you get the reimbursement for the dress yet? 
FISHER (into phone) No, I'm paying for the dress.  Do you think she's still gonna run? 
IKE (V.O.) I don't know. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET/FISHER AND ELLIE'S BUILDING - DAY 
Ike walks down a street toward Ellie and Fisher. 
CUT TO: 
INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S APARTMENT (NYC) - NIGHT 
Ellie is on the phone as Fisher enters with beer.  Ike sits at the piano. 
FISHER (sarcastically) Overpriced nice apartment and Chinese takeout.  That's New York living. 
ELLIE (into phone) ... Just call me when you have it. (hangs up, then to Fisher) Ike, how is the story coming?  Is she a man-eater? 
FISHER Or a vegetarian? 
ELLIE Or does she pick "NGB'S" -- "Nice Guys, But..."  Nice guys, but I'm cheap. Nice guys, but he lives with his mom... Nice guys, but he just out of prison. 
IKE No... They're interesting guys.  Each one of these guys has something going for him.  I mean, one's been up Everest. Another's become a priest.  One's a pretty good guitar player.  And this guy today tried to end world hunger, if you can believe that... 
FISHER Whoa, Ike.  Getting a complex, buddy? 
ELLIE Fisher, let him talk. 
IKE (sits) But one of those guys -- not one of them -- knew her at all.  Each one was convinced that she was perfect for them, but they didn't see her.  And she never showed up so they couldn't see her. It's a very symbolic thing happening. She becomes what she thinks they wanted to be. 
Fisher doesn't like the sound of this.  He glances at Ellie, who is looking very interested. 
FISHER (in shock) Ike is turning sensitive and I can't bear to watch.  I'm going to make a fresh pot of tea. 
The phone rings as Fisher exits.  Ike goes to the piano as Ellie picks up the phone. 
ELLIE (into phone) Yeah... Oh, Jay... Okay... Bye. (hangs up, then yells to Fisher) Fisher, don't forget the fortune cookies. 
She joins Ike at the piano.  Ike gets serious. 
IKE Is that what I did to you?  Is that what happened?  Did I just not see you? 
ELLIE No.  No, you didn't. 
He hugs her. 
IKE (heartfelt) Well -- I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, Ellie. 
ELLIE I'm sorry, too. (beat) Wow.  That only took us between years to say. 
Ellie blinks back sentimental tears. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TROUT'S BARN - THE NEXT NIGHT 
We hear Hawaiian music.  We see a truck with GUESTS drive up and HULA DANCERS through barn slats. 
INT. TROUT'S BARN - NIGHT 
It's a small barn that's been converted into a luau with a bar. A BAND plays for two hula dancers.  The Trouts had decorated it as a little slice of Hawaii.  There are tiki lights, numerous rented plastic palm trees and fiberglass copies of Hawaiian statuary.  Strings of colored lights crisscross the ceiling. It looks like a Hawaiian high school gym on prom night. 
Maggie's family, Mrs. Trout and people we've already met, and more, are here, milling around wit tropical drinks garnished with umbrellas.  Plastic leis abound and most people have managed to find their old Hawaiian shirts. 
As we come in, the hula dancers finish their applause and Mrs. Trout announces.  Hula dancers stop. 
LOU TROUT Welcome to our annual country luau.  As you know, Betty and I got married on the rim of the crater, Diamond Head. 
MRS. TROUT (grabbing the microphone) This year, we're dedicating our first dance to the soon-to-be newlyweds, the King and Queen of Hawaii, Maggie and Bob. 
The couple enters.  Bob is a goody bronzed god in his King Kamahamela outfit.  Maggie is spectacular in her authentic looking Hawaiian Princess get-up.  But her face reflects none of the festivities around her.  Every now and then, she looks up and glances around for Ike, hating herself for it. 
MRS. TROUT (cont'd) King and Queen, dance. 
Maggie and Bob start to dance as the Quarter sings "Aloha Oe." 
MRS. TROUT (cont'd) Everybody dance. 
Everybody dances. 
TIMES OUT: 
Maggie and Bob pose for pictures with some of the guests. 
MRS. TROUT Pictures of the King and Queen. 
Dennis poses with Maggie.  Cory poses with Bob.  Mrs. Trout runs out of film and goes to get more, leaving Peggy and Maggie alone. Peggy whispers to Maggie. 
PEGGY Lighten up, wahine. 
MAGGIE Lighten up, what? 
IKE You want me to make a toast?  Okay... I'll give you a toast.  To Maggie's family and friends.  May you find yourselves the bull's eye of an easy target.  May you be publicly flogged for all of your bad choices and may your noses to rubbed in all of your mistakes... 
Ike watches their reaction.  The silence is deafening.  All the guests stare at Maggie.  Mortified, she holds back tears. 
MRS. TROUT That was funny. (a pause) But enough toasts, let's hula.  Let's start the music up. 
She gets everyone up to hula.  Band plays fast tune.  Maggie walks through the CROWD down the steps and outside.  Ike follows, but Peggy grabs a coat for her.  Bob watches her go as Cory approaches. 
CORY Hey, Bob.  I got twenty dollars bet on-- 
BOB Not now. 
Bob rushes after Maggie. 
PEGGY (calling after her) Maggie.  Maggie. (to Ike,  handing him a jacket) Here.  She may need this.  It's not really Hawaii. 
Ike exits.  Then, Bob comes over. 
BOB Where'd Maggie go? 
PEGGY Oh, she just went to get me something from the car. 
Cory comes over with Dennis to Bob and Peggy.  BOB/PEGGY/CORY/ DENNIS CHUFFA:  About Bart Starr and football.  (Which keeps Bob from going outside to follow Maggie).  Bob thinks about it. 
EXT. TROUT'S BARN - NIGHT 
Ike runs after Maggie.  He grabs her arm and turns her to him. 
IKE I'm the only goddamn person in there pulling for you. 
MAGGIE You humiliated me! 
IKE No, Maggie, I defended you. Humiliating you is what everyone else is doing.  It's the theme of this party. 
MAGGIE I had it under control.  Now they feel sorry for me. 
IKE Well, they should.  Because they're about to watch you hang yourself again. 
Maggie has no response. 
IKE (cont'd) -- Tell me something, do you really care about Mount Everest? 
MAGGIE It's fun!  It's high. 
IKE Or the sexual habits of locusts? 
MAGGIE That was very interesting research George was doing! 
IKE What kind of Dead Head gets a temporary tattoo? 
MAGGIE I already explained about that. 
IKE And where you ever really going to run the leper colony in Molokai? 
MAGGIE (wincing) Brian told you that? 
IKE Or maybe you just wanted to wear the headdress. 
MAGGIE Every one of those times I was being supportive.  Something you won't understand. 
IKE Supportive?  You weren't being supportive.  You were being scared. Just like now.  You are the most lost woman I have ever laid eyes on. 
MAGGIE Lost! 
IKE That's right.  You're so lost you don't even know how you like your eggs. 
MAGGIE What!? 
IKE With the priest, you liked them scrambled.  With the Dead Head, fried. With the bug guy, poached.  Now it's egg whites only, thank you very much. 
MAGGIE That's called changing your mind. 
IKE No, that's called not having a mind of your own.  What are you doing, Maggie? You really want to let that man drag you up Annapuma on your honeymoon?  You don't want to climb Annapuma. 
MAGGIE Yes I do! 
IKE No you don't.  You want a man who will lead you down the beach with his head over your eyes just so you can discover the feel of the sand under your feet. You want a guy who will take you into a cave with a thousand candles just to read you a poem.  You want a man to wake you up at dawn because he's burning to talk to you and he can't wait another minute to find out what you'll say.  Am I right? 
He's laid her flat.  Maggie can't speak. 
IKE (cont'd) Am I right? 
She fights back angry tears. 
MAGGIE Stop.  Stop it!  I'm getting married on Sunday, and you're just trying to make me run!  Why?  Because you're a cynical, exploitative, mean-hearted creep who wouldn't know real love if it bit him in the armpit!  And all you do is tear other people down and-and-and laugh at them, and criticize what they do, because you're too afraid to do anything yourself!  I read your column. You never wrote one about you.  I'm not the only one who's lost and you know it! Am I right?  Well?  Am I right? 
ANGLE ON:  Bob comes outside. 
IKE (taking off his jacket) At this pace, it could be an evening wedding. 
BOB Hold it!  Hold it!  I think we're taking this too fast. 
He begins to pace. 
BOB (cont'd) We need to limber you up a little. You're tensing. (thinks a moment; to Ike, moving him to groom's spot) You stand here and be me so she knows how far she'll have to go. (then to Maggie) I'm going to walk with you. 
Bob goes to Maggie and walks behind her. 
BOB (cont'd) Visualize!  Visualize!  It's game time. 
ANGLE ON: 
Maggie walking. 
BOB (cont'd) You are the football.  You're spiraling through the air towards the hands of the groom. 
She proceeds down the aisle.  Bob behind her. 
MAGGIE (eyes down) Yes, I'm spiraling through the air. 
ANGLE ON: 
Maggie raises her eyes and sees Ike in front of her as groom. Ike and Maggie lock gazes.  If they had to, they couldn't look away.  All the things unspoken are now communicated -- the love, the longing. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) I streak towards the goal line. 
Maggie's pace quickens. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) And I land on the goal line. 
ANGLE ON: 
Bob beams to see Maggie's eager arrival at Ike's side.  He switches off the music and proceeds like a proud coach to be the pastor. 
BOB Okay, I'm the pastor.  Dearly beloved, blah, blah, blah.  So on and so forth. Ra ta ta ta.  Yabada dabada.  I now pronounce you man and wife.  Kiss the bride, badum dum. (then moving toward Ted) We have the crescendo that leads to us right back down the aisle and out the... 
Ike kisses Maggie.  It is a world class, Olympic kiss.  It is a kiss that changes everything and can never be taken back.  It is a kiss you only get once in your life. 
NEW ANGLE: 
Bob's smile dies.  Cindy's mouth drops open as the kiss goes on and on.  Peggy loses control and screams. 
BOB (cont'd) Maggie!!!!? 
Like a bucket of water thrown on two dogs, Ike and Maggie are startled out of their kiss.  They pull apart and smile at each other. 
ANGLE ON:  Bob. 
BOB (cont'd) (furious) If you were imagining me, you did great. (to Ike) What the hell were you doing? 
IKE (eyes on Maggie) I'm sorry, Bob.  She kissed me back. 
MAGGIE (dazed but happy) I kissed him back. 
BOB Yeah, I caught that.  Want to tell me how long this has been going on? 
Maggie looks at Ike, wondrous, confused. 
MAGGIE About a minute...? 
IKE A little longer for me. 
MAGGIE Really? 
BOB What do you expect me to say to this? 
IKE How about -- "I hope you'll be very happy together"? 
Bob hauls back and punches Ike in the face.  Ike drops. 
BOB I hope you'll be very happy together. 
Bob storms down the aisle and out of the church. 
MAGGIE (to Peggy) Take care of him. 
Maggie leaves. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CHURCH - THAT MOMENT 
Bob is halfway down the walk.  Maggie appears at the church door and calls after him. 
MAGGIE Bob, I'm sorry! (half to herself) At least I backed out before the wedding.  That's progress! 
He takes the boutonniere and puts it on Ike's lapel. 
BOB (cont'd) I'm glad it's you. 
IKE Really? 
BOB I didn't want to find out I wasn't for her in the fourth quarter. 
IKE Got any last minute advice? 
BOB (motioning to their eyes) Maintain eye contact. 
Bob turns and leaves, going down a side staircase. 
IKE (to himself) Eye contact.  Eye contact. 
Out of the corner of his eye, Ike sees a pictures of Christ on the wall.  He leans into the picture and whispers. 
IKE (cont'd) Cover me. 
He walks into the chapel. 
INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUING 
Ike steps up and stands next to Fisher. 
FISHER (to Ike) I have no idea what I'm doing. 
IKE Your job is... the ring. (to Fisher) Do you have the ring?! 
FISHER I just found out I'm best man!  I'm lucky I have a suit... What's wrong? 
Ike gives the ring to Fisher.  The Pastor approaches Ike.  Ike turns away and look out over the guests. 
IKE'SPOV:  There are most of the TOWNSPEOPLE we've come to know, plus some NEW YORKERS for Ike, with little ponytails. Armani wire rims, Donna Karan bodysuits.  There's a lot of smirking, checking out the hicks, forming their stories for cocktail hour.  Elaine is in back all dressed in black, mourning Ike.  Mrs. Trout approaches Ike. 
MRS. TROUT You should thank Lou and I for the wedding car -- a '63 Buick. 
IKE Thank you. 
MRS. TROUT Oh, come on.  You're practically family. 
Mrs. Trout starts picking lint off Fisher's jacket. 
FISHER Hello.  I'm Fisher. 
MRS. TROUT This doesn't want to come out. 
FISHER You just pull a hair from my neck. 
IKE Mrs. Trout, go back to your seat! 
INT. CHURCH FOYER - DAY 
Peggy joins Maggie, who is blowing bubblegum and swaying in front of an oscillating fan.  Grandma and Walter come in. Grandma gives her a kiss on the cheek. 
GRANDMA JULIA Good luck, Maggie. 
MAGGIE Thank you, Grandma. 
Grandma leaves.  Walter steps up. 
WALTER (quietly to Maggie) I'm really rooting for this one. 
MAGGIE Thank you, Dad. 
Peggy turns off the fan.  Cindy takes the bag from Maggie. 
CINDY Spit. 
Maggie spits her bubblegum into the bag.  Peggy hands Maggie her bouquet. 
PEGGY Let's go. 
MAGGIE No sauntering down the aisle.  Just make time.  Let's just get there. 
Cindy and Peggy nod and leave.  The door closes. 
INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUING 
Both extends his hand to Elaine. 
ELAINE Hi, I'm Elaine from New York. 
BOB Hello.  I'm Bob, Maggie's fourth attempt. 
ELAINE I'm sorry. 
ANGLE ON: 
Ike as he gets to the window, but Maggie is out in driveway. 
EXT. CHURCH DRIVEWAY - CONTINUING 
Maggie flies toward a FedEx truck at next house just leaving. 
ANOTHER ANGLE: 
She gathers her dress and jumps in as Ike yells from window, then, quickly climbs out onto the lawn as the truck starts to pull away. 
IKE Maggie! 
Maggie looks back once, tearful and regretful, and disappears inside the truck.  The truck races off. 
The PHOTOGRAPHERS turn their cameras on Ike, en masse.  He is enveloped by a barrage of bright lights. 
Ellie and Fisher, who have also stepped outside on chapel front steps, are looking around as Ike turns around the corner and past the church. 
ELLIE Look, he's running after her. 
FISHER Look, he's in pretty good shape. 
ELLIE Poor Ike. 
They look after the FedEx truck and watch Ike chasing the truck down the road away from the church. 
IKE (running; yells) Maggie! 
ELLIE Where do you think she's going? 
FISHER Wherever it is, she'll be there by ten- thirty tomorrow. 
Cindy, Cory, Peggy and Meredith also rush out of the church and comment on Maggie's runaway.  Further down the road, Ike still chases the truck, yelling: 
IKE Maggie! 
As the truck rounds the bend in the road and disappears, Ike stops and stares alone after the disappearing truck.  A swarm of REPORTERS catch up to him, flashing pictures and asking questions.  Another camera flashes and we cut to: 
A NEWSPAPER PHOTO 
Of Ike's stunned face on the cover of the USA Today.  The caption reads: "Hit and Run:  Runaway Bride Strikes again".  And we see headlines in other papers. 
"MAGGIE'S MAD DASH" "HARDWARE HONEY GOES NUTS AND BOLTS" "JOURNALIST WRITTEN OFF" "BRIDE TAKES HIKE...NOT IKE" "BRIDE TAKE RIDE" "MAGGIE SAYS I DON'T" 
NEWSPAPER MONTAGE: 
INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY 
Kevin, the bartender, reads Jay's column, in the USA Today entitled "Maggie's Mad Dash". 
CUT TO: 
EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY 
Various newspaper WORKERS also read Jay's column in the USA Today entitled "Maggie Mad Dash" and "Hardware Honey Goes Nuts and Bolts" in another newspaper. 
FADE IN 
EXT. MAIN STREET/HALE - NIGHT (1-5 MONTHS LATER) 
It's a night like any other in Hale -- the regular order of things has been restored on its quaint streets.  Quartet sings in front of the hotel.  LEE AND CORY CHUFFA:  About where Peggy is. 
INT. HARDWARE STORE - NIGHT 
Maggie is sitting, end of a long day.  Peggy sticks her head in entrance door. 
PEGGY You okay?  I'm closing. 
MAGGIE I'm just finishing up, too. 
PEGGY Want to go to Butch's for a drink or something? 
MAGGIE (interrupting) No, I'm just going to head home. 
PEGGY Okay. 
Peggy starts to go, then moves close to Maggie. 
PEGGY (cont'd) (stepping closer and making a "V" with her fingers) You know, I was just thinking about that geese thing.  I think the "V" was half of a "W".  A "W" for... 
MAGGIE What are you talking about? 
PEGGY Wedding.  Wedding. (holding Maggie's face) You just have to get the rest of your ducks in a row. 
MAGGIE Thank you.  You still think that he was.... 
Ike quietly sits in bed writing and staring into space thinking. His cat sits on the windowsill. 
CUT TO: 
INT. MAGGIE'S WORKROOM/GYM - NIGHT 
Maggie jumps rope barefooted late at night. 
MAGGIE I need a plan... A plan to life... What would Bruce Lee do?  He'd kick some ass... 
CUT TO: 
INT. MAGGIE'S KITCHEN - DAY 
Maggie in front of plates full of all sorts of types of eggs -- scrambled, poached, sunny-side up, Benedict, soft boiled, etc -- sits on the kitchen counter.  She ties them all. 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY 
Establishing shot.  Two MEN try to fix the engine of a taxi outside the restaurant. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DUSK 
Eke walks by the T-shirt Vendor, goes into a subway station. 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DUSK 
Ike crosses a busy street where a MAN is being arrested.  Ike is passing the upscale "Millennium Hardware Store".  He glances at the window, looks away, stops and looks again.  The window display is made up of an assortment of Maggie's lamps.  Logo "MAG" is on them.  He smiles and walks on. 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK RESERVOIR - DUSK 
Ike stares out at water as he walks. 
EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT 
Ike walks along sidewalk, crosses street, enters his building. 
INT. IKE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Ike opens the door to his apartment and flicks on the lights.  He crosses to hang his coat in the closet.  In the closet mirror, he sees and is stunned to find:  MAGGIE, sitting on the couch holding Italics, the cat. 
MAGGIE Hello, Ike. 
He closes the closet and crosses to his desk. 
IKE Don't tell me.  My doorman is one of your many admires... I knew I should have given him a better Christmas gift. 
Maggie smiles tenuously.  She's more than a little terrified. 
MAGGIE I've been making friends with your cat. (then) Is it okay that I'm here? 
IKE I don't have much choice in the matter now, do I?  But I can't speak for Italics. (to Cat) Traitor! 
He moves to the kitchen. 
MAGGIE I don't blame you for being mad... 
Ike looks at her.  Apparently the word "mad" is an understatement. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) ... Or... furious. 
Ike looks at her again. 
MAGGIE (cont'd) ... Irate?  Livid?  How's that? 
He starts putting cat food in a bowl.  The cat leaves Maggie's side and starts to east. 
IKE Livid is good.  So what is it, Maggie? You here on business?  I saw your lamps. They're terrific. 
MAGGIE It's something I've always wanted to do. 
Ike leaves the kitchen, turns on the balcony lights and re-enters the living room from the balcony. 
IKE You actually could make breaking and entering into a new career. (after opening the glass doors) So, what are you doing here? 
MAGGIE I wanted to talk to you about why I run or ride away from things. 
Ike moves away from her and sits on the steps near the balcony window, listening. 
IKE (after sitting) Does it matter? 
MAGGIE I think so... When I was walking down the aisle?  I was  walking toward somebody who didn't have any idea who I really was.  And it was only half the other person's fault, because I had done everything to convince him that I was exactly what he wanted.  So it was good that I didn't go through with it because it would have been a lie, but you -- you knew the real me. 
IKE Yes, I did. 
MAGGIE I didn't.  And you being the one at the end of the aisle didn't just fix that. 
