SAW 
Written by 
James Wan & Leigh Whannell 
Darkness. 
The soft sound of moving water can be heard in the background. From the top of the screen a tiny, floating light moves its way downwards across the screen. As it passes, we see just under the water part of a young man’s face. His eyes are closed. The light disappears, and across the darkness appears the title S A W. The title fades away. 
The tiny light appears again, this time floating down at the end of a tub of water, just near someone’s bare foot. The camera cuts again to the face of the young man underwater. This is ADAM. Suddenly, his eyes fly open and he comes to life, opening his mouth and gasping for air. As he wakes up and struggles within the bathtub, we see his foot catch on a drain plug, unplugging it. The water starts to drain, and we see go with the water the tiny light, which we can also see has some kind of key attached to it. The room itself is pitch black, but we can still just barely make him out in the dark. Adam lifts himself out of the tub and falls onto the floor, coughing and gasping from the shock. He manages to get to his feet, but as he moves forward he realizes that his ankle is chained to something. He feels his way over to a pipe in the corner, reaching down and pulling at his chain that is attached to it. He cries out, his voice frantic, frightened, and a bit hysterical. 
ADAM Help! Someone help me! (He stops when he hears a loud dragging sound somewhere in the room. He looks out into the darkness and calls out.) Is someone there? Hey! (He turns back to the corner to which he is chained, says in a slightly softer but still panicked voice) Shit, I’m probably dead. 
Suddenly, from out within the darkness comes a man’s low, raspy voice. It startles Adam. The voice, we will soon learn, belongs to LAWRENCE. 
LAWRENCE You’re not dead. 
Adam quickly turns in the direction of the voice. Holding his arms out for balance, he tries to look across the room to whoever is speaking, but still cannot see a thing. 
ADAM Who’s that? Who’s that?! 
LAWRENCE (his voice strangely a bit on the calm side, and almost irritated with Adam’s reaction to the situation. This shall be his tone for many scenes to come.) There’s no point in yelling, I already tried it. 
ADAM Turn on the lights! 
LAWRENCE Would if I could. 
ADAM What the fuck is going on? Where am I? (He turns into his corner, touching the wall.) 
LAWRENCE I don’t know yet. 
ADAM (smelling something; in disgust) What is that smell? 
LAWRENCE Shh! Hang on a second, I think I found something. 
With a loud click and an even louder buzzing sound, the very bright fluorescent lights come to life, lighting up in rows, starting from Lawrence’s end and moving towards Adam. As they come on, Adam is nearly blinded by the sudden change from pitch black to bright white and squints in pain, holding up his arms to cover his face. In the light we now see that he is in his mid-twenties, with short brown hair, wearing a dark blue striped shirt over a white tee shirt and jeans, looking like a drowned rat from the tub. It takes him a moment but his eyes finally start to adjust, and he looks around the room. He and we see Lawrence, who also winces from the glare of the lights, standing by the light switch and the door. He is on the opposite end of the room, also chained to a pipe in the corner by his foot. He wears a blue button-down dress shirt, now soaked with sweat stains. He is middle aged, mid to late forties, with pale blonde hair and even paler skin. Dark circles are under his eyes. Both men are barefoot. 
Adam continues to pull at his chains, does not and will not look at the body, just shakes his head. 
ADAM (sharply) No. 
LAWRENCE (trying to get SOMETHING out of this kid) Well, do you have any idea how you got here? 
ADAM No. 
LAWRENCE What’s the last thing you remember? 
ADAM Nothing. (he sits back onto the floor, stops pulling at his chains for a moment.) I went to bed in my shithole apartment, and woke up in an actual shithole. (He raises his left leg slightly, starts trying to pull his foot out of the iron cuff. He glances to Lawrence, who has moved over to the wall to his left, bent over slightly and resting a hand against a pipe.) So what about you, huh? 
LAWRENCE (He shrugs slightly, shaking his head.) Well there’s...there’s not much to tell, really. (Across the room, Adam gives up with the chain for the time being but remains sitting on the floor.) I was on my way home from work and uh, I don’t remember anything else. 
Adam just sits there, glancing over to the body and then focusing on it much more. The initial panic has worn off for now, replaced simply with fear and shock. His voice is a bit softer. 
ADAM First dead body I’ve ever seen. Look different in real life. They don’t move. 
Lawrence slowly lowers himself into a sitting position against the wall. He pokes slightly at the iron cuff around his foot. 
LAWRENCE From the looks of these chains, someone didn’t want us to go very far either. 
Suddenly, Adam leaps up, lifting up his shirt and exposing his abdomen. His panic is back, but not at full force like before. He studies himself then glances to Lawrence. 
ADAM Can you see any scars? 
LAWRENCE (looking at him strangely) What? 
ADAM Huh? This is what they do man, (he gestures to his stomach, where there are in fact no scars.) They kidnap you and drug you and before you know it, you’re in a bathtub and your kidneys are on eBay. (A ridiculous theory to us and to Lawrence, but Adam states it with conviction.) 
LAWRENCE (a scoffing tone in his voice) No one has taken your kidneys. 
ADAM (disbelief) How can you tell from way over there? 
LAWRENCE (matter of fact) Because you’d either be in terrible agony, or you’d be dead by now. Trust me. 
ADAM What are you, a surgeon? (He lowers his shirt and turns and bends down to prod at the chain around the pipe again.) 
ADAM Fuck. (He leans over and picks up the key, then bends down and tries the key on the lock on his ankle, which doesn’t work. He tries the lock on the chains around the pipe. It isn’t working there either.) 
LAWRENCE (watching him) No? 
Adam gives up, drops the key onto the floor frustratedly, shaking his head. That’s when he looks over to the body again, and the shot closes up on the hand holding the tape recorder. A small loop handle juts out of the hand’s grip. Adam stands up, then bends down and picks up the tape on the floor, looking at it. He puts it back down then stretches himself flat out on the floor, trying to reach. Unfortunately, there is still a good three to four feet between him and the body. 
LAWRENCE Use your shirt. 
ADAM (gets back up to his knees) What? 
LAWRENCE Your shirt. 
Adam looks down at himself, then takes off the long sleeved blue shirt. He lays back down, holding the shirt by the ends of each sleeve, and throws it, trying to catch it on the tape recorder. It misses. He tries a second time; same result. 
LAWRENCE Come on... 
Adam tries again; it misses. It is just barely reaching. He pulls the shirt back, gets back up on his knees, aggravated. 
ADAM It won’t work. 
LAWRENCE (trying to get him to not give up yet) Well, look around, there must be something else you can use. 
ADAM (stands, ready to give up, skeptical) There’s nothing. 
LAWRENCE (insistent) Well there must be something! 
Adam looks around his area, then into the bathtub. He sees something, bends over, takes out the tub plug, which is attached to a long cord. He ties the cord around the sleeve of his shirt. He kneels down, holding out the shirt, aiming. 
LAWRENCE Come on, you can do it. 
Adam throws it, attempting to get the plug through the loop at the end of the tape recorder. He misses. 
LAWRENCE Come on, come on, again. 
He tries again and misses. On the third try, however, he gets the plug right through the loop. Lawrence smiles in relief. Adam very slowly pulls it back, dragging the tape recorder along the floor towards him. He picks it up, getting rid of the plug and dropping it and the shirt on the floor. He picks up the tape, pops it in and presses play, holding the tape recorder out a bit so that they can both hear, but keeping his head tilted so he can hear better. A chilling deep, raspy, sinister male voice The Jigsaw Killer comes from the tape. As it speaks, Adam’s expression is fearful, but the thought How does he know? can be detected. 
JIGSAW (on tape) Rise and shine, Adam. You’re probably wondering where you are. I’ll tell you where you might be. You might be in the room that you die in. Up until now, you simply sat in the shadows, watching others live out their lives. But what do voyeurs see when they look into the mirror? Now, I see you as a strange mix of someone angry and yet apathetic. But mostly just pathetic. So are you going to watch yourself die today, Adam? Or do something about it? (end) 
Lawrence stops the tape. 
ADAM What the hell does Follow your heart mean? 
Lawrence is looking around, on the walls and everywhere else in the bathroom for a heart. He spots a small one drawn in brown on the toilet next to Adam and points. 
LAWRENCE There! Right next to you, on the toilet. 
Adam looks, sees the toilet. Slowly, he bends down, resting his hands on the seat, looking down into the bowl of liquid shit, not really sure what he’s looking for. 
LAWRENCE (impatient, gesturing) Come on, come on. 
Adam glances up at Lawrence with a look of You’ve got to be kidding me, but Lawrence watches him expectantly. Adam sighs, then reaches in with his right hand, fishing around in the mess. 
ADAM Oh man...(he gasps, making gagging sounds, his face turned away from the bowl. He coughs, fishes around for another brief moment, then quickly pulls back, trying to shake some of the shit off of his hand, spitting. 
LAWRENCE (expectantly) Anything? 
ADAM (disgusted) No solids. 
LAWRENCE Take off the lid. (He points to the lid. Adam looks to it, slowly stands up, reaches for it. Lawrence has no patience.) Come on! 
Adam takes off the lid, places it down on the toilet seat. The water is clearer inside, and he reaches in and pulls out something wrapped up in a black garbage bag. He holds it up for Lawrence to see, turns to him. 
ADAM I really wish I had checked in there first. 
LAWRENCE Huh. (he smiles slightly) What is it? 
Adam tears into the bag, reaches in and pulls out two hacksaws. He drops the bag on the floor, bends down and takes up his chain, holding one of the hacksaws and beginning to saw at the chain with it. Lawrence watches him for a moment. 
LAWRENCE Hey! (Adam turns and looks. Lawrence speaks in an irritated voice) Mind passing me the other one? 
Adam reaches over and picks up the other hacksaw, then carefully throws it across the room. It hits the pipe to Lawrence’s left. Lawrence reaches down and picks it up, then sits down on the floor. Quick shot back to Adam, who, while Lawrence is preoccupied with picking up the hacksaw, quickly picks up the garbage bag and tosses it into the bathtub. Both men start to saw away at their chains furiously, but neither are making any progress. Suddenly, Adam’s saw snaps in the middle, and his temper flares. 
ADAM (enraged) Fuck! Fuck! (He reacts violently, hitting the broken saw twice against the iron pipe then turns and hums it across the room, right into a mirror. A small piece of the mirror breaks off and flies to the floor.) 
Lawrence glances over at what Adam has done, then goes back to sawing for another moment. Adam sits back down, breathing heavily, leaning against the pipe in his corner. Finally, Lawrence gives up, turning and sitting with his back against the pipe, also breathing heavily for a moment. He sits there, when a look of realization comes across his face. He holds up the saw, looking at it, understanding. He lowers it to the floor, shaking his head slightly. 
Suddenly from another corner of the room, a light comes on, revealing the puppet from the video in the corner. Amanda sees it, staring at it wide eyed, her sobs softening for a moment as she stares at it. Slowly, it wheels towards her on a tricycle. She can only stare and cry, not sure what to do or expect. It stops, leering at her, then speaks. 
JIGSAW Congratulations. You are still alive. Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. But not you. Not anymore. 
Cut back into a close up of Amanda in the interrogation room, her head still shaking a bit, almost like a series of slight spasms. She continues to sniffle, her eyes far off. Cut to Tapp. 
TAPP You are, in fact, a drug addict. Isn’t that right, Mandy? (she nods, but doesn’t look up.) Do you think that is why he picked you? (She lets out a sob, briefly nodding once.) Are you grateful, Mandy? 
She finally raises her head, looking into his eyes for the first time. 
AMANDA (softly) He...helped me. 
As she starts sniffling and breathing more heavily, Tapp looks over his shoulder into Lawrence’s room, right in his direction. He may not see him, but he knows he’s there. The camera then cuts back to Amanda, who starts sobbing more heavily again. Slowly, the camera moves down into and under the table, fading back into an overhead view of the bathroom where Lawrence and Adam are. 
Adam sits in his corner, staring down at the floor as he has been listening to Lawrence’s story. He looks up across to Lawrence. 
ADAM (softly) Are you sure it’s him? 
LAWRENCE (nods slightly) Yeah, I’m sure. 
ADAM (becoming a little hysterical again. He speaks accusingly) How do I know you’re telling the truth? You can be the one who put me in this room! (he gesticulates as he speaks, pointing to Lawrence and himself.) 
LAWRENCE (internal eye roll, speaks slowly, as to a simpleton) I’m in exactly the same situation you’re in. 
ADAM Wrong. (he stands up, kicking his chained foot out. Shouts.) Wrong! You’ve got one thing I don’t: Information! (He hovers as close as he can in a threatening pose, pointing) You know who did this! (He picks up a glass shard that fell when he broke the mirror, holds it up threateningly to Lawrence) Now you either tell me what is really going on (Lawrence rolls his eyes, turns his head over to his left, away from Adam) or I’ll cut you with this, you hear me? I’ll cut- (But he stops short as he sees something in the glass. He flips it over, studying it, flips it back. He looks over to the mirror on the wall, studying it, thinking.) 
Lawrence notices that Adam’s ranting has ended, glances over at him. 
LAWRENCE What? 
ADAM (looks over at Lawrence, then back at the mirror.) It’s a two-way mirror. 
Adam drops the shard down on the floor carefully, then reaches over to the corner behind him, leaning down and picking up a loose padlock. He lifts it up and throws it as hard as he can against the mirror, shattering most of the glass. Lawrence briefly startles at the sound and force of the glass shattering. Adam reaches back down, finds another piece of debris and throws that at the mirror with just as much force. The rest of the glass breaks away, and a camera with a red light can bee seen behind a clear glass. Lawrence stands up to get a better look at it. We movie in closer to the camera, getting a better look at it as well. 
Suddenly there is a flash of static and we find ourselves looking at a fuzzy, black and white surveillance video of Lawrence and Adam in the bathroom, staring right at us into the camera. The shot pulls back a bit and we see that the video is on a silver surveillance monitor. A partial view of other recording-type equipment can be seen on either side of the monitor. A man’s voice speaks, though it doesn’t sound quite the same as on the Jigsaw tapes. As he speaks, a hand wearing a black leather glove raises up slightly and waves its fingers at the screen. 
MAN (OS, Taunting) I can see you... 
DIANA He talked to me. 
ALISON (sighs) Okay, I’ll come and check your room. (She smiles a small, assuring smile) 
DIANA I want Daddy. He’ll get the scary man. 
ALISON (her smile fading a bit) Alright, if you want. Come on. 
She stands and leads Diana out of the room. Cut to Lawrence’s office. Lawrence sits hunched slightly over his laptop computer, focused on some paper he’s writing. Diana and Alison appear in the doorway to his left. He doesn’t even look up, just keeps typing. Alison’s tone when she speaks indicates that she knows he’ll probably say no, or put it off on her. 
ALISON Larry, sorry to bother you, but your daughter had a bad dream again. 
LAWRENCE (his eyes never leaving the screen; raises his finger to pause them) Just a minute. 
ALISON She wants you to check her room. 
LAWRENCE (keeps typing, never looks up) Mmm hmm, mmm hmm, just gotta finish this paragraph. 
Alison waits a moment, then turns to Diana. 
ALISON (softly) You know what sweetie? I’ll go check with you. 
They turn, slowly start to walk away as Lawrence quickly finishes typing, then closes the laptop. 
LAWRENCE Nope! I’m done. (he smiles, turning to look at them.) 
Cut to Diana’s room. Lawrence reaches over and turns on the lamp on Diana’s side table. Diana lies in bed, slightly propped up against her pillows and stuffed animals. Lawrence sits on the side of her bed. 
LAWRENCE (very reassuringly) See? (he pulls the covers up over her, up to her chest.) There’s no one in your room. There’s no such thing as the bad man. Now can you go to sleep? 
DIANA I’m still scared. 
LAWRENCE You are? Give me your tootsie. (He pulls back the covers and she pulls out her foot. He takes it in his hand.) Oh, what a big tootsie. (He turns to her, raising his eyebrows up) Remember this one? (He counts on her toes as he says the following) This little piggy went to market, this little piggy stayed home, this little piggy had roast beef, this little piggy had none, and this little piggy went ‘Weeee!’ (he tickles up her leg to her tummy and she giggles) all the way home! 
Just then, Lawrence’s beeper goes off. He leans back, takes it out and looks at it. 
DIANA I hate that thing. 
ALISON (confrontational) That is complete bullshit. (cut to a shot of Diana, laying on her side in her darkened room, clutching her teddy bear to her chest. Her eyes are open, she can hear everything. We stay with her for the rest of Alison’s line, her voice now off a bit in the distance but still very audible) I’d rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least there’d be some passion in it. 
LAWRENCE Would you like to see her? (He reaches into his pocket and takes out his wallet, throws it across the room to Adam, who is sitting with his back against the wall, facing Lawrence. Adam picks up the wallet and opens it. He sees two pictures of Diana, side by side. The one on the left is Diana hugging a dog. The one on the right is a smiling portrait outside somewhere. 
ADAM She’s beautiful. 
LAWRENCE Thank you. 
ADAM (sighs, then looks up at Lawrence) You gonna have any more kids? 
LAWRENCE (a bit wearily, but not snobby) We’ve talked about it, but uh, with our schedules, it’s difficult enough to concentrate on one. (The tone of his voice indicates that maybe he’s starting to realize that he should’ve spent more time and attention to his daughter.) 
ADAM (referring to the wallet) So where’s the lucky wife? (a small smile) 
LAWRENCE There’s another picture behind the one you’re looking at. (Adam reaches behind the photo on the right and pulls another photograph out. Lawrence smiles slightly as he speaks) It’s my favourite one because we’re all in it together. Someone, usually me, has to hold the camera, which means I’m always missing from the photos. 
Cut to Adam, looking at the picture he pulled out. His face is blank, but you can sense great disturbance behind it. Cut to a shot of the photo he is holding. It is not the one Lawrence described, but a Polaroid of Alison and Diana bound and gagged, and the message Regards with a jigsaw piece drawn next to it. He turns the photo over, and there is a message. As he reads it, Jigsaw reads it aloud in a voiceover. 
JIGSAW (VO) X Marks the spot. Sometimes you see more with your eyes shut. 
Adam does his best to hide what he has seen, looks up to Lawrence. 
ADAM It’s uh, it’s not here. 
LAWRENCE (a slight disturbance from his momentary nostalgic bliss) What? 
ADAM Uh, this photo you’re talking about...it’s not here. 
LAWRENCE (slightly surprised, reaching out his hand for Adam to toss the wallet.) Really? Are you sure? 
ADAM Yeah. (Tucking the picture in his right hand, he shifts slightly by lifting himself a bit with his right hand, sneakily putting the photograph down and tossing the wallet with his left hand. Lawrence picks up the wallet and starts looking for it, creasing his brow in concern, while Adam backs up against his wall, holding the photograph out of Lawrence’s sight against a pipe he rests his arm on as he looks at the photograph.) 
LAWRENCE (disbelief, shaking his head) He...he must’ve taken it. I... 
Alison’s voice over is heard as he says this and continues to look through the wallet, and we hear Alison’s voiceover from the scene in the main hall. 
ALISON (VO) How can you walk through life pretending that you’re happy? 
TAPP I never should have let you go... 
Camera pans up to a wall of articles, all about the Jigsaw killings. It moves quickly and zooms in on each headline we see. Jigsaw hunt brings D.A. before Judge, Missing Man discovered at Bizarre Crime Scene screaming is heard then a quick flashback shot of Paul in his cage, first struggling against the wire then hanging dead in his cage Killer ‘Preaching’ Says Top Cop, Psychopath Teaches Sick Life Lessons, quick shot of Mark going around looking for the code on the walls, with the sound of his screaming over the shot, Escape, Victim Survives Maniac’s Game quick flashback footage of Amanda in the interrogation room, then fighting with her mask, and a shot of Lawrence watching and listening to her testimony, Doctor Questioned in Case flash of shots of Lawrence being questioned by the Tapp and Sing and then his Lawyer. It ends on the flashback shot of Tapp looking back at Lawrence through the two-way glass after Amanda tells her story, and the shot slides into a shot of a car pulling up alongside a building. 
TAPP (VO, fading, hushed against soundtrack) I never should’ve let you go... 
The car pulls up alongside a building, with Lawrence in the passenger seat, and Tapp driving. Lawrence’s awkwardness, Tapp’s distrust, and general uncomfortable tension can be easily detected between them. 
LAWRENCE (Pretending like he’s trying to be helpful, really just glad to be out of Tapp’s company) Here we are. That was uh, quite an amazing story that poor woman told. (Tapp just nods, says nothing. Lawrence smiles very uncomfortably, gets out of the car.) 
LAWRENCE (leaning down and looking back into the car window.) Look, I’m sorry I can’t be of more help to your investigation. 
TAPP (nods very slightly) You know, we arrested a dentist last week who like to play with kids a bit too much. He lived two blocks from here. The sewer lines run under this neighborhood too, Doctor. (hint hint) 
Lawrence stands straight up, walks away. Tapp wait’s a moment, then drives off. 
BAM into static and then the video from Amanda’s cell. We are not at Tapp’s desk in the police station, watching him obsessively watch the video, staring at the screen, remote control in hand. As he watches, the camera circles around behind the television to give us a better view of our obsessed detective. 
JIGSAW (from the video) Hello Amanda. You don’t know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Here’s what happens if you lose. There’s a timer at the back of the device you’re wearing. When the timer goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open. 
In the background of the station we hear a couple of detectives talking, then Sing walks in behind Tapp, over to his own desk. He turns, watching Tapp watch the screen. Tapp stops and rewinds the tape. 
SING (to the other detectives leaving) I’ll catch you guys down there. (he reaches over and gets something off of his desk) 
JIGSAW (from video) Think of it like a reverse bear trap. 
Tapp fast forwards a bit, hits play. 
JIGSAW (from video) I’ll show you... 
Tapp watches closely the demonstration of the timer then the device going off and exploding. Sing watches too, not paying as close attention. As soon as it explodes, Sing speaks. The look on his face and the tone of his voice indicates his growing concern for his partner’s obsession over this case. 
SING Hey Tapp? 
Tapp doesn’t look up, resembles Lawrence in the earlier scene when Alison and Diana came to him to check her room while he was working on his paper. 
TAPP Mmm? 
TAPP Now listen to this. 
They listen with the volume up high. Over the static, the sound of a fire alarm can just barely be heard in the background. They look at each other. Tapp hits stop. 
TAPP (looking up at Sing) We gotta check the records from all the fire emergencies that occurred there in the last two weeks. Go, right now! Mmm! 
Sing turns and quickly walks off. 
CUT TO Close up of a map, with Sing speaking in a voiceover. As he speaks, there’s a brief shot of the two of them sitting over the map, then quick shots of a few black and white photographs of a warehouse, including a close up of a street sign Stygian St. 
SING (VO) On the night of Tuesday, the 17th, we got a fire alarm going off in the rear wing of 213 Stygian Street. It’s an old listing. Used to be a mannequin factory. (cut back to view of the two detectives) You think we have enough for a warrant, though? 
TAPP Who said anything about a warrant? (He grins, gets up and grabs his jacket.) 
SING (are you serious?) Right now? 
TAPP Why not? 
SING Yeah, why not? (He grabs his gun, snaps a cartridge into it, grabsup his coat, and quickly follows Tapp. 
Brief shot of K2K graffiti on the video and then loud static, which snaps into an exterior nighttime view of an old warehouse building and a car speeding by. Our view is from inside the car as it pulls up alongside the building. A police radio can be heard in the background. So can the sound of a gun being loaded and cocked. 
TAPP (VO) At least we’ll have the cover of darkness. 
SING (VO) Yeah, well, so will anybody else. 
A shot of inside the factory, various clutter and tables piled up on one another. No signs of life...yet. A bang from the outside of the door is heard. A couple more bangs and a shot of the giant, sliding wooden door as it slides open, and Sing steps in, holding out his shotgun, ready for anything waiting for them. Cut up to a staircase, lit by eerie green light, the same as from Paul‘s razor wire room, as the detectives make their way up cautiously, Tapp in front, Sing covering behind them. They come up another level, one that has been recently used we see as Tapp points over to a desk with a computer, a radio, and some other miscellaneous items. Then, right next to the desk, we see the K2K graffiti from the video. 
TAPP I got you... 
They continue on, moving into a room separated with a chain link fence. There is a slightly raised platform, going along part of the wall, with a few steps leading up on either side. Tapp goes up the steps. On the raised area are some tables covered in heavy red cloth. Tapp points to one, reaches down, and pulls back the covering. He reveals a small diorama of the bathroom scene where Adam and Lawrence dolls, complete with the body, dolls representing each of them. 
TAPP What the hell is this?.......(his voice almost a whisper) Oh shit... 
They move onto the next table, and Tapp pulls back the cloth covering that one, revealing the leering Puppet from Amanda’s video. Tapp stares at it wide-eyed. Next to the puppet is a strange, boar-like mask with long dark hair. The camera pans back so we have the view of another large object covered in red cloth that Tapp and Sing had passed by. Tapp leans in closer to look at the puppet, when suddenly the still-covered form starts to move and muffled moaning sounds are heard. It startles the detectives. 
SING Oh fuck! 
TAPP Hold it right there! Don’t move! 
SING Put your fucking hands in the air! 
Jigsaw slowly raises his hands, starts to turn to face them but then quickly steps down hard on a red button on the floor, and the drill trap on Jeff’s chair comes to life. He remains with his back mostly to them, hands still raised. 
JIGSAW Now you’ll make a choice. (Sing runs up the steps to try to where Jigsaw is, gun aimed at him. Tapp remains where he stands.) In 20 seconds, the life of this man will be ended. 
TAPP Shut up and get down here! 
SING (keeping his gun steadily aimed) What did you do? Turn it off! 
Jeff in the meantime is struggling in his seat as the drills come closer. 
TAPP Sing, stop that thing! I’m taking this bastard down. (Sing tosses Tapp the shotgun.) Move! 
SING (to Jigsaw) How do you turn it off?! 
TAPP Tell him how to stop it! 
Jigsaw backs up a bit towards the stairs. 
JIGSAW One key will unlock it. 
SING (frantic) Where is it?! 
JIGSAW It’s in the box. 
SING Box! (He sees a box on the side of the chair and opens it. Inside he pulls out a ring of at least 30 keys, and goes over to behind Jeff to try to unlock the device. He tries a couple of keys, none working.) Fuck! Which key, which key?! 
TAPP Tell him which key it is! 
JIGSAW (now facing Tapp, moving closer to him. His back is to us, we still don’t see his face.) Time is running out. 
TAPP Shut up and get down here right now, asshole! 
Jigsaw slowly moves down towards him more. 
On his knees, Sing remains upright for a moment, spasming more. We go to a shot of Jigsaw on the floor. Jigsaw starts moving and gets himself up to his feet, and starts hobbling further down the hall. Sing’s body finally falls forward onto the floor, spasming still. Tapp continues down the stairs, falling against the wall a couple of times. We see Jigsaw as he gets to the end of the hall and starts sliding a large door open. 
At that moment, Tapp reaches the bottom of the stairs and turns into the hallway, collapsing back into a sitting position on the stairs. Jigsaw hobbles through the door and starts to go left. Tapp sits up a bit and looks down the hall, where he sees Sing, who has stopped spasming. His eyes widening, Tapp removes the hand from his throat and reaches forward towards Sing, his mouth opening and moving but no sound other than some gasping coming out. The shot fades to a slow-paced black and white, and then snaps into a few crime scene photos of Sing’s body, including a nice gory one of the top of his head, part of which is now missing. 
At the last photoflash, we cut back to a shot of Tapp presently, sitting on his couch. The shot shows a good view of the scar across his neck. 
TAPP (weak, desperate) Had you...had you on your knees. (He sits forward, getting some things off the coffee table) You’re running. You’re running...(He gets up and goes over to the desk in the corner with the audio recording device and dozens of photos pinned to the wall, takes a seat) You’re running scared because we had you. I’m going to close this case. Ram close it. (He picks up a small framed photograph, which we can’t see, but likely, it’s of Sing.) Right, Sing? Right? We’re gonna close it, Sing. 
LAWRENCE X Marks the spot...(He stands, touching the pipe and looking up and around a bit.) X marks the spot...we need to search this room again. (He turns and looks over at Adam.) What are you doing over there? 
Cut back into regular view in the bathroom, with a shot of Adam sitting on the tub, holding the photograph of Alison and Diana just beneath the edge of the inside of the tub, looking down at it. He ignores Lawrence, flipping the photo over. 
LAWRENCE (irritated) Excuse me? 
ADAM (glancing up; calm irritation) Just because I’m stuck in this room with you doesn’t mean I have to report to you every ten seconds. 
LAWRENCE (sighs) I really don’t see the point in us not helping one another. 
ADAM well what do you want me to do? I’m on a leash. 
LAWRENCE That’s exactly why we need to talk. We need to think! 
ADAM I am thinking! 
LAWRENCE (snapping at him) Well then don’t keep me in the dark about what you’re thinking! 
There is a pause as something about that statement strikes Adam. 
ADAM Turn off the lights. 
LAWRENCE What? 
ADAM (letting the photo fall into the tub as he stands) Turn them off now, please! 
LAWRENCE (doesn’t get it) Why? 
ADAM (impatiently) Just turn them off for a second! 
LAWRENCE (VO) Last night, after I finished at the hospital. (fade into another closer shot of the cars, and Lawrence walking down the corridor, carrying his briefcase.) I was walking back to my car. (He stops a moment) I thought I was alone, but I’m sure someone else was there. (He squints, bringing his hand up over his eyes. There is a flash from the side. He looks up, startled, looking in the direction in which he thinks it came from, but sees nothing. He looks around him for another moment, then continues forward to his car.) 
Cut to a shot within a circular overhead mirror of Lawrence’s car pulling up to an abandoned security gate station. He gets out of the car, shutting the door and going over to a phone on the wall to dial security to let him out. When he dials, though, it gives him a busy signal. As it beeps, we cut to another shot of his car in the mirror. The back door on the passenger side starts to slowly open. Back to Lawrence, who hangs up the phone, aggravated, and reaches into his pocket for his cell phone. He opens it and dials. Back in the mirror, we see something get out of the car on its hands and knees. It is in a red robe and has a strangely shaped head with long, tangly dark hair. Lawrence finishes dialing, holds the phone to his ear but receives the same beeping tone as the phone in the bathroom, indicating that he cannot make outgoing calls. Perplexed, he holds up the phone, trying to get a better signal. Alongside the car, the thing moves even closer now. It gets up slowly. We see that it is wearing the strange boar mask previously seen in the flashback of Jigsaw’s workshop. It suddenly rushes upon him as he’s distracted with his phone and grabs him. 
Cut back to Lawrence sitting on the floor in the bathroom, still holding the phone. 
LAWRENCE (His eyes distant, off in his memory) That...thing. It was waiting for me. (He exhales sharply, then looks back up at Adam. Adam is just standing there, staring at him. Something seems a bit...off. With a suspicious tone, Lawrence addresses him.) How did you know to turn off the lights? 
ADAM Who cares? It worked. 
LAWRENCE Yeah, but how did you know? 
ADAM (a slight pause) Instinct. (His tone is far from believable.) 
LAWRENCE (doesn’t believe a word of it) Instinct? 
ADAM Yeah. 
LAWRENCE You know what? (he looks down, then back up at Adam.) You’re a terrible liar. 
ADAM (quiet offense) You say that like you know me. 
LAWRENCE (speaks calmly, but anger lies underneath the surface) What else aren’t you telling me? 
ADAM (cocky and sarcastic) Well, um, let’s see. On my sixth birthday, my best friend at that time, Scott Tibbs, stabbed me with a rusty nail. I didn’t tell you about that. I didn’t’ tell you that my last girlfriend, (Lawrence lowers his head into his hands. Un-FUCKING-believable) who was a feminist vegan punk, broke up with me because she thought I was too angry. Uh, I haven’t told you that one of my toenails is slightly... 
LAWRENCE (snaps at him, fed up) Just stop it. You knew to turn off these lights. 
ADAM (turning away from Lawrence) What-ever. 
LAWRENCE (stands up, frustrated.) I’m dealing with a juvenile. 
ADAM (has had it, looks right at him) You wanna know? 
LAWRENCE (exasperated) Yeah! 
Adam leans down and reaches into the bathtub, pulls out and holds up the picture of Alison and Diana. 
ADAM (he shrieks in pain and shock) Jesus Christ!! 
Lawrence’s reaction is not one of concern; he simply can’t believe that Adam just screwed up the plan. 
LAWRENCE (disbelief) What? 
ADAM (wide eyed) I just got electrocuted! 
LAWRENCE What? (he rolls his eyes. Unbelievable. He speaks in a hushed tone.) That was our way out! 
Adam looks at him in shock, cannot believe Lawrence would think he’d make something like that up. 
ADAM (yelling at him) Did you hear what I said? (he desperately grabs at the manacle around his ankle, pulling at it and shrieking) Get this thing off me! Get it off! 
LAWRENCE (pissed off) Stop acting! 
ADAM (stops pulling at the manacle and chains; now he’s pissed at Lawrence for his disbelief) You think I would make that up just to mess up your stupid fucking charade? 
LAWRENCE (gives up on Adam, frustrated once more) All right, that’s it! (He leans over and picks up his saw, sits down and starts trying to saw through his chains again, grunting. Adam, in the meantime, just sits back against the wall, breathing heavily, looking dazed. Lawrence continues to franticly saw, but it doesn’t work. He gets pissed off and throws the blade down.) Ah, Damn it!! 
Back to Adam, still looking dazed. Suddenly, a look of realization dawns upon his face. The electrocution has jogged his memory. 
ADAM (wide-eyed) I remember everything now. (Lawrence glances over at him.) I remember how I got here. 
Flashback to Adam walking up the stairs in his apartment building, a camera around his neck, smoking a cigarette and listening to music on his headphones. He walks with an uncaring, slow swagger. He gets to the top of the stairs and walks down a red-lit hallway to his apartment. He goes inside, closing the door behind him then moving into the kitchen area, throwing his keys onto the table and opening the fridge. The entire apartment is very rundown, decrepit, dingy and old; truly a shithole apartment as Adam described it earlier. There is graffiti on the door and walls, the wallpaper is fading and peeling, the refrigerator is dirty. 
Adam opens the fridge and looks inside for a moment. He sighs, then closes the door. He heads over to his darkroom, closing the door behind him. The lighting is dark red. He puts the camera down on the table, taking the strap off from around his neck, takes off his headphones and cd player, presses stop and puts them down off to the side. He sighs tiredly and goes over to a tray where a photo is developing and picks it up with his fingers, ganging it with a closepin on a hanging line with other photos. It is a picture of a man wearing sunglasses. The man is in fact Lawrence. To the left of that one is a shot of Lawrence in the parking garage with his hand over his eyes. 
The camera cuts to a shot of the newest photo through a peephole in the darkroom door as the camera fades out and back, viewing the grafittied door of the darkroom before the shot fades to black, industrial music playing over the shot. 
Cut to Adam sleeping in the now pitch-black darkroom, his head down on the table. He wakes up abruptly, as though he hadn’t meant to fall asleep. He looks around, confused, wondering why all the lights out. He gives a Great, another problem type of sigh. He stands and yawns, reaching over for the lightswitch. He moves it up and down a few times, but nothing happens. Another aggravated sigh. He reaches down and finds a flashlight on the counter, presses the on button but it doesn’t work. Pissed, he shakes it hard, trying to get it to come on, but that doesn’t work. He looks at it, scoffs. 
ADAM Great. 
Suddenly, he hears something move outside the door, somewhere in his apartment. On alert, he listens. He looks down and picks up his camera, slinging it around his neck and holding it out in front of him. He opens the creaky door into his also pitch-black apartment. He takes a few steps forward, speaks nervously, but trying to be brave. 
ADAM Is someone there? (he takes a picture, the flash lighting up the area in front of him.) I can hear you. (He takes another picture, the flash lighting up a living room area. Nothing yet. He moves forward more, into the kitchen entryway, snapping away for light.) 
Zep puts the phone up to Alison’s ear. 
ALISON Larry? 
LAWRENCE Ally? Is that you? (We see a shot of Alison giving a threatening look through her tears to Zep.) 
ALISON Is Adam there? 
LAWRENCE (surprised, looks to Adam, who continues to watch him worriedly) How do you know? Ally, what is going on? 
ALISON (through her sobs, trying to calm them and get this message to him) Don’t believe Adam’s lies. He knows you. He knew all about you before today. (Zep quickly takes the phone away, hangs up. Cut back to the bathroom, Lawrence on the phone.) 
LAWRENCE (a dial tone is heard from the other end hanging up. Lawrence is desperate) Hello? Ally? Ally? (No answer, just the dial tone. He stands up.) Hello? (He looks to the surveillance camera, screaming) God damn you! If you so much as lay a finger on them, I’ll kill you! You hear me? You son of a bitch! I’ll kill you! (He sits down, leaning forward over the floor, crying a bit. He slams his fist fiercely against the floor.) 
ADAM (quietly, as though cautiously approaching a dangerous animal) Are they okay? 
LAWRENCE (sits up. His voice is calmer, but rage is clearly underneath the surface) My wife, she uh, she mentioned your name. 
ADAM (a brief Oh shit look appears in his eyes, but he acts surprised) What did she say? 
LAWRENCE (not looking at him yet. Speaks very firmly, trying to suppress his rage.) She told me...not to believe you. 
ADAM (cannot even look at Lawrence.) Believe me about what? (There is no doubt he’s hiding something) 
LAWRENCE (Finally turns to look at him, the look of 1000 deaths) She told me you knew me. (He stands, looming menacingly, the look stronger on his face) Who are you? 
ADAM (still trying to cover up and losing, still not making eye contact) You know who I am. 
LAWRENCE (snaps, shouting at him) Stop the lies! You’re a liar! I need to know the truth! 
ADAM (His tone changes, he’s had it with hiding, had it with Lawrence) I’m a liar? (Finally, he looks up, right at Lawrence. His voice is firm and accusing.) What did you do last night, Lawrence? Work at a hospital? Saving sick children? You told me that after you left your house last night, you went to work at a hospital. 
LAWRENCE (defensively) That’s because it’s the truth. 
ADAM (almost deadly) No it’s not. Your wife is right, Larry. (Lawrence is now the one wearing the Oh shit look.) You don’t recall getting your picture taken in that parking lot? 
Brief flashback shot of Lawrence in the parking garage, pausing and covering his eyes for a moment when the camera flashed. We see a shot of Adam holding the camera and taking the shot from around a corner, ducking back behind the column. Lawrence looks up at the flash, startled. 
The voice on the other end is male, slightly raspy. It is unidentifiable; it could be either Tapp or Zep, or someone else. It is very accusing. 
VOICE I know what you’re doing...Doctor. 
LAWRENCE I- (but the other person hangs up, and a dial tone is heard) 
Lawrence hangs up the phone, turns and moves to the door. Carla moves with him, watching, waiting for him to say who it was. 
LAWRENCE (nervous) I have to go. 
CARLA What happened? 
LAWRENCE I’ve got to go. (He picks up his briefcase from the chair, and heads out the door. 
Cut to the underground parking lot, the same shot as where Adam took Lawrence’s picture. He walks along, pauses to wince and cover his eyes, then the flash. He looks up startled. 
The shot cuts back to Lawrence leaning forward against the wall in his corner, hand against a pipe. He slowly looks up at Adam, thinking of something. 
LAWRENCE Who was it? 
ADAM Who was what? 
LAWRENCE The person who paid you to follow me, who was it? 
ADAM (internal shrug) He calls himself Bob and he gives me the money up front. Two hundred bucks a night. If I’d have known I was gonna end up here, I would’ve asked for a hell of a lot more. 
LAWRENCE (pissy) What does that mean? Does that mean you saw what happened to me? 
ADAM (internal eye roll; speaks as though he’s been over this 100 times before) What I saw was you get into your car. That’s it. I didn’t ask your name. I didn’t know who you were. I don’t know how I got here, I don’t know how you got here. I just took the shots (As he speaks, a quick flashback of Adam taking a picture, going up apartment stairs, then in the darkroom) and went straight home to develop the. Next thing I know I’m chained to a pipe in some prehistoric bathroom, staring at the guy I’ve been taking shots of all night. 
LAWRENCE (seeing a major break in this mystery) Clearly, whoever paid you to take the pictures of me is the one who put is in here. 
ADAM (they don’t know that for sure) Maybe. 
LAWRENCE Maybe? What do you mean maybe? Of course it is! What did he look like? 
ADAM (internal shrug) I don’t know, he was just a guy. (Shot of inside Adam’s apartment and an unidentifiable figure towards the back of the room, the image darkened so we can’t make him out. The figure slowly takes a step towards us/Adam) 
A pause, then Lawrence collapses onto the floor. He’s lost the last of any strength, level headedness or control he had before. 
LAWRENCE (weakly) How did I get here? (Adam sits down on the pipe in his corner, leaning forward a bit.) I had...I had everything in order. (he lays down on his side, facing Adam, who watches him with sympathy) My whole life was in perfect order. (He holds up and looks at the picture of Alison and Diana gagged.) 
Cut to the Gordons’ Bedroom. Zep puts Alison’s gag back on her, then leaves the room. Alison moves her head around to loosen the gag then spits it out. She tries to fight her sobs as she speaks softly to Diana. 
ALISON Sweetheart, are you okay? (Diana shakes her head no) Mommy just needs you to be really, really, really strong right now. I’m not gonna let anybody hurt you. You got that? (Diana nods) Okay, that’s my good girl. (She starts crying as her hands work behind her to loosen the rope around them.) 
Cut back to Adam in the bathroom, looking up slightly from his position. He glances back down at the photographs on the floor, notices something odd about one of them. He furrows his brow and gets down on his hands and knees, reaching over and picking it up, leaning back and looking at it, studying it. Camera cuts to a shot of Lawrence through the black and white surveillance camera, sitting on the floor. Adam’s next line is a voice over over this shot. 
ADAM Hey, was there someone else at your house last night besides your wife and daughter? 
LAWRENCE (on camera) No. 
ADAM (still on camera) Well, there’s someone here. (He tosses the photo to Lawrence, whosits up, picks it up and looks at it. After a moment, the shot cuts back to a regular view of them, in the room.) 
LAWRENCE (realization) I know him. (We see the photo as well. It is a shot looking up into Lawrence’s window, with Zep standing there, looking out, completely unaware of his picture being taken.) Zep! (Cut to a shot of Zep listening. The shot goes back and forth between him as his eyes widen while Lawrence makes his threats.) His name is Zep. He’s an orderly at my hospital. (his voice becomes a growl, furious) Zep. You perverted little psychopath. I’m gonna take great pleasure in seeing you pay for this! You bastard fuck! 
Suddenly the shot cuts to Adam, who looks up at the clock with a very worried look. He points up to it. 
ADAM Look. (Lawrence momentarily breaks from his Zep rage, looks up. The clock reads at 6:00.) We’re out of time. 
DIANA (crying) Mommy help me! 
Alison continues to untie her. Cut to Zep, getting up from his chair, turning to go into the bedroom. Alison hears him moving near, sees his form through the frosted glass doors. She quickly replaces Diana’s gag and then her own, and resumes her position with her hands behind her back just as the doors open and Zep steps into the room. He looks down at them, raises his eyebrows slightly. He seems to have gotten himself together, ready to just do what has to be done. He takes the gun from his belt and leans down next to Alison. He looks at her with wide eyes, shakes his head sadly. He speaks calmly. 
ZEP Dr. Gordon’s time is up. Now I’ve gotta do what I’ve gotta do, and...I’m afraid it has to be you that tells him he failed. (He undoes her gag, holds the phone to her head and his gun in front of her chest.) 
Quick cut to the bathroom, where Lawrence is still looking at the slightly crumpled picture of Zep in the window. The phone rings, startling them both. Lawrence quickly answers it. 
LAWRENCE (speaking quickly, the growling voice) Is that you Zep, you bastard!? (Adam gets up from his corner, moves forward slightly) I know its you, you son of a bitch! 
ALISON Larry? 
LAWRENCE (his eyes widen, his fierce tone replaced with worry) Ally? 
Cut into the bedroom. 
Back to Zep and Tapp, who continue struggling from the gun. Zep squeezes his way down, groaning as he suddenly drops down between Tapp and the wall, his gun aimed up at Tapp. He pulls the trigger and the shot hits Tapp in the chest, a loud surprise to the former detective. 
Back in the bathroom, Lawrence crawls along the floor, moaning. He finds and picks up the single bullet from his envelope, looks at it. Adam watches him in terror. 
ADAM (screaming/crying) What are you doing?! (Lawrence crawls on farther, towards the body.) 
Cut back to a close up of the bloody hole in Tapp’s chest. Tapp remains standing a moment, in shock, gasping, then falls down backwards onto the floor. Zep is still on his knees, holding the gun up at a diagonal. Tapp’s eyes flutter, then finally close. Zep turns and gets up, limping in pain out of the room and down another hall. 
Back in the bathroom, Lawrence reaches the body. He takes the gun, opens the chamber. 
ADAM What are you...(He suddenly realizes Lawrence’s intentions. His eyes go wide, and he starts to cry out and beg.) 
ADAM Oh my God! Oh my God! Lawrence don’t! (Lawrence puts the bullet in, then closes the chamber) No! Lawrence, please, I’m begging you! (Lawrence aims the gun at Adam) Lawrence, it’s not me who did this to you! 
LAWRENCE (looking like Death, his voice hoarse) You have to die. 
ADAM (His hands up in front of him defensively, moving side to side to try to throw off Lawrence’s aim) No, I want to live! 
LAWRENCE (moving the gun along with Adam’s movements) I’m sorry... 
ADAM I want to live! 
LAWRENCE My family...(he aims and pulls the trigger, hitting Adam in the upper chest area. Adam falls down forward onto the floor, his screams stop.) 
Lawrence collapses, sobbing. Then he sits up a bit, turning to the surveillance camera and screaming. 
LAWRENCE I’ve done it! Now show them to me! (he continues to cry, dropping the gun next to him, collapsing back down with his forehead to the floor.) 
Cut to the Gordon’s neighbors’ living room. Alison paces back and forth, holding a cell phone to her ear. Two neighbors sit off to the side on a couch with Diana. 
NEIGHBOR (OS, on phone) Thank you very much, Officer. 
ALISON (on cell phone) Larry? 
NEIGHBOR (hanging up the phone and going over to Alison) Did you get through to him? 
ALISON There’s still no answer. 
