SCHINDLER'S LIST 
"SCHINDLER'S LIST" 
BY 
Steven Zaillian 
Final Draft 
IN BLACK AND WHITE: 
TRAIN WHEELS grinding against track, slowing. FOLDING TABLE LEGS scissoring open. The LEVER of a train door being pulled. NAMES on lists on clipboards held by clerks moving alongside the tracks. 
CLERKS (V.O.) ...Rossen... Lieberman... Wachsberg... 
BEWILDERED RURAL FACES coming down off the passenger train. 
FORMS being set out on the folding tables. HANDS straightening pens and pencils and ink pads and stamps. 
CLERKS (V.O.) ...When your name is called go over there... take this over to that table... 
TYPEWRITER KEYS rapping a name onto a list. A FACE. KEYS typing another name. Another FACE. 
CLERKS (V.O.) ...you’re in the wrong line, wait over there... you, come over here... 
A MAN is taken from one long line and led to the back of another. A HAND hammers a rubber stamp at a form. Tight on a FACE. KEYS type another NAME. Another FACE. Another NAME. 
CLERKS (V.O.) ...Biberman... Steinberg... Chilowitz... 
As a hand comes down stamping a GRAY STRIPE across a registration card, there is absolute silence... then MUSIC, the Hungarian love song, "Gloomy Sunday," distant... and the stripe bleeds into COLOR, into BRIGHT YELLOW INK. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - CRACOW, POLAND - NIGHT 
The song plays from a radio on a rust-stained sink. 
The light in the room is dismal, the furniture cheap. The curtains are faded, the wallpaper peeling... but the clothes laid out across the single bed are beautiful. 
The hands of a man button the shirt, belt the slacks. He slips into the double-breasted jacket, knots the silk tie, folds a handkerchief and tucks it into the jacket pocket, all with great deliberation. 
A bureau. Some currency, cigarettes, liquor, passport. And an elaborate gold-on-black enamel Hakenkreuz (or swastika) which the gentleman pins to the lapel of his elegant dinner jacket. 
He steps back to consider his reflection in the mirror. He likes what he sees: Oskar Schindler -- salesman from Zwittau -- looking almost reputable in his one nice suit. 
Even in this awful room. 
INT. NIGHTCLUB - CRACOW, POLAND - NIGHT 
A spotlight slicing across a crowded smoke-choked club to a small stage where a cabaret performer sings. 
It’s September, 1939. General Sigmund List's armored divisions, driving north from the Sudetenland, have taken Cracow, and now, in this club, drinking, socializing, conducting business, is a strange clientele: SS officers and Polish cops, gangsters and girls and entrepreneurs, thrown together by the circumstance of war. 
Oskar Schindler, drinking alone, slowly scans the room, the faces, stripping away all that’s unimportant to him, settling only on details that are: the rank of this man, the higher rank of that one, money being slipped into a hand. 
WAITER SETS DOWN DRINKS 
in front of the SS officer who took the money. A lieutenant, he’s at a table with his girlfriend and a lower-ranking officer. 
WAITER From the gentleman. 
The waiter is gesturing to a table across the room where Schindler, seemingly unaware of the SS men, drinks with the best-looking woman in the place. 
LIEUTENANT Do I know him? 
His sergeant doesn’t. His girlfriend doesn't. 
LIEUTENANT Find out who he is. 
The sergeant makes his way over to Schindler's table. 
There's a handshake and introductions before -- and the lieutenant, watching, can't believe it -- his guy accepts the chair Schindler's dragging over. 
The lieutenant waits, but his man doesn't come back; he's forgotten already he went there for a reason. Finally, and it irritates the SS man, he has to get up and go over there. 
LIEUTENANT Stay here. 
His girlfriend watches him cross toward Schindler's table. 
Before he even arrives, Schindler is up and berating him for leaving his date way over there across the room, waving at the girl to come join them, motioning to waiter to slide some tables together. 
WAITERS ARRIVE WITH PLATES OF CAVIAR 
and another round of drinks. The lieutenant makes a halfhearted move for his wallet. 
LIEUTENANT Let me get this one. 
SCHINDLER No, put it away, put it away. 
Schindler's already got his money out. Even as he's paying, his eyes are working the room, settling on a table where a girl is declining the advances of two more high-ranking SS men. 
A TABLECLOTH BILLOWS 
as a waiter lays it down on another table that's been added to the others. Schindler seats the SS officers on either side of his own "date" -- 
STERN Get the contracts and I'm sure you'll do very well. In fact the worse things get the better you'll do. It was a "pleasure." 
SCHINDLER The contracts? That's the easy part. Finding the money to buy the company, that's hard. 
He laughs loudly, uproariously. But then, just as abruptly as the laugh erupted, he's dead serious, all kidding aside -- 
SCHINDLER You know anybody? 
Stern stares at him curiously, sitting there taking another sip of his cognac, placid as a large dog. 
SCHINDLER Jews, yeah. Investors. 
STERN (pause) Jews can no longer own businesses, sir, that's why this one's for sale. 
SCHINDLER Well, they wouldn't own it, I'd own it. I'd pay them back in product. They can trade it on the black market, do whatever they want, everybody's happy. 
He shrugs; it sounds more than fair to him. But not to Stern. 
STERN Pots and pans. 
SCHINDLER (nodding) Something they can hold in their hands. 
Stern studies him. This man is nothing more than a salesman with a salesman's pitch; just dressed better than most. 
STERN I don't know anybody who'd be interested in that. 
SCHINDLER (a slow knowing nod) They should be. 
Silence. 
EXT. CRACOW - NIGHT 
A mason trowels mortar onto a brick. As he taps it into a place and scrapes off the excess cement, the image DRAINS OF COLOR. 
Under lights, a crew of brick-layers is erecting a ten-foot wall where a street once ran unimpeded. 
EXT. STREET - CRACOW - DAY 
A young man emerges from an alley pocketing his Jewish armband. He crosses a street past German soldiers and trucks and climbs the steps of St. Mary's cathedral. 
INT. ST. MARY'S CATHEDRAL - DAY 
A dark and cavernous place. A priest performing Mass to scattered parishioners. Lots of empty pews. 
The young Polish Jew from the street, Poldek Pfefferberg, kneels, crosses himself, and slides in next to another young man, Goldberg, going over notes scribbled on a little pad inside a missal. Pfefferberg shows him a container of shoe polish he takes from his pocket. Whispered, bored -- 
GOLDBERG What's that? 
PFEFFERBERG You don't recognize it? Maybe that's because it's not what I asked for. 
GOLDBERG You asked for shoe polish. 
PFEFFERBERG My buyers sold it to a guy who sold it to the Army. But by the time it got there -- because of the cold -- it broke, the whole truckload. 
GOLDBERG (pause) So I'm responsible for the weather? 
PFEFFERBERG I asked for metal, you gave me glass. 
GOLDBERG This is not my problem. 
PFEFFERBERG Look it up. 
Goldberg doesn't bother; he pockets his little notepad and intones a response to the priest's prayer, all but ignoring Pfefferberg. 
PFEFFERBERG This is not your problem? Everybody wants to know who I got it from, and I'm going to tell them. 
Goldberg glances to Pfefferberg for the first time, and, greatly put upon, takes out his little notepad again and makes a notation in it. 
GOLDBERG Metal. 
He flips the pad closed, pockets it, crosses himself as he gets up, and leaves. 
INT. HOTEL - DAY 
Pfefferberg at the front desk of a sleepy hotel with another black market middleman, the desk clerk. Both are wearing their armbands. Pfefferberg underlines figures on a little notepad of his own -- 
PFEFFERBERG Let's say this is what you give me. These are fees I have to pay some guys. This is my commission. This is what I bring you back in Occupation currency. 
The clerk, satisfied with the figures, is about to hand over to Pfefferberg some outlawed Polish notes from an envelope when Schindler comes in from the street. The clerk puts the money away, gets Schindler his room key, waits for him to leave so he can finish his business with Pfefferberg... but Schindler doesn't leave; he just keeps looking over at Pfefferberg's shirt, at the cuffs, the collar. 
PFEFFERBERG That's a nice shirt. 
Pfefferberg nods, Yeah, thanks, and waits for Schindler to leave; but he doesn't. Nor does he appear to hear the short burst of muffled gunfire that erupts from somewhere up the street. 
SCHINDLER You don't know where I could find a shirt like that. 
Pfefferberg knows he should say 'no,' let that be the end of it. It's not wise doing business with a German who could have you arrested for no reason whatsoever. But there's something guileless about it. 
PFEFFERBERG Like this? 
SCHINDLER (nodding) There's nothing in the stores. 
The clerk tries to discourage Pfefferberg from pursuing this transaction with just a look. Pfefferberg ignores it. 
Max admits it with a shrug. 
MAX REDLICHT I've done some things... but I won't do this. 
Silence. The Einsatz NCO glances away to the others, amused. 
EINSATZ NCO What does this mean? Of all of you, there's only one who has the guts to say no? One? And he doesn't even believe? (no one, of course answer him) I come in here, I ask you to do something no one should ever ask. And you do it? (pause) What won't you do? 
Nobody answers. He turns to Max. 
EINSATZ NCO You, sir, I respect. 
He pulls out a revolver and shoots the old gangster in the head. He's dead before he hits the floor. 
EINSATZ NCO The rest of you... ...are beneath his contempt. 
He turns and walks away. The other Einsatz Boys pull rifles and revolvers from their coats and open fire. 
EXT. CRACOW - DAY 
In BLACK AND WHITE and absolute silence, a suitcase thrown 
from a second story window arcs slowly through the air. As it hits the pavement, spilling open -- SOUND ON -- and, returning to COLOR -- 
Thousands of families pushing barrows through the streets of Kazimierz, dragging mattresses over the bridge at Podgorze, carrying kettles and fur coats and children on a mass forced exodus into the ghetto. 
Crowds of Poles line the sidewalks like spectators on a parade route. Some wave. Some take it more soberly, as if sensing they may be next. 
POLISH GIRL Goodbye, Jews. 
EXT. GHETTO GATE - DAY 
The little folding tables have been dragged out and set up again, and at them sit the clerks. 
Goldberg, of all people, has somehow managed to elevate himself to a station of some authority. Armed with something more frightening than a gun -- a clipboard -- he abets the Gestapo in their task of deciding who passes through the ghetto gate and who detours to the train station. 
PFEFFERBERG What's this? 
Pfefferberg, with his wife Mila, at the head of a line that seems to stretch back forever, flicks at Goldberg's OD armband with disgust. 
GOLDBERG Ghetto Police. I'm a policeman now, can you believe it? 
PFEFFERBERG Yeah, I can. 
They consider each other for a long moment before Pfefferberg leads his wife past Goldberg and into the ghetto. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING, GHETTO - NIGHT 
Dismayed by each others' close proximity, Orthodox and liberal Jews wait to use the floor's single bathroom. 
INT. GHETTO APARTMENT - NIGHT 
From the next apartment comes the liturgical solo of a cantor. In this apartment, looking like they can't bear much more of it, sit some non-Orthodox businessmen, Stern and Schindler. 
SCHINDLER For each thousand you invest, you take from the loading dock five hundred kilos of product a month -- to begin in July and to continue for one year -- after which time, we're even. (he shrugs) That's it. 
He lets them think about it, pours a shot of cognac from his flask, offers it to Stern, who brought this group together and now sits at Schindler's side. The accountant declines. 
INVESTOR 1 Not good enough. 
SCHINDLER Not good enough? Look where you're living. Look where you've been put. "Not good enough." (he almost laughs at the squalor) A couple of months ago, you'd be right. Not anymore. 
INVESTOR 1 Money's still money. 
SCHINDLER No, it isn't, that's why we're here. 
Schindler lights a cigarette and waits for their answer. It doesn't come. Just a silence. Which irritates him. 
SCHINDLER Did I call this meeting? You told Mr. Stern you wanted to speak to me. I'm here. Now you want to negotiate? The offer's withdrawn. 
He caps his flask, pockets it, reaches for his top coat. 
INVESTOR 2 How do we know you'll do what you say? 
SCHINDLER Because I said I would. What do you want, a contract? To be filed where? (he slips into his coat) I said what I'll do, that's our contract. 
The investors study him. This is not a manageable German. 
Whether he's honest or not is impossible to say. Their glances to Stern don't help them; he doesn't know either. 
The silence in the room is filled by the muffled singing next door. One of the men eventually nods, He's in. Then another. And another. 
INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY 
A red power button is pushed, starting the motor of a huge metal press. The machine whirs, louder, louder. 
INT. UPSTAIRS OFFICE - SAME TIME - DAY 
Schindler, at a wall of a windows, is peering down at the lone technician making adjustments to the machine. 
STERN The standard SS rate for Jewish skilled labor is seven Marks a day, five for unskilled and women. This is what you pay the Economic Office, the laborers themselves receive nothing. Poles you pay wages. Generally, they get a little more. Are you listening? 
Schindler turns from the wall of glass to face his new accountant. 
A man glances up, sees them coming. He's one of Schindler's investors, the one who questioned the German's word. The man's teenage sons rush to their father's defense, but Pfefferberg grabs him and locks an arm tightly around his neck. 
Silence. Then, calmly -- 
SCHINDLER If you or anyone acting as an agent for you comes to my factory again, I'll have you arrested. 
INVESTOR It was a mistake. 
SCHINDLER It was a mistake? What was a mistake? How do you know what I'm talking about? 
INVESTOR All right, it wasn't a mistake, but it was one time. 
SCHINDLER We had a deal, you broke it. One phone call and your whole family is dead. 
He turns and walks away. Pfefferberg lets the guy go and follows. The investor's sons help their father up off the floor. Gasping, he yells. 
INVESTOR I gave you money. 
-- but Schindler and Pfefferberg are already gone, coming through the front office and out the front door -- 
EXT. STOREFRONT - CONTINUOUS - DAY 
-- to the street. Pfefferberg looks a little shaken from the experience. Schindler straightens his friend's clothes. 
SCHINDLER How you feeling, all right? 
PFEFFERBERG Yeah. 
SCHINDLER What's the matter, everything all right at home? (Pfefferberg nods) Mila's okay? 
PFEFFERBERG She's good. 
Well, then, Schindler can't imagine what could be wrong. He pats Pfefferberg on the shoulder and leads him away. 
SCHINDLER Good. 
INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY 
The long tables accommodate most of workers. The rest eat their lunch on the floor. Soup and bread. 
INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - SAME TIME - DAY 
An elegant place setting for one. Meat, vegetables, glass of wine, all untouched. Schindler leafing through pages of a report Stern has prepared for him. 
SCHINDLER I could try to read this or I could eat my lunch while it's till hot. We're doing well? 
STERN Yes. 
SCHINDLER Better this month than last? 
STERN Yes. 
SCHINDLER Any reason to think next month will be worse? 
STERN The war could end. 
No chance of that. Satisfied, Schindler returns the report to his accountant and starts to eat. Stern knows he is excused, but looks like he wants to say something more; he just doesn't know how to say it. 
SCHINDLER (impatient) What? 
STERN (pause) There's a machinist outside who'd like to thank you personally for giving him a job. 
Schindler gives his accountant a long-suffering look. 
STERN He asks every day. It'll just take a minute. He's very grateful. 
Schindler's silence says, Is this really necessary? Stern pretends it's a tacit okay, goes to the door and pokes his head out. 
STERN Mr. Lowenstein? 
An old man with one arm appears in the doorway and Schindler glances to the ceiling, to heaven. As the man slowly makes his way into the room, Schindler sees the bruises on his face. And when he speaks, only half his mouth moves; the other half is paralyzed. 
LOWENSTEIN I want to thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity to work. 
SCHINDLER You're welcome, I'm sure you're doing a great job. 
Schindler shakes the man's hand perfunctorily and tells Stern with a look, okay, that's enough, get him out of here. 
LOWENSTEIN The SS beat me up. They would have killed me, but I'm essential to the war effort, thanks to you. 
SCHINDLER That's great. 
LOWENSTEIN I work hard for you. I'll continue to work hard for you. 
SCHINDLER That's great, thanks. 
LOWENSTEIN God bless you, sir. 
SCHINDLER Yeah, okay. 
LOWENSTEIN You're a good man. 
Schindler is dying, and telling Stern with his eyes, Get this guy out of here. Stern takes the man's arm. 
Nobody is kidding. 
KUHNPAST (pause) Thanks for the drink. 
He sets it down, gets up. Hohne gets up. They return the documents to Stern and turn to leave. They aren't quite out the door when Schindler wonders out loud to Stern: 
SCHINDLER You try to be fair to people, they walk out the door; I've never understood that. What's next? 
STERN Christmas presents. 
SCHINDLER Ah, yes. 
The businessmen slow, but don't look back into the room. 
EXT. SCHERNER'S RESIDENCE - CRACOW - MORNING 
Pfefferberg wipes a smudge from the hood of an otherwise pristine BMW Cabriolet. As Scherner and his wife emerge from their house in robes, Scherner whispers to himself -- 
SCHERNER Oskar... 
EXT. KUHNPAST'S RADIATOR FACTORY - DAY 
Workers high on the side of the building toss down the letters of the radiator sign as others hoist up a big "D." Under armed guard, others unload a metal press machine from a truck. 
INT. RADIATOR FACTORY / DEF ANNEX - DAY 
Technicians make adjustments to presses already in place. 
Others test the new firing ovens. Kuhnpast is being forcibly removed from the premises. 
INT. GHETTO EMPLOYMENT OFFICE - DAY 
Crowded beyond belief, the place is like a post office gone mad. Stern, moving along one of the impossibly crowded lines, pauses to speak with an elderly couple. 
EXT. PEACE SQUARE - DAY 
A hand slaps a blue sticker on a work card. Slap, another. 
And another. And another. 
INT. D.E.F. FRONT OFFICE - DAY 
Christmas decorations. Klonowska at her desk, her eyes closed tight. 
SCHINDLER All right. 
She opens her eyes and smiles. Schindler is holding a poodle in his arms. She comes around to kiss him. He sets the dog on the desk. Stern, across the room, watches blank-faced. 
GESTAPO (O.S.) Oskar Schindler? 
Schindler, Stern and Klonowska turn to the voice. Two Gestapo men have entered unannounced. 
GESTAPO We have a warrant to take your company's business records with us. And another to take you. 
Schindler stares at them in disbelief. Stern quietly slips one of the ledgers on his desk into a drawer. 
SCHINDLER Am I permitted to have my secretary cancel my appointments for the day? 
He doesn't wait for their approval. He scribbles down some names -- Toffel, Czurda, Reeder, Scherner. Underlining Scherner, he glances to Klonowska. She understands. 
INT. OFFICE, SS HEADQUARTERS, CRACOW - DAY 
A humorless middle-level bureaucrat sits behind a desk and D.E.F.'s ledgers and cashbooks. 
GESTAPO CLERK You live very well. 
The man slowly shakes his head 'no' to Schindler's offer of a cigarette. Schindler tamps it against the crystal of his gold watch. 
GESTAPO CLERK This standard of living comes entirely from legitimate sources, I take it? 
Schindler lights the cigarette and drags on it, all but ignoring the man. 
GESTAPO CLERK As an SS supplier, you have a moral obligation to desist from blackmarket dealings. You're in business to support the war effort, not to fatten -- 
SCHINDLER (interrupting) You know? When my friends ask, I'd love to be able to tell them you treated me with the utmost courtesy and respect. 
The quiet matter-of-fact tone, more than the comment itself, throws the bureaucrat off his rhythm. His eyes narrow slightly. There's a long silence. 
INT. HALLWAY/ROOM - SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY 
The two who arrested him lead Schindler down a long hallway. 
They reach a door, have him step inside and close the door after him. 
INT. SS "CELL" - EVENING 
Schindler knocks on the inside of the door. A Waffen SS man opens it. The "prisoner" peels several bills from a thick wad. 
SCHINDLER Chances of getting a bottle of vodka pretty good? 
He hands the young guard five times the going price. 
WAFFEN GUARD Yes, sir. 
The sergeant takes a good hard look at the clothes, at the pin, at the man wearing them. 
SERGEANT (to the clerk) Is he on the list? 
CLERK Yes, sir. 
SERGEANT (to Schindler) The list is correct, sir. There's nothing I can do. 
SCHINDLER May as well get your name while you're here. 
SERGEANT My name? My name is Kunder. Sergeant Kunder. What's yours? 
SCHINDLER Schindler. 
The sergeant takes out a pad. Now all three of them have lists. He jots down Schindler's name. Schindler jots down his and flips the pad closed. 
SCHINDLER Sergeant, Mr. Tauber, thank you very much. I think I can guarantee you you'll both be in Southern Russia before the end of the month. Good evening. 
He walks away, back toward his car. The clerk and sergeant smile. But slowly, slowly, the smiles sour at the possibility that this man calmly walking away from them could somehow arrange such a fate... 
ALL THREE OF THEM -- 
-- Schindler, the clerk and the sergeant -- stride along the side of the cars. Two of them are calling out loudly -- 
CLERK & SERGEANT Stern! Itzhak Stern! 
Soon it seems as if everybody except Schindler is yelling out the name. As they reach the last few cars, the accountant's face appears through the slats. 
SCHINDLER There he is. 
SERGEANT Open it. 
Guards yank at a lever, slide the gate open. Stern climbs down. The clerk draws a line through his name on the list and hands the clipboard to Schindler. 
CLERK Initial it, please. (Schindler initials the change) And this... 
As Schindler signs three or four forms, the guards slide the carriage gate closed. Those left inside seem grateful for the extra space. 
CLERK It makes no difference to us, you understand -- this one, that one. It's the inconvenience to the list. It's the paperwork. 
Schindler returns the clipboard. The sergeant motions to another who motions to the engineer. As the train pulls out, Stern tries to keep up with Schindler who's striding away. 
STERN I somehow left my work card at home. I tried to tell them it was a mistake, but they -- 
Schindler silences him with a look. He's livid. Stern glances down at the ground. 
STERN I'm sorry. It was stupid. (contrite) Thank you. 
Schindler turns away and heads for the car. Stern hurries after him. They pass an area where all the luggage, carefully tagged, has been left -- the image becoming BLACK and WHITE. 
EXT./INT. MECHANICS GARAGE - NIGHT 
Mechanics' hood-lamps throw down pools of light through which me wheel handcarts piled high with suitcases, briefcases, steamer trunks -- BLACK and WHITE. 
Moving along with one of the handcarts into a huge garage past racks of clothes, each item tagged, past musical instruments, furniture, paintings, against one wall -- children's toys, sorted by size. 
The cart stops. A valise is handed to someone who dumps and sorts the contents on a greasy table. The jewelry is taken to another area, to a pit, one of two deep lubrication bays filled with watches, bracelets, necklaces, candelabra, Passover platters, gold in one, silver the other, and tossed in. 
At workbenches, four Jewish jewelers under SS guard sift and sort and weigh and grade diamonds, pearls, pendants, brooches children's rings -- faltering only once, when a uniformed figure upends a box, spilling out gold teeth smeared with blood -- the image saturating with COLOR. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 
Fractured gravestones like broken teeth jut from the earth of a neglected Jewish cemetery outside of town. Down the road that runs alongside it comes a German staff car. 
INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY 
In the backseat, Untersturmfuhrer Amon Goeth pulls on a flask of schnapps. His age and build are about that of Schindler's; his face open and pleasant. 
GOETH Make a nice driveway. 
The other SS officers in the car -- Knude, Haase and Hujar -- aren't sure what he means. He's peering out the window at the tombstones. 
EXT. GHETTO - DAY 
The staff car passes through the portals of the ghetto and down the trolley lines of Lwowska Street. 
INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY 
As the car slowly cruises through the ghetto, Knude, like a tour guide, briefs the new man, Goeth -- 
KNUDE This street divides the ghetto just about in half. On the right -- Ghetto A: civil employees, industry workers, so on. On the left, Ghetto B: surplus labor, the elderly mostly. Which is where you'll probably want to start. 
The look Goeth gives Knude tells him to refrain, if he would, from offering tactical opinions. 
KNUDE Of course that's entirely up to you. 
EXT. PLASZOW FORCED LABOR SITE - DAY 
Outside of town, a previously abandoned limestone quarry lies nestled between two hills. The stone and brick buildings look like they've been here forever; the wooden structures, those that are up, are built of freshly-cut lumber. 
There's a great deal of activity. New construction and renovation -- foundations being poured, rail tracks being laid, fences and watchtowers going up, heavy segments of huts -- wall panels, eaves sections -- being dragged uphill by teams of bescarved women like some ancient Egyptian industry. 
Goeth surveys the site from a knoll, clearly pleased with it. 
EXT. GHETTO - DAY 
The wheels of the last truck clear the portals at Lwowska Street and the Sonderkommandos jump down. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDINGS - DAWN 
Families are routed from their apartments. An appeal to be allowed to pack is answered with a rifle butt; an unannounced move to a desk drawer is countered with a shot. 
EXT. STREETS, GHETTO - DAWN 
Spilling out of the buildings, they're herded into lines without regard to family consideration; some other unfathomable system is at work here. The wailing protests of a woman to join her husband's line are abruptly cut off by a short burst of gunfire. 
EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN 
From here, the action down below seems staged, unreal; the rifle bursts no louder than caps. Dismounting, Schindler moves closer to the edge of the hill, curious. 
His attention is drawn to a small distant figure, all in red, at the rear of one of the many columns. 
EXT. STREET - DAWN 
Small red shoes against a forest of gleaming black boots. A Waffen SS man occasionally corrects the little girl's drift, fraternally it seems, nudging her gently back in line with the barrel of his rifle. A volley of shots echoes from up the street. 
EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN 
Schindler watches as the girl slowly wanders away unnoticed by the SS. Against the grays of the buildings and street she's like a moving red target. 
EXT. STREET - DAWN 
A truck thundering down the street obscures her for a moment. 
Then she's moving past a pile of bodies, old people executed in the street. 
EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN 
Schindler watches: she's so conspicuous, yet she keeps moving -- past crowds, past dogs, past trucks -- as though she were invisible. 
EXT. STREET - DAWN 
Patients in white gowns, and doctors and nurses in white, are herded out the doors of a convalescent hospital. The small figure in red moves past them. Shots explode behind her. 
EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN 
Short bursts of light flash throughout the ghetto like stars. 
Schindler, fixated on the figure in red, loses sight of her as she turns a corner. 
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAWN 
She climbs the stairs. The building is empty. She steps inside an apartment and moves through it. It's been ransacked. As she crawls under the bed, the scene DRAINS of COLOR. 
The gunfire outside sounds like firecrackers. 
EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT 
NIGHT Silence. Schindler and Ingrid are gone. 
Below, the ghetto lies like a void within the city, its perimeter and interior clearly distinguishable by darkness. 
Outside it, the lights of the rest of Cracow glimmer. 
INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - NIGHT 
Tables and tools and enamelware scrap. The metal presses and lathes, still. The firing ovens, cold. The gauges at zero. 
Against the wall of windows overlooking the empty factory floor stands a figure, Schindler, in silhouette against the glass, black against white, not moving, just staring down. 
EXT. FOREST - PLASZOW - MORNING 
Bloody wheelbarrows, stark against the tree line of a forest above the completed forced labor camp, PLASZOW. 
EXT. PLASZOW FORCED LABOR CAMP - MORNING 
Names on lists. Names called out. Tight on faces. 
Goldberg at one of several folding tables. The gangsterturned -- ghetto-cop is now the Lord of Lists inside Plaszow. 
He and other listmakers call out names, accounting for those thousands who survived the liquidation of the ghetto and now stand before them in long straight rows. 
INT. GOETH'S BEDROOM, PLASZOW - MORNING 
Amon Goeth stirs, wakes, glances at the woman asleep beside him. Hungover, he drags himself slowly out of bed. 
EXT. GOETH'S BALCONY - MOMENTS LATER - MORNING 
Goeth steps out onto the balcony in his undershirt and shorts and peers out across the labor camp, his labor camp, his kingdom. Satisfied with it, even amazed, he's reminiscent of Schindler looking down on his kingdom, his factory, as he loves to do, from his wall of glass. 
Life is great. Goeth reaches for a rifle. 
EXT. PLASZOW SAME TIME - MORNING 
Workers loading quarry rock onto trolleys under Ukrainian guard and a low morning sun. Every so often, one glances with anticipation to the balcony of Goeth's "villa" -- which is in fact nothing more than a two-story stone house perched on a slight rise in the dry landscape. 
EXT. GOETH'S BALCONY - CONTINUED - MORNING 
His voice echoes into silence. An acquiescent shrug from Goeth finally. And a nod; Schindler's right. 
SCHINDLER Every day that goes by, I'm losing money. Every worker that is shot, costs me money -- I have to get somebody else, I have to train them -- 
GOETH We're going to be making so much money, none of this is going to matter -- 
SCHINDLER (cutting him off) It's bad business. 
GOETH (shrugs) Some of the boys went crazy, what're you going to do? You're right, it's bad business, but it's over with, it's done. (pause) Occasionally, sure, okay, you got to make an example. But that's good business. 
Schindler pours himself another shot from the bottle, nurses it. He's in a foul mood. They study each other, trying to determine perhaps who's more powerful. Eventually -- 
GOETH Scherner told me something else about you. 
SCHINDLER Yeah, what's that? 
GOETH That you know the meaning of the word gratitude. That it's not some vague thing with you like with some guys. 
SCHINDLER True. 
Goeth tries to put the situation in perspective: 
GOETH You want to stay where you are. You got things going on the side, things are good, you don't want anybody telling you what to do -- I can understand all that. (pause) What you want is your own sub-camp. 
Schindler admits it by not disagreeing. Goeth thinks about it, nods to himself again, then frowns. 
GOETH Do you have any idea what's involved? The paperwork alone? Forget you got to build it all, getting the fucking permits, that's enough to drive you crazy. Then the engineers show up. They stand around and they argue about drainage -- I'm telling you, you'll want to shoot somebody, I've been through it, I know. 
SCHINDLER Well, you've been through it. You know. You could make things easier for me. 
Goeth mulls it over, his shrug saying "maybe, maybe not." A silence before -- 
SCHINDLER I'd be grateful. 
There's the word Goeth was waiting to hear. 
EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP SITE - DAY 
An SS surveyor, with even paces, measures a distance of the bare field adjacent to the factory. He sticks a little flag into the ground. 
EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP SITE - DAY 
A watchtower, half-erected, the little flag still in the ground. Laborers hammer at it while others roll out barbed wire fencing. A surveyor supervises the placement of a post and carefully measures its heights; it has to be nine feet, exactly. 
At a folding table in the middle of the field, Schindler signs checks made out to the Construction Office, Plaszow -- requisitioning more lumber, cement and hardware. 
EXT. CONSTRUCTION OFFICE, PLASZOW - DAY 
Plaszow prisoners load the requisitioned building supplies -- the lumber, cement and hardware -- onto trucks. 
EXT/INT. WAREHOUSE, CRACOW - DAY 
The trucks parked not at Schindler's sub-camp, but at the loading dock of Goeth's private warehouse in Cracow. Inside the building can be glimpsed all kinds of Plaszow goods: clothes, food, construction equipment, furniture. 
Checkbook laid out on the hood of his Mercedes, Schindler pays for the requested materials a second time -- this time with a check made out to Amon Goeth personally -- and hands it over to his bagman, Hujar. 
EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP FIELD - DAY 
Some SS architects groan over a set of blueprints. Schindler and an SS officer walk by. 
SS OFFICER You have the Poles beat the Czechs, you have the Czechs beat the Poles, that way everybody stays in line. 
SCHINDLER All I have is Jews. 
He shrugs, Too bad, what're you going to do? The SS guy has to think. Yeah, that's a problem. Two huge leashed dogs yank another SS man across their path. 
EXT. D.E.F. - DAY 
As five hundred Plaszow prisoners are marched back onto the grounds of D.E.F., any hope they may have had of a more lenient environment is quickly dashed. The place -- completed -- looks like a fortress: barbed-wire, towers, SS guards and dogs. 
INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY 
Where once they glimpsed the not too threatening figure of Oskar Schindler strolling through the factory, the workers who dare glance up now find armed guards moving past. And further up, behind the wall of windows, Schindler moving around, entertaining SS officer. 
INT. GOETH'S VILLA - NIGHT 
The Rosner brothers in evening clothes, Leo on accordion, Henry on violin, playing a Strauss melody, trying to keep it muted, inoffensive. Few of the guests pay attention, which is fine with them. An SS officer chats with Schindler. 
LEO JOHN -- she's seventy years old, she's been there forever -- they bomb her house. Everything's gone. The furniture, everything. 
SCHINDLER (well aware the man is lying) Thank God she wasn't there. 
Schindler, with yet another girl on his arm, endures the officer's lies while sweeping the room with his eyes. 
LEO JOHN I was thinking maybe you could help her out. Some plates and mugs, some stew pots, I don't know. Say half a gross of everything? 
Schindler looks at him for the first time, knowingly. 
SCHINDLER She run an orphanage, your aunt? 
LEO JOHN She's old. What she can't use maybe she can sell. 
Schindler's girl excuses herself to get a drink. 
Not daring to look up, all the worker sees of Goeth is the starched cuff of his shirt. 
LEVARTOV Hinges, sir. 
The rabbi-turned-metalworker gestures with his head to a pile of hinges on the floor. Goeth nods. And in a tone more like a friend than anything else -- 
GOETH I got some workers coming in tomorrow... Where the hell they from again? 
GOLDBERG Yugoslavia. 
GOETH Yugoslavia. I got to make room. 
He shrugs apologetically and pulls out a pocket watch. 
GOETH Make me a hinge. 
As Goeth times him, Rabbi Levartov works at making a hinge as though his life depended on it -- which it does -- cutting the pieces, wrenching them together, smoothing the edges, all the while keeping count on his head of the seconds ticking away. 
He finishes and lets it fall onto the others on the floor. 
Forty seconds. 
GOETH Another. 
Again the rabbi works feverishly -- cutting, crimping, sanding, hearing the seconds ticking in his head -- and finishing in thirty-five. Goeth nods, impressed. 
GOETH That's very good. What I don't understand, though, is -- you've been working since what, about six this morning? Yet such a small pile of hinges? 
He understands perfectly. So does Levartov; he has just crafted his own death in exactly 75 seconds. Goeth stands him against the workshop wall and adjusts his shoulders. He pulls out his pistol, puts it to the rabbi's head and pulls the trigger... click. 
GOETH (mumble) Christ -- 
Annoyed, Goeth extracts the bullet-magazine, slaps it back in and puts the barrel back to the man's head. He pulls the trigger again... and again there's a click. 
GOETH God damn it -- 
He slams the weapon across Levartov's face and the rabbi slumps dazed to the floor. Looking up into Goeth's face, he knows it's not over. As Goeth walks away -- 
CUT BACK TO: 
EXT. BARRACKS - CONTINUED - NIGHT 
Tight on Schindler, a pensive nod, then a shrug. 
SCHINDLER The guy can turn out a hinge in less than a minute? Why the long story? 
INT. D.E.F. - DAY 
Rabbi Levartov, brought over to D.E.F., works at a table with several others. As Schindler strolls by, the rabbi dares to speak -- 
LEVARTOV Thank you, sir. 
Schindler has to think a moment before he can figure out who the grateful man is. 
SCHINDLER Oh, yeah. You're welcome. 
EXT. PLASZOW - DAY 
A dead chicken dangling from Hujar's hand, evidence of some kind. Goeth slowly pacing before a work detail of twenty or so men standing still, silent, in a row. 
GOETH Nobody knows who stole the chicken. A man walks around with a chicken, nobody notices this. 
No one confesses. Goeth nods, All right, takes a rifle from a guard and shoots one of the workers at random. With this added incentive, he waits for someone to tell him who stole the chicken. No one does. 
GOETH Still nobody knows. 
He shrugs, Okay, points the rifle at another worker -- and a boy of fourteen, shuddering and weeping, steps out of line. 
GOETH There we go. 
Goeth goes over to the boy, and, like a distant relative to a small child, tries to get him to look at his face. 
GOETH It was you? You committed this crime? 
BOY No, sir. 
GOETH You know who, though. 
The boy nods, weeps, screams -- 
BOY Him! 
He's pointing at the dead man. And Goeth astonishes the entire assembly of workers and guards by believing the boy. 
He returns the rifle to the guard and walks away. Hujar stares after him, then knowingly at the boy. 
EXT. PLASZOW - DAY 
A truck being loaded with supplies. Schindler signs for it and, appearing as rushed as he always does, returns the clipboard to Stern. 
SCHINDLER Yeah, sure, bring him over. 
INT. D.E.F. - DAY 
SCHINDLER Did I threaten anybody here? I stated a simple fact. 
The threat still stands, despite Schindler's assurance otherwise, and they all know it. So does Scherner's threat back to him, and they all know that, too. But Schindler just grins, and, glancing away -- 
SCHINDLER Come on, let's watch the girls. 
INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY 
In addition to the mid-day soup and break, there are bowls of fruit on the long work tables. At one of them, several workers are debating which of them will go upstairs to thank Schindler. 
INT. UPSTAIRS OFFICES, D.E.F. - SAME TIME - DAY 
In honor of Schindler's birthday, Goeth has brought over Stern and the Rosners -- the musicians, at the moment, accompanying the best baritone in the Ukrainian garrison. 
Surrounded by his friends and lovers, Schindler cuts a cake. 
He receives congratulations from the many SS men present and the embraces, in turn, of Ingrid and Klonowska and Goeth. 
From Stern he gets a handshake. 
A Jewish girl from the shop floor is admitted and timidly approaches the drunken group around Schindler. The SS men consider her as a curiosity; Schindler, as he would any beautiful girl. The music breaks and out of the silence comes a small nervous voice: 
FACTORY GIRL ...On behalf of the workers... sir... I wish you a happy birthday... 
She hesitates. She's surrounded by SS uniforms and swastikas and holstered guns. Schindler smiles; this is a beautiful girl. 
SCHINDLER Thank you. 
He kisses her on the mouth. The smiles on the faces around them strain. Stern glances to heaven. Amon cocks his head like a confused dog. The kiss is broken, finally, and Schindler smiles again with impunity. 
SCHINDLER Thank them for me. 
The girl backs away nodding anxiously; all she wants now is out before someone -- her, Schindler, both of them -- gets shot. Henry Rosner nudges Leo and they begin another song. 
And the party tries to resume. 
EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAWN 
Were they not asleep in their barracks, the prisoners would no doubt shudder at the sight: the clerks are setting up their folding tables. 
Other figures move around the parade ground in the murky dawn light: these raising a banner, those wheeling filing cabinets across the Appellplatz, this one wiring a phonograph, that one saturating a pad with ink from a bottle. 
Goldberg, Lord of Lists, moves from table to table handing out carbons of lists and sharing morning pleasantries with the clerks. 
Some men in white appear like ghosts. A doctor's kid is opened, a stethoscope removed. Another cleans the lenses of his glasses. Someone sharpens a pencil. 
EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAWN 
A trainman waving a lantern guides an engineer who's slowly backing an empty cattle car along the tracks. It couples to another empty slatted car with a harsh clank. 
EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY 
The needle of the phonograph is set down on a pocked 78. The first scratchy note of a Strauss waltz blare from the camp speakers. 
EXT. BALCONY - GOETH'S VILLA - DAY 
In his undershirt and shorts Goeth calmly smokes his first cigarette of the morning as he listens to the music wafting up from down below. 
Down there on the Appellplatz, the entire population of the camp has been concentrated, some fifteen thousand prisoners. 
EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY 
Though the music and banners struggle to evoke a country fair, the presence of the doctors belie it. A sorting out process is going on here, the healthy from the unhealthy. 
A physician wipes at his brow with his handkerchief as several prisoners run back and forth, naked, before him. He makes his selections quickly: this one into this line, that one into that, and Goldberg moves them recording the names. 
Other groups of people run naked in front of other doctors and clerks. Notations are made and lines are formed. The sun beats down and the music lies. 
EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY 
Some still pulling their clothes back on, the first wave of the "unfit" is marched onto the platform. A guard slides open the gate of a cattle car and this first unlucky group climbs aboard. 
EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY 
Behind the camouflage of other women prisoners, Mila Pfefferberg rubs a beet against her cheeks in desperate hope of adding a little color to her skin. 
Amon Goeth, his shirtsleeves uncharacteristically rolled up, chats with one of the doctors as another group strips. 
Whether the topic is this Health Aktion or the unseasonable weather is unclear, but he nods approvingly. 
PFEFFERBERG (O.S.) Commandant, sir. 
Goeth glances up, finds Poldek among the group taking off their clothes. Pfefferberg appeals to him with a look that asks, Do I really have to go through this, and Goeth turns to a clerk. 
GOETH My mechanic. 
Pfefferberg is motioned away from the others; he's okay, he doesn't have to be put through this indignity. He calls out to the Commandant again -- 
PFEFFERBERG What about my wife? 
Goeth thinks about it a moment before he nods, Yeah, okay, sure. A clerk accompanies Pfefferberg and, making a notation on the way, finds Mila. 
EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY 
SCHINDLER I'm not saying you'll regret it, but you might. I want you to be aware of that. 
GESTAPO 1 We'll risk it. 
Schindler glances beyond them to a point outside his office, to Klonowska. She nods, she knows what to do, she'll make the phone calls, call in the favors. 
SCHINDLER All right, sure, it's a nice day, I'll go for a drive with you guys. 
He snuffs out his cigarette. 
INT. GESTAPO CAR - MOVING - DAY 
Settled comfortably in the backseat, Schindler glances idly out the window. As the car makes a turn, though, he looks back. Apparently he expected it to turn the other way. 
SCHINDLER Where are we going? 
The guys up front don't answer. Concern, for the first time, registers on Schindler's face. The car approaches a building block long with an ominous sameness to the windows. 
INT. MONTELUPICH PRISON - CRACOW - DAY 
Schindler is made to empty his pockets, his money, cigarettes, everything. Around him clerks speak in whispers, as if raised voices might set off head-splitting echoes along the narrow monotonous corridors. 
INT. MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY 
He's led down a flight of stairs into a claustrophobic tunnel. He's taken past darkened cells. Past shadowy figures crouched in corners and on the floor. 
INT. CELL, MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY 
A water bucket. A waste bucket. No windows. This is not a cell for dignitaries; this arrest is different. 
Schindler, incongruous with the dank surroundings in his double-breasted suit, slowly paces back and forth before his cellmate, a soldier who looks like he's been here forever, his greatcoat pulled up around his ears for warmth. 
SCHINDLER I violated the Race and Resettlement Act. Though I doubt they can point out the actual provision to me. (pause) I kissed a Jewish girl. 
Schindler forces a smile. His cellmate just stares. Now there's a crime; much more impressive, much more serious, than his own. 
INT. OFFICE - MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY 
In a stiff-backed chair sits a very unlikely defender of racial improprieties -- Amon Goeth. To an impassive SS colonel behind a desk, Goeth tries to highlight extenuating circumstances: 
GOETH He likes women. He likes good-looking women. He sees a good-looking woman, he doesn't think. This guy has so many women. They love him. He's married, he's got all these women. All right, she was Jewish, he shouldn't have done it. But you didn't see this girl. I saw this girl. This girl was very good-looking. 
Goeth tries to read the guy behind the desk, but his face is like a wall. 
GOETH They cast a spell on you, you know, the Jews. You work closely with them like I do, you see this. They have this power, it's like a virus. Some of my men are infected with this virus. They should be pitied, not punished. They should receive treatment, because this is as real as typhus. I see this all the time. 
Goeth shifts in his chair; he knows he's not getting anywhere with this guy. He switches tacts: 
GOETH It's a matter of money? We can discuss that. That'd be all right with me. 
In the silence that follows, Goeth realizes he has made a serious error in judgment. This man sitting soberly before him is one of that rare breed -- the unbribable official. 
SS COLONEL You're offering me a bribe? 
GOETH A "bribe?" No, no, please come on... a gratuity. 
Suddenly the man stands up and salutes, which thoroughly confuses Goeth since Goeth is his inferior in rank. But he isn't saluting Goeth, he's saluting the officer who has just stepped into the room behind him. 
SCHERNER Sit down. 
The colonel sits back down. Scherner pulls up a chair next to Goeth. 
SCHERNER Hello, Amon. 
GOETH Sir. 
Scherner smiles and allows Goeth to shake his hand, but it's clear, even to Goeth himself, that he has fallen from grace. 
INT. GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - NIGHT 
A tall, thin, gray Waffen SS officer has a request for the Rosner brothers. 
SS OFFICER I want to hear "Gloomy Sunday" again. 
He's drunk, morose; it seems unlikely he'll be on his feet much longer. Indeed, as Henry and Leo Rosner begin the son -- an excessively melancholy tale in which a young man commits suicide for love -- the field officer staggers over to a chair in the corner of the crowded room and slumps into it. 
SCHERNER We give you Jewish girls at five marks a day, Oskar, you should kiss us, not them. 
Goeth laughs too loud, drawing a weary glance from Scherner. 
Schindler smiles good-naturedly. He's out, a little worse for wear perhaps, a little more subdued than usual. Taking him away from the others, taking him into his confidence -- 
GOETH God forbid you ever get a real taste for Jewish skirt. There's no future in it. No future. They don't have a future. And that's not just good old- fashioned Jew-hating talk. It's policy now. 
THE THIN GRAY SS OFFICER is back in front of the musicians, swaying precariously, a drink in his hand -- 
SS OFFICER "Gloomy Sunday" again. 
Again they play the song. Again he staggers across the crowded room to his chair in the corner, paying no attention to the visiting Commandant from Treblinka or anybody else -- 
TREBLINKA GUY -- We can process at Treblinka, if everything is working? I don't know, maybe two thousand units a day. 
He shrugs like it's nothing, or with modesty, it's unclear. 
Except for the clothes of the working class clientele, the scene is reminiscent of the SS nightclub in Cracow: 
Schindler, the great entertainer, working his way around the tables making sure everybody's got enough to drink, making sure everybody's happy. A guy at a table with a girl gestures him over. 
BRINNLITZ GUY 2 Oskar - my friend Lena. 
SCHINDLER How do you do? (to them both) What can I get you, what're you drinking? 
BRINNLITZ GUY 2 Nothing's changed. Then again, something has changed, hasn't it? 
SCHINDLER Things worked out. I made some money over there, had some laughs, you know. It was good. 
BRINNLITZ GUY 2 Now you're back. 
SCHINDLER Now I'm back, and you know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to have a good time. So are you. 
He gestures to the bartender to refill his friend's and his date's drinks, pats the guy on the shoulder and wanders over to the next table. 
GIRL Who is he? 
The guy has to think; not because he doesn't know, but because his old friend Oskar is so many things it's hard to know which description to use. Finally -- 
BRINNLITZ GUY 2 He's a salesman. 
INT. HOTEL ROOM - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT 
A woman asleep in the bed. The girl from the bar. In his robe, at the window, Schindler calmly smokes as he stares out at the NIGHT 
EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAWN 
The town, off in the distance, nestled against the mountains. 
The sun, just coming up. Closer, here, ramshackle structures, a long abandoned factory of some kind. 
Schindler, in leather riding gear, climbs down off a Moto- Guzzi motorcycle. He slowly wanders around, peers in through broken windows, wanders around some more. 
Tight on his face, torn between conflicting choices, or realizing there's no choice, or only one choice, and hating it. 
SCHINDLER Goddamn it. 
EXT. BALCONY, GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - DAY 
Schindler and Goeth on the balcony of the villa, drinking. 
GOETH You want these people. 
SCHINDLER These people, my people, I want my people. 
Goeth considers his friend, greatly puzzled. Below them lies the camp, still operating, at least for now, until the shipments can be arranged. 
GOETH What are you, Moses? What is this? Where's the money in this? What's the scam? 
SCHINDLER It's good business. 
GOETH Oh, this is "good business" in your opinion. You've got to move them, the equipment, everything to Czechoslovakia -- it doesn't make any sense. 
SCHINDLER Look -- 
GOETH You're not telling me something. 
SCHINDLER It's good for me -- I know them, I'm familiar with them. It's good for you -- you'll be compensated. It's good for the Army. You know what I'm going to make? 
SCHINDLER Artillery shells. Tank shells. They need that. Everybody's happy. 
GOETH Yeah, sure. 
Goeth finds this whole line of reasoning impossible to believe. He's sure Schindler's got something else going on here he's not telling him. 
GOETH You're probably scamming me somehow. If I'm making a hundred, you got to be making three. 
Schindler admits it with a shrug. 
GOETH If you admit to making three, then it's four, actually. But how? 
SCHINDLER I just told you. 
GOETH You did, but you didn't. 
Goeth studies him, searching for the real answer in his face. 
He can't find it. 
GOETH Yeah, all right, don't tell me, I'll go along with it, it's just irritating to me I can't figure it out. 
SCHINDLER All you have to do is tell me what it's worth to you. What's a person worth to you. 
Goeth thinks about it in the silence. Then a slow nod to himself. He's going to make some money out of this even if he can't figure it out. He smiles. 
GOETH What's one worth to you? That's the question. 
HARD CUT TO: 
THE KEYS OF A TYPEWRITER slapping a name onto a list -- 184 184 LEVARTOV -- the letters the size of buildings, the sound as 
Schindler comes out of his office and, passing Stern's desk, mumbles -- 
SCHINDLER They're in Auschwitz. 
Before Stern can react, Schindler is out the door. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY 
As he strides across the factory courtyard toward his motorcycle, Schindler is intercepted by some Gestapo men who have just emerged from their car. 
GESTAPO Your friend Amon Goeth has been arrested. 
SCHINDLER (pause) I'm sorry to hear that. 
GESTAPO There are some things that are unclear. We need to talk. 
SCHINDLER I'd love to, it'll have to wait until I get back. I have to leave. 
The looks on their faces tell him he's not going anywhere. 
SCHINDLER All right, okay, let's talk. 
GESTAPO In Breslau. 
SCHINDLER Breslau? I can't go to Breslau. Not now. 
These guys are serious. 
EXT. AUSCHWITZ - DAY 
A young silver-haired doctor moves slowly along rows of Schindler's women, considering each with a pleasant smile even as he makes his selections, with tiny gestures, for the death chambers. He pauses in front of one. 
YOUNG DOCTOR How old are you, Mother? 
She could lie, and he'd have killed her for it. She could tell the truth, and he'd have her killed for that, too. 
WOMAN (pause) Sir, a mistake's been made. We're not supposed to be here, we work for Oskar Schindler. We're Schindler Jews. 
The doctor nods pensively, understandingly, it seems. Then -- 
YOUNG DOCTOR And who on earth is Oskar Schindler? 
He glances around hopelessly. One of the SS guards who accompanied the women from Plaszow speaks up -- 
PLASZOW GUARD He had a factory in Cracow. Enamelware. 
The doctor nods again as if the information were valuable, as if it meant something to him. It doesn't. 
YOUNG DOCTOR A potmaker? 
He smiles to himself and gets on with the "examination," this woman to this line, this other one to that. 
INT. CELL - SS PRISON, BRESLAU - DAY 
In a dank cell, in uniform, Amon Goeth waits. Schindler is on his way, hopefully. Maybe he's already here. Schindler will vouch for him. Schindler will straighten this out. 
INT. SS PRISON, BRESLAU - DAY 
In a large room, Schindler sits before a panel of twelve sober Bureau V investigators and a judge of the SS court. 
INVESTIGATOR Everything you say will be held in confidence. You are not under investigation. You are not under investigation. Mr. Goeth is. He is being held on charges of embezzlement and racketeering. You're here at his request to corroborate his denials. Our information onto his financial speculations comes from many sources. On his behalf there is only you. We know you are close friends. We know this is hard for you. But we must ask you -- 
SCHINDLER He stole our country blind. 
INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
In Schindler's absence, the workers attempt to operate the unfamiliar machines, to figure out the unfamiliar process of manufacturing artillery shells. There's movement, there's noise, the machines are running, but little is being produced. 
Untersturmfuhrer Jose Liepold, the Commandant of Schindler's new subcamp, moves through the factory conducting an impromptu inspection. He points out to a guard a kid no more nine, sorting casings at a work table, and another boy, ten or eleven, carrying a box. 
EXT. BARRACKS - AUSCHWITZ - NIGHT 
Mila and another woman cross back toward their barracks carrying a large heavy pot of broth. Not more than a hundred meters away stand the birch trees and crematoria, the smoke pluming even now, at NIGHT out of the darkness appear "apparitions," skeletal figures which surround the two women, or rather the soup pot between them, dipping little metal cups into it, over and over. 
Too startled to speak, Mila can only stare. The apparitions clamor around the pot a moment more, than furtively slip back into the same darkness from which they came. Mila and the other woman exchange a glance. The pot is empty. 
MILA Where's Schindler now? 
INT. HOSS' HOUSE - AUSCHWITZ - NIGHT 
In his en, over cognac, Auschwitz Commandant Rudolf Hoss considers the documents Schindler has brought: the list, the travel papers, the Evacuation Board authorization. Hoss nods at them, then at Schindler. 
HOSS You're right, a clerical error has bee made. (pause) Let me offer you this in apology for the inconvenience. I have a shipment coming in tomorrow, I'll cut you three hundred from it. New ones. These are fresh. 
Schindler seems to think about the offer as he nurses his drink. It's "tempting." 
HOSS The train comes, we turn it around, it's yours. 
SCHINDLER I appreciate it. I want these. 
The ones on the list in Hoss' hand. Silence. Then: 
HOSS You shouldn't get stuck on names. 
LEVARTOV Good, sir. 
Schindler nods, watches him work, eventually glances away. 
SCHINDLER Sun's going down. 
Levartov, following Schindler's gaze, nods uncertainly. 
SCHINDLER It is Friday, isn't it? 
LEVARTOV Is it? 
SCHINDLER You should be preparing for the Sabbath, shouldn't you? What are you doing here? 
Levartov just stares. It's been years since he's been allowed, indeed inclined, to perform Sabbath rites. 
SCHINDLER I've got some wine in my office. Why don't we go over there, I'll give it to you. Come on, let's go. 
Schindler heads off. The rabbi keeps staring. Schindler gestures back to him, offering casually -- 
SCHINDLER Come on. 
Levartov looks around. Finally, he hangs up his goggles and follows after Schindler. 
INT. WORKERS BARRACKS - NIGHT 
Under the shadow of a watchtower, among the roof-high tiers of bunks strung with laundry, Levartov recites Kiddush over a cup of wine to workers gathered around him. 
INT. GUARDS BARRACKS - NIGHT 
On their bunks, the guards relax with schnapps, cards and magazines. One of them becomes distracted by a distant sound. Some of the others begin to hear it. 
GUARD What is that? 
Conversations cease. The barracks gradually becomes quiet, silent, all the guards straining to hear. It sounds like... singing. It sounds like Yiddish singing. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - SAME TIME - NIGHT 
On a watchtower, a night sentry, unsure where it's coming from, listens to the distant singing. It seems like it's emanating from the surrounding hills, from the trees. 
INT. LIEPOLD'S QUARTERS - SAME TIME - NIGHT 
At his small desk, Liepold is typing a letter, denouncing Schindler most likely. The pounding keys bury all other sounds but when he pauses to reread what he's typed, he hears it, the singing, faint, far away. He goes to his window, peers out, listens for a moment more, then hears nothing. 
Only the night creatures. 
INT. APATMENT BUILDING - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT 
The door to an apartment opens from the inside revealing Emilie Schindler. She coolly considers the visitor on her doorstep, her estranged husband, looking great as usual, bottle of wine in his hand, smiling as if nothing is wrong between them, as if nothing is wrong in the entire world. 
INT. EMILIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
The two of them at the kitchen table in a modest apartment, drinking, at least he is. He's trying to ask her something, but he's not sure how to put it, he wants to get it right. 
Finally the words just tumble out -- 
SCHINDLER I want you to come work for me. 
There, he's said it. But the bewildered look on Emilie's face wonders, That's what was hard for you to say? 
SCHINDLER You don't have to live with me, I wouldn't ask that. (pause) It's a nice place. You'd like it. It looks awful. You get used to that. 
She's the only woman he's even known who could make him nervous just sitting across a table from him, saying nothing. 
SCHINDLER All right -- (now he'll be honest) We can spend time together that way. We can see each other, see how it goes -- without the strain of -- whatever you want to call it when a man, a husband and a wife go out to dinner, go have a drink, go to a party, you know. This way we'll see each other at work, there we are, same place, we see how it goes... 
His voice trails off. A shrug adds, What do you think? She doesn't answer, but she does love him. He loves her, too. 
It really is a shame they're not right for each other and never will be. 
INT. OFFICES - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Stern glances up from his work; Schindler and Emilie have come in and are walking toward the accountant's desk. He gets up. 
SCHINDLER Itzhak Stern, Emilie Schindler. My wife. 
Like the doormen and waiters of Cracow, Stern too never imagined Schindler was married and has trouble hiding his astonishment now. He extends his hand to her. 
STERN How do you do? 
EMILIE How do you do? 
STERN Stern is my accountant and friend. 
It sounds strange to Stern hearing Schindler actually say it. 
He's never said it before. 
SCHINDLER Emilie's offered to work in the clinic. To... work there. 
He's not sure what she's going to do there, she's not a nurse or a doctor. 
STERN (to her) That's very generous of you. 
LIEPOLD Department W does not forbid my presence on the factory floor. That is a lie. 
He waves a document at Schindler, throws it at him. 
Schindler doesn't bother picking it up. Instead, pointing at the boy, he yells to Liepold -- 
SCHINDLER Shoot him. Shoot him! 
Liepold is so startled by the command, he doesn't shoot. He doesn't lower the gun, though, either. 
SCHINDLER Shoot him without a hearing. Come on. 
His finger is on the trigger, Liepold is torn, frustrated, hating the situation he has created. As the moments without a blast stretch out, both and Schindler begin to settle down. 
LIEPOLD He sabotaged the machine. 
Schindler glances to the boy. Then at the silent Hilo beside him. Part of it is blackened from an electrical fire. To the boy, concerned -- 
SCHINDLER The machine's broken? 
The boy, too terrified to speak, nods. 
LIEPOLD The prisoner is under the jurisdiction of Section D. I'll preside over the hearing. 
SCHINDLER But the machine. 
Liepold glances to him. He seems almost distraught by the destruction of the machine, Schindler. 
SCHINDLER The machine is under the authorization of the Armaments Inspectorate. I will preside over the hearing. 
Liepold isn't sure that's correct, but he has no documentation, at least not on him, to refute it. 
INT. FACTORY - NIGHT 
In the machine-tool section, a "judicial table" has been set up. At it sit Schindler, Liepold, two other SS officers, and an attractive German girl, a stenographer. The "saboteur," the boy, Janek, stands before the court. 
JANEK I'm unfamiliar with the Hilo machines. I don't know why I was assigned there. 
Commandant Liepold was watching me trying to figure it out. I switched it on and it blew up. I didn't do anything. All I did was turn it on. 
Gone tonight is Schindler's usual shop-floor familiarity. He studies the boy solemn-faced. 
SCHINDLER If you're not skilled at armaments work, you shouldn't be here. 
JANEK I'm a lathe operator. 
Schindler dismisses the defensive comment with a wave of his hand and gets up. He comes around and paces slowly before the boy. Eventually, Janek dares to speak again -- 
JANEK Sir? 
Schindler glances up at him distractedly. 
JANEK I did adjust the pressure controls. 
Schindler stops, looks to the panel, and back to the boy. 
SCHINDLER What? 
JANEK I know that much about them. Somebody had set the pressure controls wrong. I had to adjust -- 
Schindler slams the back of his hand so hard across Janek's face, the boy almost falls. He's stunned. So are the others at the table. They've never seen such violence from the Direktor. He roars -- 
SCHINDLER The stupidity of these people. I wish they were capable of sabotaging a machine. 
Schindler's hand comes up again and Janek recoils, expecting another blow. Schindler manages to hold it. 
SCHINDLER Get him out of my sight. 
A guard escorts the prisoner away. The panel members glance among themselves. Is that it? Schindler faces them and groans in dismay. 
INT. LIEPOLD'S QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Liepold at his desk, typing again. This time there is no doubt he is composing a letter denouncing Schindler. 
INT. HOUSE - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT 
Schindler and Emilie, her arm in his, stand around like unwanted guests at the party. They probably are. Him anyway. The other guests include local politicians who fought and failed to keep his camp out of Brinnlitz. 
Whenever his glance meets one of theirs, they smile tightly. 
SCHINDLER (to Emilie) Isn't this nice. 
It's not at all nice. He feels out of place, a feeling he's not accustomed to. Fortunately, a man in uniform, someone Schindler can relate to, approaches cheerfully, his hand outstretched. 
RASCH Oskar, good of you to come. 
SCHINDLER Are you kidding, I never miss a party. Police Chief Rasch, my wife Emilie. 
RASCH How do you do? 
EMILIE You have a lovely home. It is nice. Big. 
The man lives well. 
Around the abandoned boxcar, in the gruesome cold, stand Schindler, Emilie, a doctor, some workers and some SS guards, watching, waiting. 
Pfefferberg steps back. Sledge hammers pound at locks. 
Hands pull at levers. The doors begin to slide. 
Out of darkness, from inside the boxcar as the doors slide open, Schindler's face is revealed, tight. He stares for an interminable moment before walking slowly away. 
Inside the boxcar is a tangle of limbs, a pyramid of corpses, frozen white. 
From a distance, a tableau: the boxcar, the workers and guards and Emilie outside it, Schindler, off to himself several steps away, all of them still as statues. 
EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - OUTSIDE BRINNLITZ - DAY 
Beyond a country church, among the stone markers of a small cemetery, walk Schindler and a priest. 
SCHINDLER It's been suggested I cremate them in my furnaces. As a Catholic I will not. As a human being I will not. 
The priest nods; he seems relatively empathic. He offers an alternative -- 
PRIEST There's an area beyond the church reserved for the burial of suicides. Maybe I can convince the parish council to allow them to be buried there. 
SCHINDLER These aren't suicides. 
The priest knows that. But he also knows that the provisions of Canon Law regarding who can and cannot be buried in consecrated ground are narrow. 
SCHINDLER These are victims of a great murder. 
INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
In a corner of the factory, workers hammer at pine lumber. 
They are building coffins. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
As workers harness horses to carts, others hoist the coffins into them. Schindler is there, watching. He glances up at one of the guard towers, expecting, perhaps, to be felled by a bullet. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Beyond the wire, Rabbi Levartov leads the horse-drawn carts. 
Around him walk a minyan -- a quorum of ten males necessary for the rite. A few guards lag behind. 
INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - SAME TIME - DAY 
Work continues, but it's apparent in their eyes they are only physically here; in spirit they are all walking alongside the carts, one great moral force. 
The roar of a machine suddenly, inexplicably, dies. Then another. And another. Schindler, standing at the main power panel, pulls the last of the switches, and the factory plunges into absolute silence. 
EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - DAY 
Just beyond the perimeter of the Catholic cemetery, the minyan quickly and quietly recites Kaddish over the dead as their coffins are lowered into individual graves. 
Then, there is only a low breathing of wind. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - ANOTHER DAY 
Amon Goeth, in civilian clothes, emerges from a car. His eyes, sallow from inadequate sleep, sweep across the fortified compound with envy. It's a nice place Oskar's got here. 
INT. OFFICE - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - SAME TIME - DAY 
Stern, at a window, stares down at Goeth beside his car. Softly, gravely -- 
STERN What's he doing here? 
Schindler appears beside Stern, glances down. He's lost weight, Goeth. The old suit he wears seems too big for him. 
Alone down there he seems disoriented. 
SCHINDLER Probably looking for a handout. 
INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Workers glance up at a horrible apparition from the pit of their foulest dreams -- Amon Goeth crossing through the factory. 
Schindler, his arm around the killer's shoulder as if he were a long lost brother, leads him across the shop-floor, proudly pointing out to him the huge thundering Hilo machines. 
INT. OFFICES, BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Schindler takes an old suitcase from his office closet, sets it on his desk, snaps it open revealing clothes, Goeth's uniforms, his medals. The ex-Oberstrumfuhrer touches the fabric gently, then glances up gratefully to his friend. 
GOETH Thank you. 
INT. OUTER OFFICES - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Beyond the frosted glass of Schindler's office door, Stern can see the wavering forms of the two Nazi Party members sharing cognac and stories. 
INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY 
Warmed by cognac and friendship, Goeth comes through the factory again carrying the suitcase, Schindler at his side, steering him to some degree. 
Goeth's hand comes up to his cheek as if to brush away a bothersome fly. But it isn't a fly. One of the workers has spit on him. He turns in disbelief. 
LEVARTOV We've written a letter trying to explain things. In case you're captured. Every worker has signed it. 
Schindler sees a list of signatures beginning below the typewritten text and continuing for several pages. He pockets it, this new list of names. 
SCHINDLER Thank you. 
Stern steps forward and places a ring in Schindler's hand. 
It's a gold band, like a wedding ring. Schindler notices an inscription inside it. 
STERN It's Hebrew. It says, 'Whoever saves one life, saves the world.' 
Schindler slips the ring onto a finger, admires it a moment, nods his thanks, then seems to withdraw. 
SCHINDLER (to himself) I could've got more out... 
Stern isn't sure he heard right. Schindler steps away from him, from his wife, from the car, from the workers. 
SCHINDLER (to himself) I could've got more... if I'd just... I don't know, if I'd just... I could've got more... 
STERN Oskar, there are twelve hundred people who are alive because of you. Look at them. 
He can't. 
SCHINDLER If I'd made more money... I threw away so much money, you have no idea. If I'd just... 
STERN There will be generations because of what you did. 
SCHINDLER I didn't do enough. 
STERN You did so much. 
Schindler starts to lose it, the tears coming. Stern, too. 
The look on Schindler's face as his eyes sweep across the faces of the workers is one of apology, begging them to forgive him for not doing more. 
SCHINDLER This car. Goeth would've bought this car. Why did I keep the car? Ten people, right there, ten more I could've got. (looking around) This pin -- 
He rips the elaborate Hakenkreus, the swastika, from his lapel and holds it out to Stern pathetically. 
SCHINDLER Two people. This is gold. Two more people. He would've given me two for it. At least one. He would've given me one. One more. One more person. A person, Stern. For this. One more. I could've gotten one more person I didn't. 
He completely breaks down, weeping convulsively, the emotion he's been holding in for years spilling out, the guilt consuming him. 
SCHINDLER They killed so many people... (Stern, weeping too, embraces him) They killed so many people... 
From above, from a watchtower, Stern can be seen down below, trying to comfort Schindler. Eventually, they separate, and Schindler and Emilie climb into the Mercedes. It slowly pulls out through the gates of the camp. And drives away. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ - NIGHT 
A panzer emerges from the treeline well beyond the wire of the camp and just sits there growling like a beast. Suddenly it fires a shell at nothing in particular, at the night -- an exhibition of random spite -- then turns around and rolls back into the forest. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - SAME TIME - NIGHT 
From a watchtower, a couple of workers, having witnessed the tank's display of impotent might, can make little sense of it. Below, many of the workers mill around the yard, waiting to be liberated. No one seems to know what else to do. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAY 
Some Czech partisans emerge from the forest. They come down 
the hill and casually approach the camp. Reaching the wire, they're met by Pfefferberg and some other workers, rifles slung over their shoulders. Through the fence -- 
PARTISAN It's all over. 
PFEFFERBERG We know. 
PARTISAN (pause) So what are you doing? You're free to go home. 
PFEFFERBERG When the Russians arrive. Until then we're staying here. 
The partisan shrugs, Suit yourself, and wanders back toward the trees with his friends. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT 
Five headlights appear out of the night, five motorcycles marked with the SS Death's-head insignia. They turn onto the road leading to the camp gate and park, the riders shutting off the engines. 
SS NCO Hello? 
Shapes materialize out of the darkness within the camp. 
Several armed and dangerous Jews. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - LATER - NIGHT 
As the cyclists fill their tanks with gasoline borrowed from the camp, the workers keep their rifles pointed at them. The NCO in charge lines the gas cans neatly back up against the wire. 
NCO IN CHARGE Thank you very much. 
He climbs onto his motorcycle. The others climb onto theirs. 
And drive away. 
EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - DAWN 
