He stops when he sees Somerset reflected in one of the mirrors. Somerset walks over, carrying a pizza box with paper piled on top.  He sits on a near bench, takes out a cigarette. 
SOMERSET Pizza and paperwork, Detective Mills. 
MILLS We need to chat. 
INT.  BASEMENT GYM, BOXING RING -- DAY 
Mills opens a door and enters with Somerset behind.  They are alone.  Chairs face an old, limp-roped boxing ring.  Practice pads hang from pegs on a wall.  Mills clasps a pair in his gloves, offers them to Somerset. 
SOMERSET No. 
MILLS You just hold them up.  I do all the work. 
Somerset takes the pads reluctantly, puts them on.  He still has the un-lit cigarette hanging from his mouth.  Mills climbs into the ring.  He holds the ropes open for Somerset, waits. 
Somerset doesn't want to do this, but he climbs up. 
MILLS (CONT) You've seen my files... seen the things I've done? 
SOMERSET Yes.  Impressive work. 
Mills motions to Somerset and Somerset holds up the practice pads.  Mills starts working them, lightly, warming up. THWACK... THWACK... 
MILLS So, what's your problem?  I've done my time on door-to-doors, and walking a beat. 
SOMERSET I know it.  That doesn't mean... 
MILLS I did all that shit a long time ago. 
THWACK... THWACK... Somerset's very stiff, uncomfortable. 
SOMERSET I made a decision, because I have to worry about the integrity of the scene. 
MILLS That's bullshit. 
SOMERSET When I'm on scene, I'm not going to worry whether you think you're getting enough time on the playing field.  I'm there to do the work. 
Mills punches a little more aggressively.  Somerset's backing, flinching, keeping the pads high.  THWACK... THWACK... THWACK... 
MILLS The badge in my pocket says "detective," just like yours.  I've been Homicide for four and a half years. 
SOMERSET You've worked Homicide for four years, or for five years... Don't count the half-years, unless you want to sound like a rookie. 
Mills unloads a mighty wallop and one practice pad recoils into Somerset's face, knocks Somerset on his ass. 
MILLS Oops.  My hand slipped. 
Mills walks, climbs out of the ring. 
MILLS (CONT) You fucked me over today, and you know it.  You know it. 
Somerset looks at the broken cigarette in his mouth.  He contains his anger.  He seems to realize Mills has a point. 
MILLS (CONT) Just don't jerk me off.  That's all I ask.  It's not much.  Don't jerk me off. (pause) Please, do me the favor of remembering that. 
Mills exits.  Somerset spits out the broken cigarette. 
INT.  URBAN SCHOOL, OFFICE -- DAY 
Tracy looks out a window from behind steel bars. 
Below her, young children play in a playground.  They're playing hop-scotch, throwing balls, chasing each other.  The swing sets are broken.  The handball wall is graffitied. 
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) I'm sorry, Mrs. Mills.  We don't have anything right now. 
Tracy looks away from the window to the haggard WOMAN.  The school's office is ill-equipped, busy, disorganized. 
WOMAN (CONT) We'll try to give you a call if we need substitutes next month. 
TRACY Thank you. 
Tracy looks back at the playground: on the other side of a chain-link fence, a butcher in a bloody apron walks down the ramp of a freezer truck.  he carries a big, whole, slaughtered pig on his shoulder. 
The pig's head flops as the butcher walks.  Some children stop their games and run to watch the man and the pig corpse pass. 
INT.  UNDERGROUND SUBWAY TRAIN -- DAY 
The train clatters through a tunnel, packed full, WHEELS SCREECHING.  The lights go on and off.  Passengers read tabloids, stare at their feet, study advertisements on the walls; anything to avoid making eye-contact with others. 
All races, creeds and colors; all ugly, forlorn human beings. Tracy stands fatigued, holding a handrail. 
A bag-lady, crusted with dirt, reeking, pushes her way through the crowd.  A man presses against Tracy in an attempt to let the bag-lady pass.  Tracy switches hands on the rail, turns sideways to make room.  She looks down. 
On one seat, a man, quite normal looking, sits holding a porno magazine, THREE-WAY FUCK, in one hand.  His other hand is in his pocket.  He's obviously masturbating himself in his pants.  No one else notices or seems to care. 
Tracy looks away, disgusted.  She closes her eyes.  The train's wheels SCREECH LOUDER as the train takes a curve. 
INT.  INDOOR FRUIT STAND -- NIGHT 
The front and one side of the shop are entirely open to the busy sidewalk and street.  A transparent plastic canopy frames the entrance.  A STRANGE MAN, 20, stands at the edge of the canopy. He wears a stained sweatsuit outfit and hums a song, oblivious. 
Tracy and Mills look together over the piles of fruits and vegetables piled on wooden stands which form tight aisles. 
MILLS It was okay.  I mean... it was certainly better than yesterday.  I think Somerset and I came to a small understanding... 
Mills holds his thumb and forefinger about a quarter of an inch apart to illustrate. 
MILLS (CONT) ...about this big. 
TRACY He sounds interesting. 
MILLS He is that, if nothing else. 
Mills throws some oranges in the basket hanging from Tracy's arm.  He goes to check out the carrots.  Tracy looks up from heads of lettuce to the strange man at the entrance. 
The strange man hums on, rocking back and forth slowly, his eyes glassy.  Customers come and go, paying him no mind. 
INT.  MILLS' APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Mills sits down at his desk.  He starts looking through police paperwork.  The RADIO in the other room goes OFF in mid song. 
INSERT -- TITLE CARD 
TUESDAY 
INT.  AUTOPSY ROOM -- EARLY MORNING 
The room is cold, clean.  Stainless steel.  White tile.  Many pathologists work at slabs.  Mills and Somerset are with DOCTOR SANTIAGO, 35, who stands over the mostly dissected obese corpse. 
SANTIAGO If you take a look here, buddies... I can tell you, it was not a poison. If you can see... I have emptied all of everything out of the stomach.  But, look at it, now that I took away the liver. 
Santiago reaches into the belly of the cavernous corpse.  Mills moves closer beside Somerset, but not too close, trying to hide his disgust.  We hear squashy sounds as Santiago works, but we don't see in. 
SANTIAGO (CONT) I move the lungs over.  First, see how big this fat son-of-a-bitch stomach is. Now... here is the strange thing, on the stomach.  Stretches. (pointing) And, here is it distended.  Look at the size of that, because of the foods. 
MILLS I can see what you're pointing at... 
SANTIAGO On the stomach.  The lines of distention. 
Somerset's looking in, not believing what he sees. 
SOMERSET Doctor, are you saying this man... ate till he burst? 
SANTIAGO Yes, well, he didn't actually burst.  He was bleeding, inside of himself. And, there's a hemotoma on the outside... on the belly. 
Somerset walks around the slab, looking the body over. 
MILLS He died by eating? 
SANTIAGO Someone punched him, or kicked him. 
Somerset notices something on the partially shaved head. 
He leans close to look at five or six small bruises on the back of the dead man's head; circular bruises, some darker than others, all about the same diameter as a dime. 
SANTIAGO (CONT) Oh, and there is this here... something else you have to look at and see. 
Somerset stands straight, realizes something about the bruises. 
SANTIAGO (CONT) Most of his stomach contents are in the lab now... but, this.  I found these in the fat man's stomach. 
Santiago looks amongst tools, buckets and jars of liquid.  He picks up a glass jar and shows it to Mills.  In the jar: many little bits of blue plastic.  Like scrapings. 
MILLS Plastic? 
Mills gets Somerset's attention, hands him the jar.  Somerset looks at it a long time. 
SANTIAGO Why these were in a fat man's stomach, I don't know. 
INT.  APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, HALLWAY -- MORNING 
Outside the door to the murder scene, Mills and Somerset cut through the RESTRICTED AREA/CRIME SCENE seal. 
SOMERSET Those bruises on the back of the victim's head were caused by the muzzle of a gun. 
MILLS So, the killer had him at gunpoint, and gave him a choice: eat, or get your head blown off. 
INT.  APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, KITCHEN -- MORNING 
Somerset and Mills enter.  Somerset takes out the jar of plastic scrapings, turns on the now normal light.  They begin to search. 
SOMERSET He was force-fed... till his body started rejecting the food.  He literally couldn't eat another bite. 
MILLS So, the killer held a bucket under him. 
SOMERSET His throat was swollen from the effort. He was bleeding internally. He must have blacked out... and, if you're the killer, you're not going to want to wait around for him to die. 
Somerset examines the counter tops and wall.  Mills gets down on his knees, examines the linoleum floor. 
MILLS You kick him, pop him like a fucking balloon. (touches floor) Somerset, look here. 
Somerset gets down, holds the jar against the linoleum. 
SOMERSET Same color and texture. 
They both crawl on hands and knees, study every inch of floor. 
MILLS If this is what that is... it doesn't make sense.  It doesn't figure. 
SOMERSET Always look for one thing to focus on. There's always one singular thing, and it might be as small as a speck of dust, but find it and focus... till it's an exhausted possibility. 
MILLS How are pieces of the floor going to get in the guy's stomach? 
SOMERSET Exactly.  Why would so many pieces be inside his stomach unless they were placed there intentionally? 
Somerset notices deep scratches in the linoleum, fingers the grooves.  He takes a piece of plastic from the jar, holds it to the scratches, fiddles with it, fits it in.  He looks up to see, these scratches are in front of the refrigerator.  It looks like they were caused by the refrigerator having been pulled away from the wall and pushed back at some time. 
INT.  APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, KITCHEN -- LATER MORNING 
We are BEHIND THE REFRIGERATOR as it is rocked back and forth. It's pulled away from the wall.  Somerset and Mills strain, pull a few more feet, then release.  They lean to look -- 
The refrigerator had hidden a space on the wall where the dust has been cleared.  In that space: a circle, smeared in grease, and a note taped in the center of the circle. 
Somerset's BEEPER starts BEEPING.  Mills leans to read: 
MILLS "Dear Detectives.  Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to the light." (looks at Somerset) This is not good. 
SOMERSET Milton. 
MILLS What? 
SOMERSET It's a quote from a book.  Milton's Paradise Lost. 
Somerset takes out his beeper, looks at the LED window.  He looks up at Mills, like they've received very bad news. 
Mills stands.  Somerset will not look him in the eye.  Mills leaves, slams the door.  Somerset seems deflated. 
CAPTAIN (CONT) You win, Somerset.  You're out. 
INSERT -- TITLE CARD 
WEDNESDAY 
EXT.  CITY STREET -- MORNING 
A vendor lays out a pile of tabloid newspapers at his busy newsstand.  The headline: SECOND BIZARRE MURDER!, in huge print. 
The vendor lays out another tabloid pile.  Headline: "GIVE ME MY POUND OF FLESH," SAYS BLOODTHRISTY KILLER, in big, red letters. The vendor places a third pile beside the others:  SICKENING MURDERS - EXCLUSIVE DETAILS INSIDE!!! 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, SOMERSET'S OFFICE -- MORNING 
Old office.  Moving boxes on the floor.  The single window faces a billboard.  Somerset works on a manual typewriter.  He types hunt-and-peck, slowly.  His paperwork is on the desk in two sloppy piles.  A jarring SOUND is HEARD OFFSCREEN, like fingers on a blackboard.  Somerset looks up, irritated. 
A WORKMAN is working at the open door, holding the source of the sound, a razor blade he's using to scrape the words DETECTIVE SOMERSET off the door's window. 
WORKMAN Sorry. 
Somerset turns back to typing.  The captain steps in, looks at the workman, then drops more papers on Somerset's desk. 
As always, the neatly groomed captain clenches his jaw.  He looks around.  Two of boxes on the floor have DETECTIVE MILLS written across them.  The captain picks one up, puts it on top of the other.  He sits, watching Somerset, starts straightening the forms on the desk. 
CAPTAIN What are you going to do with yourself out there, Somerset? 
SOMERSET I'll get a job.  Maybe on a farm.  I'll fix up my house. 
CAPTAIN Can't you feel it yet? (pause) Can't you feel that feeling... that you won't be special anymore? 
SOMERSET (lying) I don't know what you mean. 
CAPTAIN You know. 
Somerset reclines, looks at the captain. 
SOMERSET Did you read in the paper today, about the man who took his dog for a walk? And how he was mugged?  And, his wallet was taken, and his watch.  Then, while he was still lying unconscious, his attacker stabbed him with a knife in both eyes.  It happened last night.  Not far from here. 
CAPTAIN I heard. 
SOMERSET I have no understanding of this place. 
CAPTAIN It's always been like this. 
Somerset saddles up to the typewriter.  Hunt-and-peck. 
SOMERSET Yes.  You're absolutely right. 
The captain lays the paperwork down in two neat stacks. 
CAPTAIN You were made for this work, Somerset. I can't believe you're going to trade it all in for a tool belt and a fishing rod.  But, I guess I'm wrong. 
The captain leaves.  Somerset looks up now that the captain's gone.  He grabs the paper piles and ruffles them back to their disheveled state.  He looks at the workman. 
The workman is looking at Somerset, has a rag in his hand to remove the last remnants of Somerset's name. 
SOMERSET (angrily) Put a little elbow grease into it! 
The workman is startled, continues his work. 
INT.  LUXURY APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, LIVING ROOM -- DAY 
The grandly furnished apartment where the second murder took place has been dusted for prints and searched. 
Two female forensics are at work. 
INT.  LUXURY APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, MASTER BEDROOM -- DAY 
Mills is seated in front of a long writing desk with many drawers.  All the drawers are open.  Mills looks through letters and stationary.  Nothing of use.  He tosses the pile back. 
He sits back, frustrated, yanks off one rubber glove, looks around the room.  Books have been taken off their shelves, the bed has been stripped.  The room has been given the once over. 
The victim's family photographs hang in expensive frames on one wall.  There are at least thirty photos of various sizes: ancestors, sons and daughters, grandchildren and friends.  An over-weight forensic, CHRIS, 35, leans in through the doorway. 
Mills looks up and Chris shakes his head glumly. 
MILLS He must have left us another puzzle to solve... somewhere. 
CHRIS We'll keep looking, but we're running out of possibilities. 
Chris leaves and Mills stands to stretch.  Something catches Mills' eye.  He walks over to the door, curious.  At the base of the open door, there's a ball of paper wedged under to act as a doorjamb.  Mills puts his glove back on, pulls the ball out. 
He uncrumples the paper as the door slowly swings shut.  The page has a drawing on it, of the sun with waves of heat at its edges.  There is a single eye in the center of the sun. 
An arrow is drawn in dried blood on the back of the closing door.  Mills notices this and pushes the door closed. 
The blood arrow points to the side and up, seems to be pointing to the photo gallery wall.  Mills goes to examine the photos. 
His eyes search each photo... one by one... till he sees it: 
MILLS Christ... 
A framed photo of a falsely pretty, middle-aged woman smiling and wearing pearls.  Under the glass, on the photo itself, circles have been drawn in blood around the woman's eyes. 
EXT.  CITY STREETS, DOWNTOWN -- NIGHT 
An assault on the senses.  Crowded streets and sidewalks.  On every corner, in every doorway, on every stairwell -- freaks, junkies, punks, leather boys and motorcycle girls.  A few tourists wander in the mix, heedful of the dangers around them. Buildings border narrowly. 
Somerset walks against the stream.  He carries a file. 
CAR HORNS HOWL.  MUSIC BLASTS from the entrances of clubs. REGGAE from one club is soon OVERTAKEN by RAP from a second story window.  TECHNO-POP blasts from the tattoo parlor. 
Somerset does not like this place, views it with disdain.  He walks to avoid two men fighting on the ground.  The men are pulling hair and pounding each other idiotically. 
Somerset takes a cigarette from a full pack, lights it as he crosses through the traffic jam in the street.  A VAGRANT steps up with his hand out. 
WILLIAM Yeah?  What happened to the idealistic super-cop I used to know? 
SOMERSET He became a realist. 
William grunts, flicks his cigarette away, takes out a bag of pills.  He palms a few, notices the judgment in Somerset's eyes. 
WILLIAM Oh... sorry. 
William turns his back to Somerset, pops the pills.  Out of sight, out of mind.  Somerset is disappointed, disgusted. 
SOMERSET (sarcastic) Not that I don't appreciate your recent artistic endeavors... but, what happened to the painter I used to know? 
William smiles like a dolt, laughs a little. 
WILLIAM I can't remember. 
INT.  WILLIAM'S STUDIO/APARTMENT -- LATER NIGHT 
Color photos of the first and second murder sit on a drawing table.  The top photos are like establishing shots, each taking in the entire display the murderer created. 
William examines with Somerset looking over his shoulder. 
WILLIAM Man... can I buy these from you? 
SOMERSET They're not for sale. 
Somerset lays out photos of the notes, triangle and circle: 
SOMERSET (CONT) What is it?  What's the murderer trying to say? 
William narrows his eyes.  Does not know. 
SOMERSET (CONT) What picture is he painting? 
WILLIAM (figuring) Wait a minute... 
William has an idea.  He ambles over to a row of cabinets where oversized art books are stacked.  He hunts through a pile, shoves some books aside. 
WILLIAM (CONT) I... I've seen things like that... 
SOMERSET Where? 
William keeps digging, finds one book, finds another.  He opens one as he walks back to the drawing table. 
WILLIAM It's church stuff.  Christianity. 
William lays a book down, finds a page.  He opens it to Somerset.  There is a circle to the side of the text.  It says GLUTTONY under the circle. 
Somerset creases his brow, turns the page.  William opens another book. 
WILLIAM (CONT) When it first started... Christian artwork was all from Bible stories.  It was like... nobody had any imagination. It was all... standardized. 
William pages through and we catch glimpses of the bizarre, worlds of Hieronymus Bosch.  Horrifying religious visions. 
WILLIAM (O.S.,CONT) But, later, everyone started painting to tell their own stories... to teach lessons.  Guys like Bosch, Bregel the elder... Van Eycks. 
William shoves the open book to Somerset.  Somerset looks: 
Seven paintings in a circular pattern showing characters giving in to sins.  Wicked, grotesque people. 
Somerset turns the book to examine each painting right side up. 
SOMERSET (O.S.) The seven deadly sins. 
WILLIAM (O.S.) That's what these murders remind me of. Paintings like these. (points) Gluttony... greed... 
SOMERSET (O.S.) Envy, wrath, pride, lust and sloth. Seven deadly sins. 
WILLIAM Amen, brother. 
William goes to continue pulling other books. 
WILLIAM (CONT) I can find more examples.  There's lots of paintings like those... painted over hundreds of years. (moves books) And you're right... that murderer is an artist. 
Somerset is chilled by all this, immersed in the Bosch book. 
SOMERSET And, it's two down... five to go. 
EXT.  CITY STREET, PORNO DISTRICT -- NIGHT 
A bright, tawdry intersection.  Neon swirls and circuit-bulbs on porno theatres provide the flash.  Cars, taxies, and barkers urging sexual indulgence from doorways provide the noise. 
The streets and sidewalks are crowded with lonely humans, mostly men, looking around, sizing up promises made on porno placards: FUN WITH NUDES, BIG BOOBS, NAKED DESIRE, etc.  The usual contingent of abnormal cretins wanders in the crowd, looking for someone to hurt. 
MOVE through the crowds.  Meet JOHN, a balding, middle-aged man, wearing thick glasses.  There is not a single thing strange or unusual about his appearance.  FOLLOW him as he walks.  He's nervous, looking at the porno palaces. 
His sweaty hand clutches a Bible tight against his chest.  He doesn't feel comfortable being here. 
John walks to a corner, waits for the light so he may cross.  A grotesque STREET PREACHER approaches waving his own Bible. People walk away from him, so he confronts John. 
PREACHER ...are you, Sir?  Is Jesus Christ your Lord and Master?  Do you believe in Him? 
John tries to ignore, traffic blocking his escape. 
PREACHER (CONT) (pleading) Don't ignore me.  Listen to what I have to say.  Christ can be your savior! 
JOHN (quiet anger) Leave me alone. 
PREACHER Think about God, sir.  I can help you let Him into your life. 
Finally the light changes.  John turns and spits in the preacher's face.  The preacher recoils as John crosses quickly. 
John hurries between cars in the crosswalk.  The preacher curses from the corner, his voice drowned out in traffic. 
EXT.  ANOTHER CITY STREET, PORNO DISTRICT -- NIGHT 
People pass on the sidewalk.  John is amongst them, but he stops, looking up at something offscreen. 
SOMERSET My future. 
Tracy tilts her head, looking at Somerset. 
TRACY You have a strange way about you, Somerset... I mean in a good way... unusual. 
Somerset doesn't know what to say.  He pockets the paper rose. 
TRACY (CONT) I apologize.  I'll get out of your hair. 
Tracy stands, takes the chair back to the kitchenette. 
TRACY (CONT) It's just... it's nice to hear a man who talks like that.  If David saw that paper, he'd say you're acting like a homosexual.  That's how he is. 
SOMERSET (mock indignation) Well!  I guess I won't be showing this to him then. 
TRACY I suppose not. 
Somerset continues writing.  Tracy sits at the kitchenette table, watches him. 
INSERT -- TITLE CARD 
THURSDAY 
EXT.  CITY MORGUE -- MORNING 
It's raining hard.  Mills exits the morgue building with a few art books and a paper cup of coffee.  He holds one art book over his head as he dashes through deep puddles in the street. 
INT.  MILLS' CAR -- MORNING 
Mills gets in, puts his coffee on the dash and tosses the art books in a box.  He closes the door.  Alone with the sound of the rain.  He wipes water off his face, looks at his tired eyes in the rearview mirror. 
He reaches in the box of books, takes out copies of The Canterbury Tales and Dante's Purgatory.  He makes a face, opens Dante's Purgatory: 
|                                     THE EARTHLY PARADISE    | |                               VII The Lustful         /____\| |                                VI The Gluttonous    /_______| |       7 TERRACES OF                                /        | |                                 V The Avaricious  /         | |                                   and Prodigal   /__________| |         PURGATION                               /           | |                             IV The Slothful  /______________| |                     III The Wrathful     /__________________| |                      II The Envious    /____________________| |                       I The Proud    /______________________| |                                   /       THE ISLAND        | |                                 /        OF PURGATORY       | 
Mills turns to a bookmark, rests the book on the steering wheel. He reads.  He bites his lip, leaning close to the words.  He concentrates, mouths some of the words to himself.  He finally closes the book, shaking his head, not understanding anything he's reading.  He starts pounding the book against the steering wheel with all his might. 
MILLS Fucking Dante.  Goddamn, poetry writing freak, mother-fuck... 
A figure outside the window knocks on the glass.  Mills rolls it down.  A COP in raincoat hands a wet paper bag through. 
MILLS (CONT) Good work, Officer.  Good work. 
The cop leaves as Mills quickly rolls the window up and rips the bag open.  Inside: Cliff Notes for Dante's Purgatory and The Canterbury Tales. 
MILLS (CONT) Thank God. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, SOMERSET'S OFFICE -- DAY 
It still rains outside.  Somerset enters, stops to notice DETECTIVE MILLS painted on the door where his name used to be. He walks, sees all his belongings have been moved from his desk and piled on a small temporary desk in the corner. 
Somerset sits at the temporary desk, starts organizing the files and papers.  Mills enters carrying the box of books. 
SOMERSET How's it coming? 
MILLS Great. 
Mills puts the box on the large desk.  They both settle in, attending to their work.  Two men, about five feet apart, each trying not to acknowledge the other's presence. 
Mills takes out his Cliff Notes, looks to see Somerset is occupied, hides them in a desk drawer. 
Somerset finishes one form, flips it and looks up.  There's a chalk board nailed to the wall. 
On the chalkboard:     1 gluttony(x)    5 wrath 2 greed(x)       6 pride 3 sloth          7 lust 4 envy 
The PHONE RINGS.  Both men look at it.  Phone RINGS again. 
SOMERSET It's your name on the door. 
Mills picks up.  Somerset returns to his work. 
MILLS (into phone) Detective Mills here. (lowers voice) Honey, I asked you not to call unless... (listens) What... why?  Okay... okay.  Hold on. 
Mills is confused.  He holds the phone out to Somerset. 
MILLS (CONT) It's my wife. 
Somerset looks quizzical.  Mills shrugs.  Somerset takes it. 
SOMERSET (into phone) Hello? (listens) Yes, well... I appreciate the thought, but... I... (listens) Well, I guess I'd be delighted to. Thank you... goodbye. 
Somerset gets up, hangs up, puzzled.  Mills is waiting. 
MILLS Well? 
SOMERSET I'm invited to have a late supper with you and your wife.  And I accept. 
MILLS How's that? 
SOMERSET (sits back down) Tonight. 
Mills looks at the phone, lost. 
INT.  MILL'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM/KITCHENETTE -- NIGHT 
A record player on a moving box PLAYS QUIET MUSIC. 
There's a basketball game with NO VOLUME on the t.v. screen. Tracy, Mills and Somerset eat at the kitchen table.  Mills has a beeper by his beer and occasionally fingers it absently. 
TRACY Why aren't you married, Somerset? 
MILLS Tracy.  What the hell? 
Somerset adjusts his napkin on his lap, thinking. 
SOMERSET I was close.  It just didn't happen. 
Somerset holds the books up to Mills, points to a picture of the sun and eye, same as the drawing Mills found. 
SOMERSET (CONT) "The Sun in Splendor with the Eye."  It refers to God the father, and to Saint Thomas Aquinas. 
MILLS Which saint is he? 
SOMERSET Aquinas wrote a summary of theology, Summa Theologica.  And he wrote about the seven deadly sins. 
Mills takes the book and looks it over. 
SOMERSET (CONT) Now, what else have you got? 
MILLS Look, I appreciate being able to talk this out, but... it's my case. 
SOMERSET So... satisfying my curiosity.  I'm still leaving town on Sunday. 
Mills is pondering, very tired.  He unlatches his briefcase, takes a photocopy of the photo of the falsely pretty woman and hands it to Somerset. 
MILLS The eyes were circled.  With Mr. Gold's blood. 
SOMERSET This is his wife? 
MILLS (nods) She was away on business.  She got back the day he was killed.  If this means she saw anything, I don't know what. We've questioned her about ten times. 
SOMERSET And, if it's a threat? 
MILLS We put her in a safe house. 
SOMERSET This is the one thing. 
MILLS I know. 
EXT.  SLUM TENEMENTS -- NIGHT 
Two twenty-story tenement buildings stand practically underneath the span of a bridge.  The streets are littered with garbage. Teenagers stand in cliques in front of a liquor store.  Cars pass slowly, CAR STEREOS PUMPING out HIP HOP. 
Under the bridge, in shadow, a car is parked between two dumpsters.  The trunk is open. 
AT THE BACK OF THE CAR 
The trunk is full of cardboard boxes which are in turn full of tall, orange candles.  Hundreds of candles.  JOHN leans in under the trunk's bulb, opens a leather pouch and checks the contents: 
A plastic bottle of prescription pills.  A bottle of aspirin.  A hypodermic needle filled with liquid.  Lastly, many jars of baby food: STRAINED CARROTS, STRAINED SPINACH, CREAMED CORN, etc. 
INT.  SLUM TENEMENT BUILDING, STAIRWELL -- NIGHT 
John climbs the stairs holding the leather case and a closed shoebox.  He wears clip-on sunglasses, a hat pulled low, a thin overcoat on his plump body. 
INT.  SLUM TENEMENT BUILDING, HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
John comes from the stairwell door, looks, walks up the hall. The walls are graffitied.  The soiled floor is wet in spots. ARGUMENTS and LOUD CHILDREN are HEARD from behind closed doors. John comes to apartment 303.  He's winded from the climb.  He takes out keys, lets himself in.  Closes the door. 
EXT.  MILLS' APARTMENT BUILDING, ROOFTOP -- NIGHT 
Somerset stands at the edge, holding the photo of Mrs. Gold.  He puffs on a cigarette, looks out at the city lights. 
SOMERSET It's like he's preaching. (pause) The sins were used in medieval sermons. There were seven cardinal virtues, and then seven deadly sins, as a learning tool.  The sins distract man from true worship.  True faith. 
Mills is seated at the table with art books open. 
A breeze fans the pages of the books.  The flipping pages reveal views of heaven, hell, adoration, crucifixion and sin. 
MILLS Like in these paintings, and in Dante's Purgatory, right?  But, in Purgatory, Dante and his buddy climb that big mountain... 
SOMERSET Seven Terraces of Purgation. 
MILLS Anyway... pride comes first, not gluttony.  And in all the paintings, the sins are in a different order.  I can't find a pattern. 
SOMERSET Because there's creativity in the mix. Consider these books as the murderer's inspiration.  Or aspiration. 
Somerset drops his cigarette to the empty street, watching the glowing tip fall.  He looks at the woman's circled eyes. 
SOMERSET (CONT) He sees himself contributing to the body of Christian work. 
MILLS He's punishing these people. 
SOMERSET For all of us to see and learn from. These murders are like forced attrition. 
MILLS What?  Forced what? 
SOMERSET Attrition.  When you regret your sins, but not because you love God. 
MILLS Because someone's holding a gun on you. 
Somerset thinks.  He walks from the edge to Mills. 
SOMERSET When Mr. Gold's wife found the body, about how long was she in the apartment? 
MILLS She didn't find it.  The door to the apartment was open and a neighbor... 
SOMERSET I thought you said she found the body. When she got back from a business trip. 
MILLS No.  She got back after you and I had already been there. 
Somerset thinks, coming up with something. 
MILLS (CONT) What? 
Somerset holds up the photo of Mrs. Gold. 
SOMERSET Maybe she is supposed to see something... she just hasn't had a chance to see it yet. 
INT.  SAFE HOUSE -- NIGHT 
The room is like a bland hotel room.  Mills stands beside MRS GOLD.  He shows her photos from the murder scene.  Mrs. Gold is crying.  Somerset stands across the room. 
MILLS Please, look for anything strange or out of place.  Anything at all. 
MILLS (CONT) He fucked us. 
Somerset backs away from the wall, staring at the space where the painting hung.  There is only a nail.  He stares intently, then turns and walks out of the room. 
Mills holds his hands to his temples, furious.  SOMERSET can be HEARD from the other room, going through drawers, dropping things.  GLASS is HEARD BREAKING.  Mills grabs a lamp and throws it on the floor. 
MILLS (CONT) Son of a bitch! 
Somerset comes back in, holding something.  He steps over the lamp and goes to the blank wall space. 
MILLS (CONT) What? 
SOMERSET Bear with me. 
Mills watches.  Somerset has a woman's make-up compact in hand. He opens it, uses the soft brush to begin applying the red rouge powder to the wall around the nail. 
MILLS (incredulous) Oh, yeah, sure.  You got to be kidding. 
SOMERSET Shut up and wait! 
Somerset brushes with wider strokes.  He blows, leans very close to the wall to study the powder.  Leans closer still.  Pause. 
SOMERSET (CONT) Call the print lab.  Now. 
INT.  MILLS' APARTMENT, BEDROOM -- NIGHT 
Tracy is asleep with lights on.  She stirs, opens her eyes. 
INT.  MILLS' APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Tracy opens the door, enters.  It's quiet.  She sees Mills and Somerset are gone.  She's all alone.  Unhappy. 
EXT.  MILLS' APARTMENT, FIRE ESCAPE -- NIGHT 
Through the window, we can see into the bedroom.  Tracy comes back from the living room.  She goes to her side of the bed, kneels.  She reaches between the mattress and bedspring, takes out a paperback book she has hidden there. 
She comes to the window, opens it and climbs out onto the fire escape.  She sits, dangles her feet through the metal bars.  She opens the book and tries to read by the street light, resting her head against the railing.  A WOMAN is HEARD SCREAMING distantly. 
Tracy looks down the empty street, unsettled.  The woman is not heard again. 
Tracy lays back, looks at the sky, holding herself.  We can now see the title of the book: PREPARING FOR PARENTHOOD.  There is a picture of a baby on the cover. 
Tracy cries, quietly. 
INT.  LUXURY APARTMENT/CRIME SCENE, LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
A MALE FORENSIC uses a magnifying glass to study a very clear fingerprint in black powder on the wall. 
FORENSIC Oh, boy... 
MILLS (O.S.) Talk to me. 
The forensic bites his lip, still studying. 
Mills and Somerset watch the forensic who works offscreen. 
MILLS (CONT) (to Somerset) Listen, honestly... have you ever seen anything like this?  Been involved in anything remotely like this? 
SOMERSET No.  I have not. 
FORENSIC (O.S.) Well, I can tell you this, detectives... 
The forensic steps down from a stool.  Behind him, where the painting once was, there are fingerprints, clear and distinct. The prints have been left side by side, to form letters which form the words: HELP ME. 
FORENSIC (CONT) ...just by studying the underloop... these are not the victim's prints. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, PRINT LAB -- NIGHT 
Dark.  A TECHNICIAN sits before an old computer.  The computer's green screen shows fingerprints being aligned, compared and then rejected; whir - click - whir - click - whir - click.  Mills and Somerset watch, bathed in the green glow. 
SOMERSET It doesn't work for me.  I can't believe he wants us to help him stop. 
MILLS Who the hell knows?  There's plenty of schizoids out there doing dirty deeds they don't want to do.  With tiny voices whispering nasty things in their ears. 
Somerset doesn't buy it.  The technician adjusts a knob. 
TECHNICIAN I've seen this baby take three days to finish a cycle, so you guys can go cross your fingers somewhere else. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Somerset and Mills come from the print lab.  A janitor is mopping the hall.  The computer is HEARD WHIRRING AND CLICKING onwards.  Somerset sits with a groan on a couch outside the door.  Mills flops beside him. 
SOMERSET You really meant what you said to Mrs. Gold.  You really believe we'll get him, don't you? 
MILLS And you don't? 
SOMERSET I wish I still thought like you.  I'm so far gone from that. 
MILLS So, tell me what you think we're doing. 
SOMERSET All we do is pick up the pieces.  We take all the evidence... all the pictures, statements.  Write everything down and note what time things happened. We take it all, make a nice, neat pile and file it away.  Just in case it's ever needed in a courtroom. 
MILLS You're unbelievable.  In my entire life, you're the oldest man I've ever met. 
SOMERSET I've seen even the most promising clues lead to dead ends.  Hundreds of times. 
MILLS I've seen the same.  I'm not the country hick-boy you seem to think I am. 
Somerset takes out a cigarette and lights it. 
SOMERSET In this city, if all the skeletons came out of all the closets... if every un- revenged corpse were to suddenly rise and walk again, there would be no more room for the living. 
Mills slumps back, crosses his arms, closes his eyes to sleep. 
MILLS Don't try to tell me you didn't get that rush tonight... that adrenalin.  Like we were getting somewhere. (pause) And, don't try to tell me it was because you thought we found something that would play well in a courtroom. 
Somerset looks at Mills, puffs the cigarette.  The computer is heard: whir - click - whir - click... 
MILLS Get up now, motherfucker!  Now! 
INT.  SLUM APARTMENT, ADJOINING ROOM -- MORNING 
The blond cop enters, gun trained, looks around in confusion. 
The room's tables, chairs and floor are covered with hundreds of colorful, plastic air fresheners. 
INT.  SLUM APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM -- MORNING 
Somerset moves in, looks around.  He notices the area around the bed, the ceiling, walls and floor, has been painted indigo, while the rest of the room is its original white.  On a wall, a white sheet is pinned up with a square drawn on it in excrement. 
MILLS I said get up, Sleepyhead! 
Mills pulls the indigo blanket off the bed, reveals the shriveled, sore-covered form of a black man who is blindfolded and tied to the bed with a thin wire wrapped time and time again around the bed.  Tubes lead from the stained loincloth around the man's waist and snake under the bed.  The victim is partially covered by what seem to be piles of black spaghetti. 
CALIFORNIA Oh, fuck me! 
Somerset pushes past the cops who recoil from the stench. 
MILLS Holy shit. 
SOMERSET Sloth... it's sloth. 
The black cop touches the black spaghetti.  Holds a piece. 
BLACK COP What the hell... those are dead worms. 
CALIFORNIA (to Somerset) Check this out, dick. 
California points with his gun to the end of the black man's right arm.  The hand is gone, severed at the wrist long ago. 
MILLS It's him.  It's Zero. 
SOMERSET Someone call an ambulance. 
CALIFORNIA Someone call a hearse, more like. 
The female cop has gone to the wall where the sheet is pinned up.  She pulls the sheet aside and finds: fifty-two polaroid pictures; all pictures of Zero tied to the bed, with a date written at the bottom of each.  it is a visual history of Zero's physical decay.  The blond cop enters from the other room. 
BLOND COP What the fuck is going on? 
MILLS Hey, California.  Get your people out. 
Somerset takes out rubber gloves and puts them on. 
CALIFORNIA You heard him.  Hit the hall, and don't touch anything. 
The other cops file out as Mills goes to examine the polaroids under the sheet.  Somerset replaces the sheet over Zero's body. California stays by his side. 
CALIFORNIA (CONT) It looks like he's some kind of friggin' wax sculpture. 
Somerset places his finger along Zero's throat. 
MILLS Somerset, you... you better look here. 
Mills studies the polaroids.  Somerset walks to join him. 
MILLS (CONT) All pictures of Zero tied to the bed. (crouches) The last one's dated three days ago. 
Somerset looks at the first photo.  In it, Zero is bound and gagged, but he is fit, healthy. 
SOMERSET (awed) The first photo... it's dated one year ago.  Almost to the day. 
California lifts Zero's blanket to peek under, examining with morbid curiosity. 
CALIFORNIA Mo-ther... 
Mills kneels and lifts the bottom of the sheet off the floor, finds an open shoebox.  On the box: TO THE DETECTIVES. 
MILLS What's this? 
California leans close to Zero's gaunt, blindfolded face. 
CALIFORNIA You got what you deserved, Zero. 
Somerset leans down beside Mills.  Mills looks through the shoebox.  Inside are plastic, zip-lock bags.  One bag contains small clumps of hair, one contains a yellow liquid... 
MILLS A urine sample... hair sample... fingernail clippings.  He's laughing at us. 
California is still close to Zero's face when suddenly Zero's lips twist.  Zero lets out a loud, guttural bark.  California jerks back in fear, shouting, falling over a chair. 
Mills and Somerset reel, standing.  They see California on the ground, scared out of his mind, pointing. 
CALIFORNIA He's alive! 
Mills and Somerset look towards the bed. 
Zero's lips move feebly as he lets out a sick, gurgling moan. 
CALIFORNIA He's still alive! 
EXT.  SLUM TENEMENT BUILDING -- MORNING 
A crowd has gathered.  Mills' car, the police van and two ambulances are parked on the sidewalk. 
INT.  SLUM APARTMENT, HALLWAY -- MORNING 
The siege cops are in the hall, holding neighbors at bay. 
INT.  SLUM APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM -- MORNING 
Three ambulance attendants are at the bed, working on Zero.  One attendant uses wire-cutters to clip Zero's bonds. 
INT.  SLUM TENEMENT BUILDING, STAIRWELL -- MORNING 
Mills and Somerset stand in the middle of one flight of stairs. They are both highly agitated. 
BLEEKER (O.S.,CONT) This is an example.  Gluttony is the sin, and the color is orange.  This particular manuscript is preserved from the 18th century. 
SOMERSET (O.S.) In the murders, gluttony is green. Greed is yellow.  Sloth is indigo. 
Bleeker steps away and Somerset gets closer to the pages. 
BLEEKER So, if this murderer is as precise as you say, then you need to find out at what period in history was gluttony green... and so on. 
SOMERSET Where do I look?  If the colors changed so often? 
BLEEKER (contemplates) There is one man... Father Stone. (pause) I haven't heard from him for quite some time.  This was his passion.  He spent his life studying the sins... and preaching against them. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, SOMERSET'S OFFICE -- AFTERNOON 
The chalkboard on the wall:  1 gluttony (x)       5 wrath 2 greed (x)          6 pride 3 sloth (x)          7 lust 4 envy 
Mills is behind his paperwork covered desk, listening to a uniformed OFFICER who looks over a report sheet. 
OFFICER Zero's landlord said an envelope of cash was in the office mailbox each month. He says, quote, "I never heard a single complaint from this guy and nobody ever complained about him.  He's the best tenant I ever had." 
MILLS There's a landlord's dream tenant.  A paralyzed man with no tongue. 
OFFICER Who pays his rent on time. 
MILLS Bring me everything as soon as it's transcribed. 
The officer leaves.  Mills starts sorting through piles on his desk.  He doesn't know where to begin. 
He sits back in his chair, looks at the collage-like collection of pictures pinned on the walls: photos and diagrams of the murder scenes, the drawing of the sun and eye, color pages and black and white copies of pages from art books. 
He stares, thinking.  He stands, takes a photocopy off the wall. The killer's first note: 
Dear Detectives, Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to the light. 
MILLS (to himself) Milton. 
INT.  CENTRAL LIBRARY -- AFTERNOON 
Big brass lamps hang from the high ceiling.  Mahogany chairs and tables run down the center floor which is bordered by three levels of balconies.  People wander like ants in an ant farm. 
Mills walks, taking it all in.  He goes to the circulation desk. Impatient patrons wait in a long line.  He watches the bored HEAD LIBRARIAN, female, 64, help an old man at the desk. 
She opens the old man's books, runs a laser pen over a bar code sticker, pushes a few buttons on a computer. 
INT.  CENTRAL LIBRARY, TOP BALCONY -- LATER AFTERNOON 
Near the balcony railing, overlooking the main floor, Mills sits before a computer card catalog.  He reads the computer screen, unsure.  He sets down his pad and pencil, cracks his knuckles, begins typing on the keyboard.  The computer gives off a quiet BEEP.  Pleased, Mills reads the screen.  Types. 
On the screen:                 TITLE / PARADISE LOST_ 
He hits return.  Reads the screen as information on the book appears.  He copies it on his pad, puts the pencil in his mouth. 
He types.  On the screen:      SUBJECT / JACK THE RIPPER_ 
Hits return.  Again, he copies info from the screen. 
INT.  INNER CITY CLOISTER -- AFTERNOON 
A monk opens a formidable gateway door, letting Father Bleeker and Somerset into a garden courtyard.  Bleeker now wears his priestly garb and collar.  The monastery's main building looms at the end of a pathway.  The building is stately, ivy-covered. 
BLEEKER Father Stone had a church and congregation of his own.  But, he... there were some problems.  The church is deserted now. 
SOMERSET Problems? 
Bleeker continues walking. 
SOMERSET (CONT) Father? 
INT.  INNER CITY CLOISTER, HALLWAY -- AFTERNOON 
The walls of the hallway are carved with images of saints. Bleeker whispers to Somerset beside a windowless door. 
BLEEKER There was a small orphanage attached to the church, overseen by Father Stone. This was almost thirty years ago. (hesitant) He was an excellent priest, devoted in every way.  Many in his parish demanded his return. 
SOMERSET Tell me what happened. 
Bleeker sees a NUN down the hall, coming towards them. 
BLEEKER Allegations were made... Stone was accused of abusing the children in his care.  But, those charges were never substantiated. 
SOMERSET What abuse? 
BLEEKER It was claimed... that the children were beaten.  And, punished severely. 
The nun is too close for Bleeker to speak freely. 
INT.  INNER CITY CLOISTER, STONE'S ROOM -- AFTERNOON 
The door is unlocked and opened by the nun.  Somerset enters and Bleeker waits outside as the nun closes the door.  It's dark. 
FATHER STONE, 73, is in a wheelchair.  Feeble and frail, eyes sunken in their sockets.  He looks up at Somerset. 
SOMERSET Father Stone.  I'm a policeman.  I'd like to ask you a few questions, if it's alright? 
The whites of Stone's eyes have yellowed.  He seems to nod. Somerset sits on a stool, close. 
SOMERSET (CONT) I want to ask you about the seven deadly sins. 
STONE The sins. 
SOMERSET Yes, father. 
Stone reaches out a hand to touch Somerset's face.  Stone's extremely long fingernails trail against Somerset's cheek and Somerset tries to hide his revulsion. 
STONE Are you one of mine? 
SOMERSET I don't... 
Mills fumbles in his pocket, takes out his pad and reads. 
MILLS (CONT) Let's say you take, Dante's Purgatory, call number eight-five-one-D, and... The Biography of the Marquis de Sade, ninety-two S-A-D-E.  Put those books in the system, and the computer can give you the name of anyone who's ever taken out both those books.  And, it doesn't just give you their name and address, it gives you a complete history of their library reading habits. 
Mills slaps the list in Somerset's hand. 
MILLS (CONT) (psyched up) If somebody's out there reading Paradise Lost and studying The Life and Times of Charlie Manson, I want to talk to them. 
Somerset looks up from the list, warming to it.  He starts looking around, searching for someone. 
EXT.  ABANDONED CHURCH -- LATE AFTERNOON 
Somerset and Mills exit down the stairs.  Somerset's still searching, holding the list.  He spies a uniformed cop, DARIO. 
SOMERSET Dario!  Come here. 
Dario runs up.  Somerset puts his hand on his shoulder and makes him walk with him.  Mills continues on to his car. 
SOMERSET (CONT) According to the Father, this orphanage wasn't around for more than five or six years in the late fifties.  So, I want someone to go to the Department of Child Welfare or City Hall and dig up all the records on this place.  Understand? 
DARIO I got it. 
SOMERSET Get a list of every child who attended this orphanage before it shut down.  Get it on my desk within the hour. 
Somerset releases Dario, who runs to obey.  Somerset goes to his own car.  Mills is driving to leave, stops, revs the engine. Somerset hands the computer list through the window. 
SOMERSET (CONT) You thought of this all by yourself? This was your brainstorm? 
MILLS Yeah.  Is that so hard for you to believe? 
SOMERSET It's a pleasant surprise. 
MILLS I'm not as stupid as I look. 
Mills peels away.  Somerset heads to his own car. 
SOMERSET (to himself) I guess not. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S OFFICE -- EARLY EVENING 
Seven large photos hang with the other materials on the wall: 
The seven tableau paintings.  Gluttony, greed and sloth, followed by vanity.  Vanity shows a woman standing in front of a mirror, staring at her image.  The floor around her is scattered with flowers.  The primary color is violet, and as in all the paintings, there is a quality of ugliness in the character. 
MILLS (O.S.) Ramirez.  Manuel Ramirez. 
SOMERSET (O.S.) No... I don't see any Ramirez. 
The lust painting is next.  It shows a man standing over a woman.  The woman is nude, under a sheet, and the man's features are bizarre, lecherous.  He wants that woman.  There are apples on the floor and on the bed.  The color is red. 
MILLS (O.S.) Elinski.  Dennis Elinski. 
SOMERSET (O.S.) No. 
Envy is particularly gruesome.  The Devil is seen hovering in the air, wearing a crown, his body orange and slick, wrapped in a cloak of flames.  His arms held high, his right hand grips a sword, a bolt of lightning, arrows, wheat, thistles, etc.  His left hand, holds a plain globe around which a serpent has wrapped itself.  He looks down at several pitiful mortals in a pit of fire.  The mortals reach for him, yearn for him, the skin on their bodies is stretched taut over their bones. 
MILLS (O.S.) Atwater?  Paul Atwater. 
SOMERSET (O.S.) No. 
Wrath shows a man surrounded by vaporous, satanic demons.  He stands in a puddle of blood, looking at his hands stained with and dripping blood.  Other than the rich red, the color is blue. 
Mills is at his desk, a good portion of the print-out list draped to the floor.  He rubs his eyes, sighing, gets back to it.  Somerset, at the temporary desk, studies his orphan list. 
MILLS Okay, here we go.  Listen to the books this guy's been taking out... (reading list) Basic Homicide Investigation.  Forensic Toxicology... The Encyclopedia of Modern Serial Killers... (looks up, excited) Of Human Bondage. 
SOMERSET That's not what you think it is. 
Mills is disappointed, runs his finger further down the page. 
MILLS Holy shit.  Somerset... (reading list) The Writings of Saint Thomas Aquinas. 
Mills points to the drawing of "the Sun in splendor with the eye" which hangs on the wall. 
MILLS (CONT) Aquinas.  Right? 
SOMERSET That's right.  Let me have it. 
Mills looks at the page... searching... 
MILLS Fuck... he used a false name. 
SOMERSET How do you know? 
MILLS His library card lists him as Jonathan Doe.  John Doe. 
Mills sits back, angry.  Something strikes Somerset as odd. Familiar.  He starts leafing quickly through the orphanage list. 
MILLS (CONT) What? 
Somerset finds what he's looking for. 
SOMERSET Christ... it's like a sick joke. 
MILLS What are you talking about? 
SOMERSET There is one boy here.  He was abandoned... no one knew who his parents were, so he was named at the orphanage... (looks at Mills) John Doe.  It's his legal name. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT BUILDING, HALLWAY -- EARLY EVENING 
Somerset and Mills climb stairs, turn a corner into this hall. 
MILLS It's impossible odds that this is him. 
SOMERSET We're focusing. 
MILLS I know, I know.  On one little thing. I'm not complaining.  I'll follow anything we get and I'll take it any way we can get it. 
Mills enters, tormented, weary.  He stands in the projector's bright beam, holds an 8" by 10" print. 
MILLS (O.S.) Somerset, we had him.  Goddamn it. 
He hands a press pass and the photo to Somerset. 
MILLS (CONT) The pass is a fake... we had him. 
Somerset looks at the photo, a picture of Mills and Somerset on the stairwell of the slum apartment building; the picture John took when he posed as a reporter. 
MILLS (CONT) We were that close to him. 
SOMERSET I know. 
Somerset motions to the huge canvas.  Mills looks: 
The painting is frightening collage, thick with paint.  The photo of Mills and Somerset has been incorporated in bits and pieces.  Duplicate images: enlarged eyes, hands, faces.  The faces have been ripped, scratched, mutilated.  Grainy eyes with holes jabbed in them are mounted in paint beside chopped broken arms.  Mills' head is on Somerset's body, and vice versa.  It's like a sick, fragmented vision of a slaughter house floor. 
EXT.  CITY STREETS -- NIGHT 
A block of burnt-out row homes and warehouses.  Stray, wild dogs roam in a pack.  A car turns down this street.  It's John Doe's car, moving fast.  Its headlights go out and it cruises, avoiding garbage cans in the street. 
FOLLOW the dark car.  Ahead, a few blocks away, we can see the only lights in this neighborhood, the flashing reds, whites and blues of police activity. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S CAR -- NIGHT 
John Doe brings the car to a stop.  He watches the police at work around the abandoned church.  He gives no discernable reaction, puts the car in reverse.  He looks behind as he drives back the way he came. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, KITCHEN -- NIGHT 
The refrigerator door is open.  A male forensic uses tongs to remove Zero's severed hand from behind soda cans and mayonnaise. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, ROOM ONE -- NIGHT 
The forensic walks through with the hand in a clear plastic bag, past a FEMALE SKETCH ARTIST who puts the finishing touches on a fairly accurate drawing of the balding John Doe. 
SKETCH ARTIST This is the guy? 
Mills stands over the artist.  Sarah, Billy and two deputy detectives are at work in the room, photographing, searching. 
MILLS Make sure it gets around. 
SKETCH ARTIST You got it.  Tomorrow morning, this city's good citizens will be on the lookout for Elmer Fudd. 
SARAH (to Mills) We can't find anything to hang onto.  No pay-stubs, no appointment books or calendars.  Not even a book of phone numbers.  And, you're not going to believe this... 
MILLS Keep looking. 
SARA It's just... we haven't found any fingerprints yet.  Not one. 
MILLS You know, you're right.  I don't believe it.  Keep looking. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, ROOM TWO -- NIGHT 
Somerset reads one of Doe's notebooks.  Three cops are looking through other notebooks from the shelves.  Mills enters. 
SOMERSET We need to put more men on this. 
MILLS I'm working on it, alright.  What have we got. 
Somerset bristles slightly at Mills' abrupt demeanor. 
SOMERSET We've got about five thousand notebooks in this room.  And, as near as I can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages. 
MILLS Then, he must write about the murders. 
Somerset looks at the notebook, reads. 
SOMERSET "What sick, silly puppets we are, and what a gross stage we dance on.  What fun we have, dancing around, not a care in the world.  Not knowing that we are nothing.  We are not what God intended." (turns pages) "On the subway today, a man came up to start a conversation.  He was making small talk, this lonely man, talking about the weather and other things.  I tried to be accommodating, but my head began to hurt from his banality.  I almost didn't notice it had happened, but I threw up all over him.  And I couldn't stop myself from laughing." (closes book) No dates indicated.  They're placed on the shelves in no discernible order.  He describes a scab on his arm for five pages, then writes about existential philosophy on the next. 
Mills walks.  He looks into the adjoining paint room. 
SOMERSET (CONT) It's just his mind poured out on paper. 
Mills leans in the doorway, looking at Doe's strange artworks. 
MILLS You were right.  He is preaching. 
The PHONE RINGS in the other room. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM -- NIGHT 
All attention is focused on the phone on Doe's desk.  A tape recorder is rigged to the receiver.  Mills and Somerset enter. Mills walks over, pushes a button on the recorder, picks up. 
MILLS (into phone) Hello... hello? 
JOHN DOE (V.O.) (from recorder) I admire you, David.  Imagine my surprise on finding you at my doorstep. I admire you more and more every day. 
MILLS (into phone) Okay, John.  Let's... 
JOHN DOE (V.O.) (from recorder) No, no, no!  You listen and don't talk. I suppose you found the painting and the photos.  This is just as well.  Now we all know we've all seen each other. (pause) I mean what I say.  I do admire you. 
Long pause.  Mills waits. 
JOHN DOE (V.O.,CONT) Oh, there is one other thing.  Fourteen hundred thirty.  West Eighty-sixth street.  Apartment six-o-four. 
John Doe hangs up. 
INT.  APARTMENT 604, BATHROOM -- NIGHT 
Somerset looks around this femininely decorated bathroom. 
In the sink, objects covered in blood: a pair of scissors, a hypodermic needle, first-aid tape and gauze bandages, a bottle of anesthetic for use with the needle, a straight razor. 
Somerset moves from the sink, looks in the bathtub.  The tub and shower walls are splattered with blood.  The tub has a few inches of water in it.  The water is cloudy red and bits of gauze float in it.  Somerset jiggles the drain's knob. 
Some bubbles pop up from the clogged drain. 
SOMERSET (CONT) I mean, literally. 
EXT.  CITY STREET -- NIGHT 
Somerset's car stops at the corner of Mills' street. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Somerset puts the car in park.  Tracy sits for a long time, then turns to face Somerset. 
TRACY You've lived here for so long, Somerset. You know this city.  I... 
Tracy can't quite figure how to put it. 
SOMERSET It's a hard place, Tracy. 
TRACY When David and I lived in Philadelphia, we could afford to live on the outskirts.  But now... (pause) I hate it here.  I feel scared, and I feel sick and... I hate it. 
Tracy wants to laugh, like it's silly, but can't pull it off. 
SOMERSET You have to put blinders on sometimes. Most times.  But, keep in mind, Tracy, like tonight, there are small pockets of sanity.  Some bars and bookstores. Museums.  Several last vestiges of civilization. 
EXT.  CITY STREET -- NIGHT 
In Somerset's car, Tracy and Somerset continue talking. 
On the other side of the street, closer to the middle of the block, John Doe's car is parallel parked at the curb. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Behind the wheel, John Doe is slumped low, calmly watching Somerset and Tracy.  He can see them clearly from here. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Tracy looks out through the windshield, fighting tears. 
TRACY I've visited so many of the schools, looking for work, you know.  And, the conditions are... horrible.  I can't believe how bad it is. (pause) Children shouldn't have to grow up here. 
SOMERSET You can always look into the private schools.  You'll find something. 
Somerset gives her a handkerchief.  She wipes her tears. 
SOMERSET (CONT) You're too hard on yourself, Tracy. 
She will not look at him, keeping herself under control. 
SOMERSET (CONT) It's okay to hate this city.  It's natural.  But, there is a bright side in all this.  There is.  You want to hear it? 
Tracy is able to muster a small smile. 
TRACY Oh, God, yes.  Please. 
SOMERSET I can't think of another place that needs education more than this city. And you're a teacher.  You can make a difference in a few people's lives. It's a very good thing. 
Tracy leans to give him a kiss on the cheek. 
TRACY Goodnight, Somerset. 
They remain close, looking into each other's eyes. 
SOMERSET Goodnight. 
Somerset reaches to touch Tracy's face.  They kiss.  They kiss a long time.  Tracy wraps her arms around Somerset's neck. Somerset runs his fingers through Tracy's hair.  They share their sorrow.  Tracy's tears run down her face.  Finally, they part, opening their eyes. 
They know this is wrong.  Somerset's hands are shaking.  He grips the wheel, feels helpless. 
SOMERSET (CONT) I'm sorry, Tracy.  I'm sorry. 
Tracy's face is flushed.  She is confused. 
TRACY I... I better go. 
Tracy gets out, neglects to close the door, not looking back. 
Somerset tries to come to his senses.  He doesn't understand either, and his heart is aching.  He adjusts the rearview mirror to watch Tracy go. 
INSERT -- THROUGH REARVIEW MIRROR -- SOMERSET'S P.O.V. 
Tracy walks down the block, straightening her hair.  She runs. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Somerset looks away from the mirror.  he holds his head in his hands for a moment. 
EXT.  CITY STREET -- NIGHT 
Somerset leans to pull the door shut, puts the car in gear. He drives, turns the corner. 
INT.  JOHN DOE'S CAR -- NIGHT 
John Doe watches Somerset's car leave.  Doe turns his attention to Tracy, who hurries along the other side of the street.  Tracy looks back, enters her apartment building, digs out her keys. She gets through the door and climbs stairs, disappearing. 
EXT.  CITY STREET -- NIGHT 
Doe gets out of his car. 
He looks both ways down the street, walks towards Mills' and Tracy's building. 
INT.  MILLS' APARTMENT, BEDROOM -- LATER NIGHT 
Mills and Tracy are asleep in their bed.  Mills' eyes shift under their lids.  Rapid eye movement. 
A SOUND is HEARD from the other room.  Mills awakens.  He lays still a moment, then gets up, slowly, reaches to take his gun off the bedside table.  He grabs his pants from a chair, slides into them. 
INT.  MILLS' APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM/KITCHENETTE -- NIGHT 
Mills opens the bedroom door and enters quietly, gun held up. He moves, crouching. 
EXT.  CITY STREETS, PORNO DISTRICTS -- AFTERNOON 
Porno theaters and Adult Bookstores rule these busy sidewalks. Marquees offer SEXY STUFF, PUSSY FEST and movies like MIDNIGHT PLOWBOY and NATIONAL LAM-PORN'S CHRISTMAS INSERTION.  Cops are walking through the pedestrian flow, handing out photocopies. There are many patrol cars on the street.  Definitely a larger than usual police presence. 
Cops are questioning the proprietors of porn at the entrances of their shops and theaters. 
Cops are taping photocopies onto lamp posts.  These photocopies are warnings, with the drawing of John Doe's face above a line of information and the words HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN? 
INT.  WILD BILL'S LEATHER SHOPPE -- AFTERNOON 
Somerset's holding up the composite sketch of John Doe. 
WILD BILL (O.S.) Yeah, he was here.  This morning. 
Mills and Somerset are across the sales counter from WILD BILL, 37.  Wild Bill is shirtless, covered in tattoos.  A thick scar runs down his forehead to his bent nose.  Leather belts, whips and jackets hang from the walls. 
MILLS It was definitely him?  You're positive? 
WILD BILL Yeah.  John Doe.  Easy name to remember. 
SOMERSET What was this job you did for him? 
Wild Bill pulls a box from behind the counter, digs in it. 
WILD BILL I got a picture of it.  That's what he came for this morning.  I figured he must be one of those art guys... like those guys who piss in a cup and drink it on stage.  Performance art. 
Wild Bill gives a polaroid to Mills.  We don't see the image. 
MILLS Oh, fuck... 
WILD BILL I think I undercharged him.  I was up all night working to finish it. 
SOMERSET (looks at photo) You built this for him?  You built this? 
WILD BILL I've built weirder shit than that. 
A BEEL CHIMES as a POLICEMAN enters the store. 
POLICEMAN Somerset... we have a situation. 
Mills and Somerset follow the policeman out. 
WILD BILL Hey, my picture! 
They're gone.  Wild Bill scratches his scar. 
WILD BILL (CONT) Fucking pigs. 
EXT.  THE HOT HOUSE MASSAGE PARLOR -- AFTERNOON 
It's a madhouse outside The Hot House.  Police action in progress.  Cops have formed a barrier, holding off a crowd and creating an aisle to the back of a jail-van.  Cops and detectives escort various men, women and transvestites into the large vehicle.  The crowd, consisting of the dregs of society, is angry.  Some spit and throw trash at the cops. 
INT.  THE HOT HOUSE, RECEPTION AREA -- AFTERNOON 
An ANGRY COP pounds his nightstick on a glass cage.  Inside the cage sits an oily FAT MAN in front of a wall of sex toys. 
FAT MAN Just wait! 
COP Get out of the fucking booth! 
FAT MAN Just wait!  I'll come out, just wait! 
INT.  THE HOT HOUSE, CORRIDORS -- AFTERNOON 
All the lights and walls are red.  Mills and Somerset follow a COP through the twisting corridors.  ROCK MUSIC THROBS.  They reach a door. 
COP I don't want to go in there again. 
INT.  THE HOT HOUSE, RED ROOM -- AFTERNOON 
Mills and Somerset enter.  ROCK MUSIC CONTINUES, LOUD.  A strobe light flashes from the ceiling onto TWO AMBULANCE ATTENDANTS. The first attendant places a sheet over a bed, hiding the corpse of a WOMAN with long blonde hair.  The second attendant tries to examine the pupils of a CRAZED MAN, 55, who sits naked on the floor, wrapped in a sheet.  A COP holds the crazed man down. 
CRAZED MAN He... he... he made me do it! 
SECOND ATTENDANT I have to look at you.  I have to look at you. 
An X is scratched into the red paint on the wall.  Mills and Somerset move towards the covered body. 
There are apples on the bed and floor.  The ROCK MUSIC from outside SUDDENLY STOPS. 
FIRST ATTENDANT You're not going to want to see this more than once. 
CRAZED MAN He had a gun!  He... he made me do it! 
The sheet is lifted for the detectives.  They grimace at what they see.  We do not see.  Somerset closes his eyes and walks to face a wall, shaken.  The first attendant replaces the sheet. 
Mills steps back, takes out his handkerchief and sucks on it. 
CRAZED MAN (O.S.,CONT) He made me do it! 
INT.  SANATORIUM, WHITE ROOM -- AFTERNOON 
A polaroid is on a white table.  It is the photo Wild Bill gave to Mills and Somerset.  It is a picture of a belt, made with extra leather straps so it can be worn securely around the groin.  It is a strap-on phallus, but there is no plastic protuberance.  Instead, there is a metal knife.  It is a strap- on butcher's knife. 
Somerset is seated beside the white table in this white room. Mills stands behind him.  The crazed man from the lust murder is in a chair across the room.  The crazed man is crying. 
CRAZED MAN And... and... and he said... he asked if I was married.  And, I could see he had a gun in his hand. 
SOMERSET Where was the girl? 
CRAZED MAN What?  What? 
SOMERSET Where was the prostitute? 
CRAZED MAN She was... she was on the bed.  She was just sitting on the bed. 
SOMERSET Who tied her down?  You or him? 
MILLS Damn it, Somerset.  You know Johnny's fucking with us.  He's pissing in our faces again! 
SOMERSET Slow up.  You and I are, probably for the first time ever, in total agreement. He wouldn't just stop. 
MILLS Well... what the fuck, man? 
SOMERSET John Doe's only two murders away from finishing his masterpiece, right?  But, can you even conceive of what might happen next?  I mean, can you tell me how he's going to go about it? 
MILLS (pause) No. 
SOMERSET I can tell you this; I recognize his lawyer.  His name is Mark Swarr.  He's the one who kept Zero out of prison. (pause) We'll wait for John Doe's plea. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, SOMERSET'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Mills is at the desk with his feet up, stares at the chalkboard: 
1 gluttony (x)       5 lust (x) 2 greed (x)          6 wrath 3 sloth (x)          7 envy 4 pride (x) 
Clock on the wall says 4:45.  Somerset packs books into boxes, preparing for his eventual departure.  The captain opens the door and steps into the office.  He clears his throat, looking like there is something very wrong. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, CAPTAIN'S OFFICE -- DAY 
Mills and Somerset stand together.  The captain is behind his desk with the D.A., Martin Talbot, seated in front of him.  Mark Swarr addresses them all, seems nervous, but in control. 
SWARR My client says there are two more bodies... two more dead, hidden away. He will take Detective Mills to these bodies, but only Detective Mills.  Only at six o'clock, today. 
Swarr wipes his brow with a handkerchief. 
TALBOT Oh, Christ. 
MILLS Why me? 
SWARR He says he admires you. 
SOMERSET (to captain) This is all part of his game plan. 
SWARR Mr. Doe claims that if the detective does not accept this offer, the bodies will never be found. 
CAPTAIN Frankly, counselor, I'm inclined to let them rot. 
Mills walks up into Swarr's face. 
MILLS You like what you do for a living? 
CAPTAIN Back off, Mills. 
SWARR I'm required by law to serve my clients to the best of my ability, and to serve their interests. 
Mills eases off.  Talbot is agitated, tapping a finger on the gold tooth in his mouth.  He looks at Swarr. 
TALBOT We don't make deals like this. 
CAPTAIN We're going to have to pass. 
SWARR My client... he also wishes that I inform you, if you do not accept, he will plead insanity, across the board. 
TALBOT Let him try.  I'd like to see him try! 
SWARR Come now, Martin.  Even he knows, with the nature of these crimes, I could get him off with such a plea. 
Talbot stands, wringing his hands.  Mills and Somerset are looking at each other, thinking it over. 
TALBOT I'm not letting this conviction slide. I can tell you that, right here and right now! 
SWARR He says, if you accept, under his specific conditions, he will sign a full confession and plead guilty... right here, and right now. 
Talbot looks at Swarr with hatred. 
MILLS I'll do it. 
SOMERSET Hold on... just a minute. 
Somerset turns to Talbot. 
SOMERSET (CONT) If he were to plead insanity... this conversation is admissible.  The fact that he's blackmailing us with his plea... 
SWARR And, my client reminds you, two more people are dead.  The press would have a field day if they found out the police didn't seem too concerned about finding them... giving them proper burial. 
MILLS I'll do it.  I want to finish it. 
Somerset is thinking it through.  He looks at Mills. 
SOMERSET (to captain) Well... let's get the fucking lawyer out of the room, and we can talk about how this whole thing's going to go down. 
INT.  PRECINCT HOUSE, BATHROOM -- LATE AFTERNOON 
Mills' hand reaches to the sink to pick up a razor.  He's shirtless, his chest covered in shaving cream.  He starts shaving in front of a mirror.  Somerset is behind him, smoking. 
SOMERSET If John Doe's head splits open, and a U.F.O. flies out, I want you to have expected it. 
MILLS I will. 
SOMERSET No emotion.  Stay as cold as ice. 
MILLS I will. 
Somerset flicks ash in the sink.  Mills finishes shaving.  He steps away from the sink and wipes his chest off with a towel. 
MILLS (CONT) (very serious) Listen, Somerset... we've been through a lot together.  And, I uh... 
SOMERSET What is it? 
MILLS I would like to make sweet love to you. 
Somerset walks away.  Mills laughs. 
SOMERSET Please... 
The helicopter dips, flying like a bullet over the city skyline, heading towards the river and the setting sun. 
EXT.  CITY STREETS -- LATE AFTERNOON 
FROM HIGH ABOVE, we see traffic on the highway at the polluted river's edge.  Cards and trucks move like blood through veins. 
DOWN CLOSER, we can see Mills' car in the flow.  The car turns into a lane of traffic on its way to the huge suspension bridge. 
Somerset's car is in close pursuit. 
UNDER THE BRIDGE, the police helicopter travels close to the water, moving parallel to the bridge, but low, so that it's out of the sightline of the vehicles above. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON 
Traffic is bumper to bumper.  Somerset moves his headset mouthpiece to smoke a cigarette.  He steers onto the bridge, under the massive girders. 
MILLS (V.O.) (from receiver) For us to go pick up two more dead bodies, and have that be the end of it... just seems too boring for you. 
INT.  MILLS' CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON 
Beyond the crest of the bridge, the sunset is crimson. 
MILLS Wouldn't be sensational enough. 
JOHN DOE Wanting people to pay attention, you can't just tap them on the shoulder. 
John Doe strains to turn, looks out the back window. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) Sometimes you have to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer... and then you get their strict attention. 
MILLS What are you looking at, Johnny? 
JOHN DOE Looking back... at the city proper... 
Doe situates forward, holds his hands in front of his face, looking at his bandaged fingers. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) And yet, no pillar of salt. (smiles to himself) Lost on you, isn't it?  You've never read the Bible, have you, David? 
MILLS I remember a lot of people reading it at me when I was a kid.  I preferred the classic comic version myself. 
This is an affront to Doe, angers him.  Mills sees it, likes it. 
MILLS (CONT) I used to have "Godspell" on an eight- track tape.  Does that count? 
Doe leans forwards, fury building in him. 
JOHN DOE You make me sick. 
MILLS Sit back, freak. 
Mills slams his fist against the partition.  Doe sits back. 
JOHN DOE (under his breath) Ignorant heathen. 
MILLS Right, right.  I forgot.  You think these murders were for God.  Right? (pause) I'm asking you seriously.  You really think what you did was God's good work? 
Doe looks out the window at other cars, refuses to answer. 
He's pressing the tips of his forefingers into his thumbs, causing blood to drip from under the bandages. 
JOHN DOE The Lord works in mysterious ways. 
EXT.  CITY STREETS, INDUSTRIAL AREA -- NIGHT 
It's getting dark.  We've been in this section of factories before, with John Doe.  The police helicopter soars overhead. 
INT.  POLICE HELICOPTER -- NIGHT 
California's looking down, wearing night-vision goggles. 
INSERT -- CALIFORNIA'S P.O.V. -- THROUGH GOGGLES 
The goggles allow California to see clearly into the maze formed by buildings, yards and worksheds below.  No one in sight. 
CALIFORNIA (O.S.) Fuck, man... there's about a thousand places to be ambushed out here. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT 
The headlights are off.  Mills' car's red brake lights are far ahead on this industrial road. 
CALIFORNIA (V.O.) (from headset) I don't see anything... not yet. 
SOMERSET (in mouthpiece) A quick sweep is all we get.  Clear out now.  You're right in front of us. 
Somerset reaches to turn up the volume on his radio receiver. Mills is HEARD SINGING "Jesus Christ Superstar," loud.  Somerset allows a very faint smile. 
INT.  MILLS' CAR -- NIGHT 
Mills drives along, singing. 
MILLS Jesus Christ, Superstar... who in the world do you think you are?  Jesus Christ, Superstar... 
Doe's in the back seat, trying to bear it, steaming. 
EXT.  INDUSTRIAL SKIES -- NIGHT 
The chopper goes high, away, over the industrial area. 
It moves to the other side of the factories and settles in low over the river. 
INT.  SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT 
Mills' tune comes to a conclusion.  Somerset slows the car as he sees Mills' brake lights go on ahead. 
JOHN DOE (V.O.) (from receiver) We can walk from here. 
SOMERSET (in mouthpiece) You stay out of this unless I call you in, California.  Understand? 
Somerset leaps out, takes out his gun.  FOLLOW as he runs into the junk-yard as fast as he can. 
MILLS (V.O.) (from receiver) I'm going in! 
INT.  POLICE HELICOPTER -- NIGHT 
The chopper's over the river.  California listens intently. 
MILLS (V.O.) (from headset) I have to go in after him! 
STATIC CRACKLES LOUD in his headset, then it GOES DEAD. California grips his mouthpiece. 
CALIFORNIA Somerset, what's going on down there?! 
INT.  UNDERGROUND WATERWAY -- NIGHT 
An underground pipe-way.  Mills tries to swim, is mostly carried in the flow.  He's battered against the sides of the pipe, holding his breath desperately. 
EXT.  INDUSTRIAL JUNK-YARD -- NIGHT 
FOLLOW Somerset as he charges onwards through the junk-yard, stumbling over pieces of metal.  He runs towards the alleyway. 
INT.  UNDERGROUND WATERWORKS -- NIGHT 
WATER ROARS.  A square pool of water churns.  A moment, then Mills rises, gasping, choking.  He's disoriented, furious, waving his gun, expecting Doe to be right on top of him. 
No one around.  Mills looks.  This is some sort of unmanned water switching station.  the walls are covered in catwalks, drainage pipes and tunnels.  Some tunnels and pipes spew water down into the central pool, others are sealed shut. 
Mills pulls himself from the central pool to a concrete spillway.  He stands up, searching.  Doe could be anywhere. 
MILLS Come on, Johnny!  I'm right here! 
INT.  UNDERGROUND WATERWORKS TUNNEL -- NIGHT 
There is a plastic bag with an automatic pistol and extra clip inside hanging from a protruding shut-off valve.  John Doe's hands tear the bag open, taking the contents. 
EXT.  WAREHOUSE ALLEYWAY -- NIGHT 
Somerset enters the alley, short of breath.  He points his gun in front of him, fearful.  Moving slowly. 
SOMERSET Mills! 
INT.  POLICE HELICOPTER -- NIGHT 
California is enraged, looks towards the pilot. 
CALIFORNIA God damn it!  Let's do something! 
PILOT Somerset said wait! 
CALIFORNIA Fuck that!  Let's go! 
PILOT Where? 
CALIFORNIA I don't know!  Just go! 
INT.  UNDERGROUND WATERWORKS -- NIGHT 
Mills climbs onto a catwalk.  He passes tunnels, looking down each, intense, ready to kill.  A waterfall flows and over the other end of the catwalk. 
Mills stands, looking over the railing at the central pool and other tunnels.  He points his gun and fires into a far tunnel. 
MILLS Come on!  Let's do it!  You and me! 
A figure appears in the center of the waterfall behind Mills. 
MILLS (CONT) I'm not going to let you win this! 
John Doe steps out of the waterfall, putting on his glasses. 
He seems calm, unloads his gun into Mills' back... BLAM, BLAM... 
Mills twists, blown forward by the bullets slamming into his bullet-proof vest.  BLAM, BLAM, BLAM... he stumbles, trying to turn and fire back, but bullets strike him down and he falls to the floor of the catwalk, gun falling from his hand. 
CLICK.  Doe's gun is empty.  The gunshots echo.  Mills lays there on his stomach, pounded, blacking out, the hot bullets in his vest smoking and sizzling from the water splashing them. 
Doe moves quickly, starts searching Mills' pockets. 
EXT.  WAREHOUSE ALLEYWAY -- NIGHT 
Somerset comes upon the open manhole.  Water rushes by. 
SOMERSET Christ. 
INT.  UNDERGROUND WATERWORKS -- NIGHT 
The central pool bubbles, undulating.  Somerset surfaces, inhaling, bringing his gun up.  He looks.  No one in sight. 
SOMERSET Mills!  Pull out! 
His voice reverberates, barely heard against the roaring water. he swims to the edge, climbs out.  He walks, looking... 
SOMERSET (CONT) (pleading) Pull out now! 
Somerset looks up, and freezes up on seeing -- 
-- Doe's handcuffs hang, swinging, on the rail of the catwalk above, with Mills' radio transmitter and wire tied to them. 
EXT.  INDUSTRIAL JUNK-YARD -- NIGHT 
Somerset runs to his car, driven, gasping for breath, still soaking wet.  He stops for one second, looks. 
Not too far away, the police helicopter flies low to the ground, turning in wide circles. 
Somerset climbs into the car, starts it up.  He drives away, leaving his lights off.  The engine protests loudly, forced to its limit.  The car disappears in darkness. 
The police helicopter circles, useless. 
Doe begins twisting the loose end of the rope around the statue. 
JOHN DOE The irony, David, is that you policemen and I want the same things.  But, you are so short sighted.  In this city, where you can see a deadly sin on every street corner... and in every home, we want repentance. 
Mills clutches the glass piece and starts cutting the rope just above his hands. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) We want good over evil.  We want values instilled in the children.  We want a world where a man or woman can lead a decent life. (pause) Wisdom, understanding, counsel, fortitude, knowledge, piety, and fear of the Lord.  Such simple concepts.  Why are they non-existent? 
Somerset manages to life his head, struggles to his knees. 
SOMERSET (weakly) Let him go, God damn you. 
Doe checks to make sure the rope around Saint Emiliani is secure, tightening the knots. 
JOHN DOE There were two men once, who had wonderful gardens.  Two gardens of flowers that went on as far as the eye could see.  Beautiful gardens... the fragrance was inspiration in itself. 
Doe stands behind Emiliani, heaves against the statue. 
Mills watches, gritting his teeth, rubbing the glass against the rope, fingers bleeding. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) But, both gardens were beset by problems.  Weeds started to take root, and there were infestations of insects and diseases.  The gardens started to turn putrid.  And, one man fought to save his garden, because he could never forget how it once was.  Everyday he cut the weeds, and killed the insects. Fought the diseases. 
Doe finally topples the statue, down the altar stairs, and the other end of the rope pulls Mills upwards, screaming in pain. Mills is held, about eight feet in the air, legs dangling. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) That man never had a beautiful garden again. 
MILLS Fuck you! 
JOHN DOE The other man plowed his garden under. (pause) He plowed it under the soil.  He started over. 
Somerset gets to his feet, steadying himself on a pew. 
Doe walks across the altar, picks up a long metal pole with a thick wick and candle snuffer on the end.  He lights the wick from a near candle.  The flame burns long and thin.  He looks down at Somerset, takes out his gun. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) Stay there, Somerset.  Or, I'll kill him right now. 
Doe holds the flaming pole up, near Mills. 
Somerset stops.  He looks up at Mills. 
Mills is straining.  He nods to Somerset, and Somerset sees Mills cutting at the rope. 
SOMERSET Alright... you don't have to do this, John.  You've already made your point. 
JOHN DOE Do you think I chose this?  Can you even begin to understand how painful my existence has been?  It's like... like having every sense heightened beyond comprehension. 
Doe lowers the flame, standing below and beside Mills, with his attention focused on Somerset. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) So that the stench of the street coats your throat like bile.  So, sugar is so sweet it... it makes your bones ache to the marrow. 
SOMERSET You're insane.  That's why. 
JOHN DOE (seething) No!  You're wrong! 
Mills continues cutting, bleeding, almost through the rope.  He begins to swing his feet slightly, his body swaying. 
JOHN DOE (CONT) I was chosen.  And I've wished a thousand times I could have been a normal man.  Like David Mills, a common man... with a common life.  But, wishing that is my sin.  I can't have it and I shouldn't. 
Doe steps towards Mills. 
SOMERSET Don't do this! 
JOHN DOE I meant what I said.  I admire David Mills.  I envy David Mills. (pause) Envy is my sin. 
SOMERSET No! 
Just as Doe is to put the flame to Mills, the rope is finally cut through.  Mills drops, swinging his legs forward, smashing Doe in the face, knocking Doe's glasses off. 
Mills hits the floor with a thud. 
Somerset runs forward. 
SOMERSET (CONT) David, get out! 
Doe has fallen back, dropping the metal pole.  Mills scrambles to his feet and charges at Doe, shouting. 
Doe squints, screaming, raises his gun.  Fires twice! 
The bullets catch Mills in mid-run, and carry him off his feet, backwards. 
Somerset grips his own gun, just as Mills' body falls, tumbles off the altar area and down the stairs in front of him. 
SOMERSET (CONT) No! 
Somerset lets out a scream of pain and rage that chokes in his throat.  He falls to his knees and halts Mills' body. 
Somerset's shaking, unable to breathe, turning Mills over and cradling his head in his arms.  Tears come to his eyes. 
SOMERSET (CONT) David... David?  Please... 
On the altar, Doe throws his gun away.  he starts feeling around him, unsteady, looking for his glasses. 
Mills' eyes are closed.  He is still, bloody.  He swallows. 
With one gasp, without a word, he is dead. 
Somerset looks up at Doe, vision blurred by rage and tears. 
Doe stands, putting on his glasses, faces Somerset. 
Somerset lays Mills' body down.  Stands, walks up towards the altar, raises his gun. 
SOMERSET (CONT) You. 
Doe stands, quaking, teeth clenched, fists balled up.  He waits for the bullets, falls to his knees. 
The gun trembles in Somerset's hand as Somerset brings the barrel to Doe's face.  A millisecond's pause.  Somerset changes the angle of fire.  BLAM, he blows John Doe's arm to pieces in a splattering explosion. 
