SERENITY 
Written by 
Joss Whedon 
April 18, 2004 
EXT. CLASSROOM - DAY 
It's a group of twelve-year-olds, serious and well dressed. They sit on their heels under a sparsely elegant tent, small wooden desks with embedded screens in front of them. The tent is on a lawn surrounded by lush foliage. People walk about and vehicles glide quietly overhead. A utopian vista. 
GIRL Now that the war's over, our soldiers get to come home, yes? 
TEACHER Some of them. Some will be stationed on the rim planets as Peace Enforcers. 
BOY I don't understand. Why were the Independents even fighting us? Why wouldn't they look to be more civilized? 
TEACHER That's a good question. Does anybody want to open on that? 
GIRL I hear they're cannibals. 
ANOTHER BOY That's only Reavers. 
ANOTHER GIRL Reavers aren't real. 
ANOTHER BOY Full well they are. They attack settlers from space, they kill them and wear their skins and rape them for hours and hours -- 
TEACHER (in Chinese) 
(CALMER) It's true that there are... dangers on the outer planets. So let's follow up on Borodin's question. With all the social and medical advancements we can bring to the Independents, why would they fight so hard against us? 
RIVER We meddle. 
TEACHER River? RIVER is a dark, intense little girl, writing with one hand and "typing" with the other. (Typing consists of holding a long wooden stylus and tapping either end down different columns of chinese characters on her desktop screen.) She is a good two years younger than the other kids. 
RIVER People don't like to be meddled with. We tell them what to do, what to think, don't run don't walk we're in their homes and in their heads and we haven't the right. We're meddlesome. 
TEACHER (gently taking her 
STYLUS) River, we're not telling people what to think. We're just trying to show them how. She violently PLUNGES the stylus into the girl's forehead 
INT. LAB - NIGHT 
And we FLASH CUT to the actual present: a 16 year old RIVER sitting in a metal chair, needles stuck in her skull (one right where the teacher had stuck her) being adjusted by a technician. A second monitors her brain patterns. The lab is cold, blue, steel. Insidiously clean. 
2ND TECHNICIAN She's dreaming. 
FIRST TECHNICIAN Nightmare? 
2ND TECHNICIAN Off the charts. Scary monsters. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Let's amp it up. Delcium, eight- drop. DOCTOR MATHIAS is not instantly likable -- nor gradually, for that matter. A cold man, and more than a little satisfied with himself. 
Behind him stands a GOVERNMENT INSPECTOR, observing. And making him a little nervous. The Inspector is in shadow, but his uniform indicates -- no substantial rank, as does the eagle-crested baton longer than a ruler -- that he clutches in one gloved hand. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS 
(CONTINUING) See, most of our best work is done when they're asleep. We can monitor and direct their subconscious, implant suggestions... River starts convulsing, mewing in misery. The Inspector starts forward, slowly. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS 
(CONTINUING) It's a little startling to see, but the results are spectacular. Especially in this case. River Tam is our star pupil. The Inspector steps into the light. He is rigid, cold, staring at the girl with no emotion at all. His name, as we will very soon learn, is SIMON. 
SIMON I've heard that. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS She's a genius. Her mental capacity is extraordinary, even with the side-effects. 
SIMON Tell me about them. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Well, obviously, she's unstable... the neural stripping gives them heightened cognitive reception, but it also destabilizes their own reality matrix. It manifests as borderline schizophrenia... which at this point is the price for being truly psychic. 
SIMON (moves toward her) What use do we have for a psychic if she's insane? 
J 
(CONTINUING) Remarkable children. Doctor Mathias storms in, two security men (not the ones from the opening) and a nervous young female intern following. Mathias looks greyer and more gaunt than when we saw him last. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Excuse me! No one is allowed in the records room without my express permission. 
THE OPERATIVE (over this, quietly) Enter the doctor. (to Mathias) Forgive me. I prefer to see the event alone, without bias. Mathias looks at the hologram -- realizes which one it is. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS I need to see your clearance. 
THE OPERATIVE You're right to insist. I know you've had security issues here. He places his hand on a screen as he says it. Mathias looks at the readout, and drops the bluster. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Apologies. An Operative of the Parliament will of course have full cooperation. (looks at screen) I'm not sure what... I see no listing of rank, or name. 
THE OPERATIVE I have neither. Like this facility, I don't exist. The Parliament calls me in when... when they wish they didn't have to. Let's talk about the Tams. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS I assume you've scanned the status logs... 
VJ 
THE OPERATIVE River was your greatest success. A prodigy -- A phenomenon. Until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS It's not quite so simple. 
THE OPERATIVE I'm very aware of that. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS He came in with full creds. He beat the ap-scan, the retinal... There was no way I could -- 
THE OPERATIVE No, no. Of course. The boy spent his fortune developing the contacts to infiltrate this place. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Gave up a brilliant future in. medicine as well, you've probably read. Turned his back on his whole life. Madness. 
THE OPERATIVE Madness, no. Something a good deal more dangerous. Have you looked at this scan carefully? At his face? Mathias looks uncertain. 
THE OPERATIVE 
(CONTINUING) It's love, in point of fact. He loved his sister and he knew she was in pain. So he took her somewhere safe. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Why are you here? 
THE OPERATIVE I'm here because the situation is even less simple than you think. (eyeing him) Do you know what your sin is, Doctor? 
J 
DOCTOR MATHIAS I. I would be very careful about what you -- 
THE OPERATIVE 
(SADLY) It's pride. He touches the computer screen and the hologramic image jumps to the Doctor and Simon in the lab, Mathias repeating: 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Key members of Parliament have personally observed this subject. I was told their support -- 
THE OPERATIVE (shutting it off) Key members of Parliament. Key. The minds behind every diplomatic, military and covert operation in the galaxy, and you put them in a room with a psychic. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS She was... she read cards, nothing more. 
THE OPERATIVE It's come to our attention that River became much more unstable, more... disturbed, after you showed her off to Parliament. Did she see something very terrible in those cards? 
DOCTOR MATHIAS Whatever... secrets she might have accidentally gleaned... it's probable she doesn't even know she knows them. That they're buried beneath -- 
THE OPERATIVE But they are in her. Her mind is unquiet. It's the will of the Parliament that I kill her. And the brother. Because of your sin. 
J 
THE OPERATIVE (continuing; moving to his briefcase) You know, in certain older civilized cultures, when men failed as entirely as you have, they would throw themselves on their swords. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS (fed up) Well, unfortunately I forgot to bring a sword to -- The air rings crisply as the Operative pulls out his sword. 
THE OPERATIVE The Parliament has no further interest in psychics. They represent a threat to the harmony and stability of our Alliance. 
DOCTOR MATHIAS I would put that down right now if I were you. 
THE OPERATIVE Would you be killed in your sleep, like an ailing pet? Whatever your failings, I believe you deserve better than that. The agents move. He slices the throat of the one behind him with true grace, thrusting at the second as he's pulling out his gun and pinning his hand. A moment, and the dying agent reflexively squeezes the trigger, shooting his own arm. The Operative pulls out the sword and the agent falls as quietly as the first. Mathias bolts but the Operative pins him to the wall. He bunches his fingers and jabs the side of the Doctor's spine. Mathias stiffens, suddenly, agonizingly immobile. The Operative steps back, observes the Doctor's rigid grimace for a moment. Almost ceremoniously, he drops to one knee and holds the blade out to one side, hilt to the floor and point tilted toward the doctor. The Doctor stares at it in horror as his paralyzed body begins to tip over toward it. The Operative turns toward the terrified intern at the door. 
V0 
THE OPERATIVE 
JAYNE Well, what you plan and what takes place ain't ever exactly been similar. 
MAL No grenades. (Jayne groans) No grenades. First Mate ZOE enters from the lower level. Her mode of dress and military deference mark her as a war buddy of Mal's. 
ZOE Are we crashing again? 
MAL Talk to your husband. Is the mule prepped? 
ZOE Good to go, sir. Just loading her up. (to Jayne) Are those grenades? 
JAYNE Cap'n doesn't want 'em. 
J 
ZOE We're robbing the place. We're not occupying it. All that plays in the background as we lead Mal into the: 
INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUING 
It's the communal space of the ship, homey and messy. There is food left lying on the table. Mal swipes a dumpling from a plate, pops it in his mouth as another jolt rocks him and sends most of the tableware clattering to the floor. 
MAL (calling out) Kaylee! He enters: 
INT. AFT HALL/ENGINE ROOM - CONTINUING 
MAL (still calling) Kaylee, what in the sphincter of hell are you playing at? The hall leads to the rust-brown chaos that is the engine room. Working around the engine in a forest of wires, sparks and smoke is the sweetly pretty mechanic, KAYLEE. She passes Mal with a slightly impatient smile as he stands in the doorway, raising his voice above the din. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) We got the Primary Buffer 
KAYLEE Everything's shiny, Cap'n. Not to fret. 
MAL You told me -- 
(JOLT) You told me the entry couplings would hold for another week! 
KAYLEE 
(WORKING) That was six months ago, cap'n. 
MAL My ship don't crash. If she crashes, you crashed her. 
Steam and electricity shoot at him, backing him up. He turns to see Simon behind him. Simon is more seasoned than before, but still contrasts the Captain entirely in dress and manner. He is implacably proper. Also pissed. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Doctor. Guess I need to get innocked 'fore we hit planetside. Simon nods, the ship jolting again. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Bit of a rockety ride. Nothing to worry about. 
SIMON I'm not worried. 
MAL Fear is nothing to be ashamed of, Doc. 
SIMON This isn't fear. This is anger. 
MAL 
4 (LAUGHS) Well, it's kinda hard to tell the one from t'other, face like yours. 
SIMON I imagine if it were fear, my eyes would be wider. 
MAL I'll look for that next time. 
SIMON You're not taking her. 
MAL (brushing past him) No no, that's not a thing I'm interested in talking over with -- 
SIMON She's not going with you. That's final. 
MAL (turning back) I hear the words "that's final" come out of your mouth ever again, they truly will be. (turning away again) This is my boat. Y'all are guests on it. He heads down a side corridor that has steps leading down to: 
INT. PASSENGER DORM - CONTINUING 
MAL Get in the vault with the others -- 
YOUNG MAN I can't stay here! Please! 
MAL It's too many. Drive, Zoe. A Reaver craft ROARS over their heads. It's nearly the size of Serenity. Torn apart, belching smoke -- a welded conglomeration of ruined ships, painted for war. Predator, pure. It disappears over the rooftops. 
YOUNG MAN 
PLEASE! 
MAL Drive! Zoe's face is set with unhappy determination as she floors it, shooting out and leaving the young man in the dust. As they move from him, four Reavers jump out of the shadows and grab the young man. Mal unhesitatingly draws his gun. He nudges a lever with his thumb and a cartridge pops back. Mal fires twice. The young man takes both bullets in the chest, slumps down dead. 
ANGLE: THE EDGE OF TOWN As the mule shoots past the last building, we see a skiff shoot out from behind the buildings of the adjacent street, right abreast of our gang. 
ANGLE: THE CENTER OF TOWN We see the church as the first ship and an even larger one come to hover over it, Reavers dropping down on cable lines to swarm into it. 
EXT. DESERT - CONTINUING 
The mule and the skiff are booking through the rocky terrain. The skiff swings closer, but Jayne peppers it with automatic fire and it swings away. There is sporadic return fire. 
JAYNE How come they ain't blowing us out of the air? 
MAL They wanna run us down. The up- close kill. River is squashed down on her back, being very small. 
RIVER They want us alive when they eat us. 
JAYNE Boy, sure would be nice if we had some grenades, don'tchya think? Mal says nothing, keeps firing. 
ZOE Wash, baby can you hear me? 
VO 
INT. SERENITY: BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
Wash is in a frenzy of switchflipping, prepping for take-off. 
WASH We're moments from air. You got somebody behind you? We intercut Wash and Zoe at this point: 
EXT. DESERT - CONTINUING 
ZOE Reavers. 
WASH 
(BLANCHING) 
ZOE We're not gonna reach you in time. 
WASH Just keep moving, honey. We're coming to you. 
EXT. SERENITY - CONTINUING 
As she lifts off and starts heading toward the others. 
EXT. DESERT - CONTINUING 
Zoe gets the mule in front but a harpoon thwinngs through the air from the skiff and S} NK! Goes through Jayne's leg.. The harpoon grips the leg and pulls -- Jayne goes flying off the back of the Mule, Mal just grabbing him as the harpoon line reels slowly tighter -- 
MAL Grab on! Jayne grabs the Mule, legs dangling, pulled out between the two vessels as Mal slams a new cartridge into his pistol. 
JAYNE I won't get et! You shoot me if they take me! Mal steadies himself and takes aim, seemingly at Jayne -- 
JAYNE 
(CONTINUING) Well don't shoot me first! 
J 
Mal fires. Again. Steadies himself for one more... The line holding the harpoon is split by Mal's third shot. 
V0V The mule surges forward as Jayne drags on the ground. Mal hauls him in as River bounds into the front to make room. 
JAYNE 
(CONTINUING) Rutting pigs! Where's -- And River is holding out his weapon before he can ask for it. 
J 
MAL Seems I remember a talk about you giving orders on my boat. 
SIMON Well sleep easy 'cause we're off your boat. Just as soon as River gets her share of the "bounty". 
KAYLEE Well let's not do anything hasty... 
MAL No, shiny! I'm sick a' carrying tourists anyhow. We'll be on Beaumonde in ten hours time, you can pick up your earnings and be on your merry. Meantime you do your job. Patch up my crew. A beat. 
RIVER He didn't lie down. They never lie down. She is looking at the Reaver. Everyone does, for a moment. 
INT. FOREDECK HALL - MOMENTS LATER 
Mal and Zoe enter from below. 
ZOE No, I think things'll glide a deal smoother for us without River and Simon on board... but how long do you think they'll last? 
MAL Doc made his call. They's as babes in a basket when we took 'em in; we sheltered 'em plenty. Man has to cut loose, learn to stand on his own. 
ZOE Like that man back in town? They stop by Mal Is room. 
MAL I had to shoot him. What the Reavers woulda done to him before they killed him... 
J 
ZOE I know. That was a piece a' mercy. But before that, him begging us to bring him along... vo, 
MAL We couldn't take the weight. Woulda slowed us down. 
ZOE You know that for certain 
MAL Mule won't run with five. I shoulda dumped the girl? Or you? Or Jayne? 
(CONSIDERING) Well, Jayne... 
ZOE Coulda tossed the payload. 
MAL And go to Fanty and Mingo with air in our mitts, tell 'em "here's your share"? They'd set the dogs on us in the space of a twitch, and there we are back in mortal peril. We get a job, we gotta vo make good. Washenters from the bridge. 
ZOE Sir, I don't disagree on any particular point, it's just... in the time of war, we woulda never left a man stranded. 
MAL Maybe that's why we lost. She's not happy with the reply. Mal climbs down to his room as Wash reaches Zoe, slides his arms around her. 
INT. MAL'S ROOM - CONTINUING 
Once alone, Mal lets his own disappointment show. He pulls off his holster and drops it over a chair. Kicks the toilet closed and sits on his bunk. The place resembles a submarine cabin, with charts and clutter, ancient maps on the walls. 
J 
Mal moves a bunch of papers off his bunk and a picture slides out. Hits the floor and starts moving: it's a snapshot-movie 
OF: 
VW - DAY 
INT. INARA'S SHUTTLE 
We're close on a beautiful woman who looks at us with amused exasperation. Behind her is an opulently dressed little shuttle. 
INARA Kaylee, are you ever gonna put that capture down? 
KAYLEE (0.5.) We gotta have records of everything. A bona fide Companion entertained clients on this very ship! In this very bed! The picture pans over to the bed -- which River is bending over and sniffing curiously. Inara is packing things up. 
KAYLEE (O.S.) 
(CONTINUING) For one sweet second, we was almost classy. 
INARA 4 You promised to help me pack. 
KAYLEE (O.S.) Honest, Inara, why do you have to leave? Inara shoots an uncertain look at the camera -- and the picture freezes, goes back to the beginning. During all this, Mal has picked it up. He looks at it a moment, tosses it aside. Looks around at nothing much. 
JAYNE (V.0.) I do not get it. How's a guy get so wrong? 
INT. CARGO BAY - LATER 
(BRIDLING) I left because -- go away. We're no longer friends. You're a stranger to me now. 
SHEYDRA 104 I do love to watch you boil. Don't worry. The stories will fade. And your Captain Reynolds has probably gotten himself blown up by this time. 
INARA (looking away again) Yes. That would be just like him. 
EXT. BEAUMONDE: ATOLL PLAZA - EVENING 
Serenity touches down on the crowded atoll amidst a number of other, equally disreputable ships. The place is filled with every kind of immigrant culture and shop imaginable. 
EXT./INT. SERENITY - EVENING 
The ramp is open and everyone is filing out, ready to hit the town. Kaylee is talking to Simon, who has River in hand. 
KAYLEE Don't talk to the barkers -- only the captains. 
(MORE) 
KAYLEE (cont'd) You look the captain in the eye, know who you're dealing with. 
40 SIMON • I wish there was... Since he doesn't know what to say, she rattles on: 
KAYLEE You shouldn't aughta be so clean. It's a dead giveaway you don't belong, you always gotta be tidy. Don't pay anybody in advance. And don't ride in anything with a Capissen 38 engine, they fall right out of the sky. 
SIMON Kaylee. She turns and heads off. Simon starts in the other direction, but River looks after her and the others. 
SIMON 
(CONTINUING) River... do you want to stay with them? 
4 RIVER It's not safe. 
SIMON No, I fear it's not safe anymore. He's heading off and doesn't hear: 
RIVER For them. 
INT. THE MAIDENHEAD - CONTINUING 
We start on a CorVue screen, showing a news report. On the screen is a shot of the town our gang robbed, now half of it a smoking ruin. 
NEWSPERSON (V.O.) that it was a band of Reavers remains unconfirmed. The only survivors of the massacre apparently locked themselves in the Trade Station vault until -- 
During this we come around to see that the screen has a blinking light behind it, come THROUGH the wiring of the back to look out at the bar, with the word "recording" in the corner. Every screen is a camera, even down here. 
We pick up Mal and Kaylee heading down into the bar. Cutting away from the camera's view, we can looks two stories straight down as they go, to a close group of dark tables and booths and a second screen playing in the corner. 
MAL It's not my fault the Doc's got no stomach for Rim living -- 
KAYLEE It is entirely and for all your fault! If you'd given Simon a moment, just a moment where he didn't think you were gonna throw them off or turn them in, he might've -- 
MAL What? Swept you into his cleanly arms? Made tidy love to you? They have reached the guncheck, where Jayne and Wash have already checked their guns. It works like a lunch automat: Mal sticks his gun in a drawer, pulls out a chit -- the q0 drawer closes and rotates, revealing another empty one. A large bouncer with a shockrod watches impassively. 
KAYLEE (as they continue 
DOWN) Don't you dare joke! You know how much I pined on Simon. And him fair sweet on me, I well believe, but he's so worried about being found out -- 
ZOE Captain didn't make 'em fugitives. 
KAYLEE But he coulda made 'em family! Steada driving them off. Steada keeping Simon from seein' I was there, when I carried such a torch and we coulda -- goin' on a year now I ain't had nothin' twixt my nethers weren't run on batteries! 
MAL Oh god! I can't know that! 
JAYNE 40 I could stand to hear a little more... 
KAYLEE If you had a care for anybody's heart you woulda -- 
MAL 
(ENOUGH) You knew he was gonna leave. We never been but a way station to those two. And how do you know what he feels? He's got River to worry on but he still coulda shown you... if I truly wanted someone bad enough, wouldn't be a thing in the 'verse could stop me from going to her. 
KAYLEE Tell that to Inara. For a moment, Mal is too shocked to react. Kaylee storms out. 
MINGO 4 Domestic troubles? MINGO is young, tough -- somewhere between a gangster and a fur-trader. Sounds lower-class British, or something like it. 
FANTY Domestic troubles? FANTY moves out from behind Mingo to reveal that he is Mingo's identical twin. Apart from slight differences in dress, they are indistinguishable. 
JAYNE 
(CONTINUING) Gorrammit, girl, it's me! She grabs his crotch and squeezes -- his grip loosens and she spins, facing him, and flat-heels his nose with her palm, V0 twirling into a gut kick that doubles him over, dispatching of another while she cracks Jayne's head with a small table -- Somebody pulls a gun and she snaps his elbow, causing him to scream out even before he shoots himself in the gut -- Mal frantically wrests a gun from the vending locker as River knocks the other guy's gun in the air, kicks someone else and then catches it, whips it around just as Mal comes up with his, they are pointed right at each other -- 
SIMON Eta Kooram Nah Smech! And River drops to the ground, fast asleep. There is a beat. Mal looks around the bar. He and Simon, who has run up to the entrance, are the only ones standing. He looks down at River. She lies unconscious, helpless. 
MAL I think maybe we ought to leave. 
EXT. SPACE - NIGHT 
We see two sleek warships glide silently into frame, followed by a third, bigger ship. This is the operative's vessel, and 10 it is everything Serenity is not: sleek, predatory, icy cool. 
INT. THE OPERATIVE'S SHIP - BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
The operative is looking at the Maidenhead security feed -- and River is staring right at him. 
THE OPERATIVE 
(CAPTIVATED) Hello again. Yes, it's me. I'm glad you've finally asked for me. An Ensign is revealed looking at a separate monitor: 
ENSIGN We got a pos on a retinal -- man carrying her out is Malcolm Reynolds, captains a Firefly-class transport ship, "Serenity". Bound by law five times, smuggling, tariff dodge... not convicted. Nothing here that would -- 
THE OPERATIVE The ship. The name of the ship. 
10 (SOFTLY) Crossref. Malcolm Reynolds. Serenity. He looks over at the Ensign with a small, strange smile on his lips -- as his glasses are covered by text. 
ENSIGN Sir? 
THE OPERATIVE Serenity Valley. Bloodiest battle of the entire war. The Independents held the valley for seven weeks, two of them after their high command had surrendered. 68% casualty rate. 
ENSIGN Of course, Sir, I just didn't -- 
THE OPERATIVE There. 
His glasses stop scrolling and Mal's military file opens, a picture of Mal in one lens. 
THE OPERATIVE 
140 (CONTINUING) If the feds ever bothered to crossref justice files with war records... Yes. Our Mr. Reynolds was a sergeant, 57th Overlanders. Volunteer. Fought at Serenity till the very last. This man is an issue. This man hates us. 
ENSIGN First Mate Zoe Washburn, formerly Corporal Zoe Alleyne, also in the 57th. Career army, looks like. 
THE OPERATIVE She's followed him far... Give me the crew, registered passengers -- Our Captain is a passionate man, no room there for subtlety. He's bound to have some very obvious... CLOSE ON: THE LENS of his glasses. On it is a slowly moving picture of INARA. 
THE OPERATIVE -40 (continuing) .weakness... 
INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT 
River is still asleep, Mal finishing chaining her wrists. She lies on her side, breathing evenly. Mal stares at her a moment, then: 
INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUING 
He exits to find the whole group waiting for him, sans Wash. 
SIMON May I see her? 
MAL She's still napping just now. And I believe you've got some storytelling to do. 
WASH 
(ENTERING) We're out of atmo, plotted for Haven. No one following as of yet. 
KAYLEE Haven? We're gonna see Shepherd Book? 
MAL 
(NODDING) We got to lay low. And I could fair use some spiritual guidance right about now. (to Simon) I am a lost lamb; what in hell happened back there? 
WASH Start with the part where Jayne gets knocked out by a ninety pound girl. 'Cause I don't think that's ever getting old. 
ZOE Do we know if anyone was killed? 
MAL It's likely. I know she meant to Ad kill me 'fore the Doc put her to sleep, which how exactly does that work anyhow? 
SIMON Safeword. 
INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
A0 As he watches the security feed of River's fight his image becomes a vidscreen. He's addressing Wash, Mal and Zoe. We intercut between the two spaces: 
MR UNIVERSE Oh, this is good. This is... 
(GIGGLES) .she's beating up all the burly men and I'm having a catharsis, it's happening right now, you guys always bring me the very best violence. You think you're in a hot place? 
WASH That's what we're looking to learn. Is there any follow up, a newswave... 
MR UNIVERSE There is no "news", there's the truth of the signal, what I see, and there's the puppet theatre the V0 Parliament's jesters foist on the somnambulant public. Monkey taught to say the word "monkey" -- lead story on 32 planets. But the slum riots on Hera, not a -- 
MAL What about this? Did this make the... puppet theatre? 
MR UNIVERSE No sir. And no lawforce flags, either -- I hadda go into the security feed direct... 
MAL You can do that? 
MR UNIVERSE Can't stop the signal, Mal. Everything goes somewhere and I go everywhere. Security feeds are a traipse to access -- and I wasn't the first one in, this has prints on it -- oh! Look at her go! A0 Everyone is getting bruises and contusions. Contoooosions. 
ZOE (to Mal, over that) So somebody else has been fed this. That doesn't like me too well. 
MR UNIVERSE Zoe, you sultry minx, stop falling in love with me. You're just gonna embarrass yourself. I have a commitment to my Lovebot, it was a very beautiful ceremony, Lenore wrote her own vows, I cried like a baby, a hungry, angry baby. (re: screen) And she falls asleep. Which, she would be sleepy. 
J 
MAL Can you go back? See if anybody spoke with her 'fore she acted up, -40 made any kind of contact with her... Mr Universe works the screen. The image rewinds and stops on River coming up to it, looking at it. She whispers the word, "Miranda", and starts to move away. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Miranda...? Go back further. 
MR UNIVERSE No.. He pulls another screen close, starts working that one. Matching timecodes, he pulls up the commercial. 
MAL Um... please? Mr Universe has a third screen showing the commercial as 
(NON-MATRIXY) well -- and it starts breaking down, bursts of code showing through. As he does so: 
MR UNIVERSE Friends and potential lovers, I 
4DO have good news and I have the other kind. Good is you're very smart. Someone is talking to her. 
WASH The oaty bar? 
MAL Subliminal. It's a subliminal message broadwaved to trigger her. 
MR UNIVERSE 
(NODDING) I been seeing this code pop up all over, last few weeks. And I cannot crack it. It's Alliance and it's high military, so here then is the bad. Someone has gone to enormous trouble to find your little friend. And found her they have. Mal, Zoe and Wash look at each other. 
MR UNIVERSE 
(CONTINUING) Do you all know what it is you're carrying? 
W 
INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT 
River stares at us, impassive, as the camera pulls away from her to reveal Simon, who is cleaning blood off her face. 
RIVER They're afraid of me. 
SIMON I'm sorry... 
RIVER They should be. What I will show them... Oh God... She starts tearing up, breathing faster... Simon runs his hands through her hair. 
SIMON It's okay, it's okay... 
RIVER (somewhere else) Show me off like a dog, old men covered in blood, it never touched them but they're drowning in it... so much loss... I don't know what I'm saying. I never know what I'm saying... 
SIMON You said something. When you were triggered, do you remember? The Captain saw you say something on the feed... 
RIVER Miranda. 
SIMON Miranda. 
MAL Weren't River that did it, you know that. Somebody decided her brain was just another piece of property to take, fenced it right Vd up. 
BOOK You got a plan? 
MAL Hiding ain't a plan? 
BOOK It'll do you for a spell, and the folks here'll be glad of the extra coin... 
MAL .but they'll be coming. Alliance is after this girl with a powerful will. I look to hear the tromp of their boots any moment. 
V0 
BOOK You won't. (off Mal's look) This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants... much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known. 
MAL I coulda left her there. 
INT. STORAGE LOCKER - NIGHT 
As he continues, we see an image of him watching over the sleeping girl, his mind, racing. 
MAL (O.S.) I had an out -- hell, I had every reason in the 'verse to leave her lay and haul anchor. 
EXT. MINING CAMP - CONTINUING 
BOOK Not your way, Mal. 
V0 MAL I have a way? 
(THINKS) Is that better than a plan? 
BOOK You can play the thug all you want, but there's more to you than you're ever like to 'fess. 
MAL You just think that 'cause my eyes is all sorrowful and pretty. 
BOOK Only one thing is gonna walk you through this, Mal. Belief. 
MAL Sermons make me sleepy, Shepherd. I ain't looking for help from on high. That's a long wait for a train don't come. 
BOOK When I talk about belief, why do you always assume I'm talking about God? W (Mal has no response) They'll come at you sideways. As he continues, we see: 
EXT. COMPANION TRAINING HOUSE - DAY 
Inara stands waiting, her back to us, in front of the very vista we first saw her before. The operative comes slowly up the staircase, stands before her. 
BOOK W. (V.0.) It's how they think: sideways. It's how they move. Sidle up and smile, hit you where you're weak. 
EXT. MINING CAMP - CONTINUING 
BOOK Sorta man they're like to send believes hard. Kills and never asks why. 
MAL It's of interest to me how much you seem to know about that world. 
BOOK I wasn't born a Shepherd, Mal. 
MAL Have to tell me about that some time. 
BOOK (looking out) No I don't. He walks away, offering this: 
BOOK 
(CONTINUING) Sideways. Mal watches him go, thinking. 
EXT. CLASSROOM - DAY 
The Teacher from the very beginning is standing in front of River, whose desktop screen depicts a single, dark planet. 
TEACHER River? Eight-year-old River is working away, not paying attention. 
TEACHER 
(CONTINUING) River, you look tired. I think everybody's a little tired by now; why don't we all lie down. River looks up, scared. All the other children wordlessly get up from their seats and lie on the floor next to them. 
TEACHER 
(CONTINUING) A little peace and quiet will make everything better. She starts to lie down herself, right on the grass. 
MAL I didn't look through the... stuff... just sundries I expect. 
Inara smiles blandly, nods. An awkward beat. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Well, it's kind of late where I'm at. I'll send a wave as soon as I can. 
INARA Thank you. She disappears. Mal thinks a moment. 
INT. BRIDGE - MOMENTS LATER 
Mal comes up in, buttoning his shirt. 
WASH Inara. Nice to see her again. 
ZOE So, trap? 
MAL Trap. 
ZOE We goin' in? moo MAL It ain't but a few hours out... 
WASH Yeah, but, remember the part where it's a trap? 
MAL If that's the case, then Inara's already caught in it. She wouldn't set us up willing. Might be we got a shot at seeing who's turning these wheels. We go in. 
KAYLEE How can you be sure Inara don't just wanna see you? Sometimes people have feelings -- I'm referring here to people... 
MAL Y'all were watching, I take it. Guilty glances. 
KAYLEE Yes. 
MAL 140 You see us fight? 
KAYLEE No. 
MAL Trap. 
EXT. SERENITY - DAY 
The ship moves gracefully over the mountains. 
INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
WASH We're about seventy miles from the Training house. And nobody on radar... if the Alliance is about, they're laying low. 
MAL They're about. Find us a home. I'll take the shuttle in closer. Zoe, ship is yours. 4dO He starts out, turns back to Zoe. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Remember: if anything happens to me, or you don't hear from me within the hour... you take this ship and you come and rescue me. 
ZOE What? And risk my ship? 
MAL 
(EXITING) I mean it. It's cold out there. I don't wanna get left. 
EXT. SERENITY - DAY 
She is nestled in a gorge, overhanging rocks all but burying her from view. The shuttle on the right lifts off from the side of the ship and glides off, keeping low. 
EXT. COMPANION TRAINING HOUSE - DAY 
A line of young trainees files by in robes and red shawls pulled over their heads -- one trainee a good deal larger than the others. 
INT. INARA'S ROOM - LATER 
She is kneeling in front of a statue of Buddha, lighting a few incense sticks. The room is sparsely lush -- not as opulent as the shuttle where she entertained men, but still beautifully furnished and draped. A lace curtain hangs in front of the light, casting its pattern in shadow over everything. Including the rather large figure in a red shawl who kneels beside Inara. 
MAL Dear Buddha, please send me a pony, and a plastic rocket, and -- 
I NAR.A Mal! What are you doing here? 
MAL You invited me. 
THE OPERATIVE Captain Reynolds, I should tell you so that you don't waste your time: You can't make me angry. 
INARA Oh please. Spend an hour with him. Mal smiles -- then glares at Inara, mouthing "Hey!" 
THE OPERATIVE I need her, Captain. River is... my purpose and I will gather her to me. The brother as well. Whatever else happens is incidental. In the greater scheme. 
MAL Why is it that the greater scheme always makes everything not that great? 
THE OPERATIVE I want to resolve this like civilized men. I'm not threatening you. I'm unarmed. 
MAL Great! He draws and shoots the Operative in the chest. The Operative goes down as Mal grabs Inara, moves for the-doorway. The Operative is on him in a second, choke-hold from behind. 
THE OPERATIVE I am of course wearing full body armor. I'm not a moron. He tosses Mal hard against a wall, spinning and blocking a blow from Inara -- she is clearly trained in martial arts, but he flat-heels her to the ground within seconds. Mal is going for his gun again, turning, and the Operative kicks him in the face, sends him back, gun flying. Mal gets to his feet and they square off. Mal breathing hard, nose dripping blood. The Operative perfectly poised, waiting. 
MAL No back up? We're making an awful ruckus... 
THE OPERATIVE They'll come when they're needed. 
MAL I'd start whistling. 
THE OPERATIVE Captain, what do you think is going to happen here? They come at each other. The Operative is the much better trained -- he's fluid, his blows sparse and deadly. 
Mal is more bluster and determination, and the operative's precision is wearing Mal down. Mal punches wild -- the Operative counters with a spin-kick V0 to the head that sends Mal to the ground not far from Inara, breathing hard. He tries to rise again, painfully, but Inara places her hand on his arm. The Operative goes to his briefcase by the door, pulls out his sword. His face has taken on that remote kind of fascination as he looks at it. 
THE OPERATIVE 
(CONTINUING) Nothing here is what it seems. 
INARA I know. 
THE OPERATIVE He's not the plucky hero. The Alliance isn't some evil empire. This isn't the grand arena. 
INARA And that's not incense. He turns to look: the incense stick burns away -- rather like a fuse -- and FLASHES in an explosion of light and sound. 
It's a flash-bomb: The Operative sails back as everything goes smoky white and the sound dies to a tiny buzz. The Operative tries to get his bearings -- and four armored soldiers are in his face, asking him for orders... Mal and Inara are gone. He motions for the men to follow them. 
THE OPERATIVE Just a flash bomb. Go! Go! 
INT. COMPANION TRAINING HOUSE - CONTINUING 
Inara leads Mal (who is reholstering his gun) down some steps and along a corridor. The sound is still tinny and weird. 
MAL .I had him... 
INARA What? 
MAL (deafly loud) I think that I was winning! 
EXT. SIDE OF MOUNTAIN, BY MAL'S SHUTTLE - DAY 
Mal and Inara move quickly down the mountain. They look to see that Mal's shuttle has four Alliance guards waiting by V0 it. Mal ducks back out of sight, pulls a fancy-looking grenade out of his pocket. Pops the top and hurls it over at the foursome. CLOSE ON: THE GRENADE, as a series of bars of light go out one by one, counting down -- 
ALLIANCE SOLDIER Grenade! Everybody dives for cover. The moment they do, Mal and Inara race into the shuttle, Mal sweeping up the grenade just as the last light goes out and nothing happens. One soldier turns to look and Mal shoots him back down as the door shuts on him and Inara. 
INT. SHUTTLE - CONTINUING 
Inara pushes into the pilot's seat. 
INARA Hang on to something. 
MAL 4 You sure you remember how it -- He nearly falls over as: 
EXT. MOUNTAIN RANGE - CONTINUING 
The shuttle shoots straight up, spinning and heading out. 
INT. SHUTTLE - CONTINUING 
Inara stares straight ahead, relaxing her grip on the controls. Mal is gone. 
INARA I told you to hang on. 
MAL (O.S. ) (in great pain) I'm fine... 
EXT. SPACE - LATER 
ZOE Maybe a hundred ships. And more every year. You go through that you're signing up to be a banquet. 
WASH I'm on board with the run and hide scenario -- and we are just about... He looks at his monitors, looks ahead... 
WASH 
(CONTINUING) 
WAIT 
EXT. MINING CAMP - DAY 
The ship swings around a mountain to come into view of the camp. I s 
It is a world of fire. Every building burns, some blown right apart. Bodies litter the scene, not one of them moving. There's a grounded Alliance ship not far from the cannon that shot it down. 
INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
We see Mal's face as the sight hits him like a gut-punch. 
EXT. MINING CAMP - MOMENTS LATER 
The crew pours out even as the ramp lowers, going off in all directions, calling out to people... Kaylee heads for the burning church. 
KAYLEE Shepherd? Shepherd Book! She stops, looking at the ground by the steeple. There is the body on the ground, face down. The child she played with at dinner. Kaylee stares, at first uncomprehending. ANGLE: MAL, moving in the other direction, approaches the cannon, Jayne behind him. He stops and sees: Book, lying by the cannon, torn up badly from the waist down. 
4 MAL (to Jayne) Get the Doc. He moves to the Shepherd, grabs his searching hand. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Shepherd... Don't move. 
BOOK Won't go far... 
MAL Shouldn't've been you. I'm so sorry, it was... they should've hit us. They should've hit me. 
BOOK That crossed my mind. 
(ROUGHS) I shot him down -- 
MAL I seen. 
BOOK I killed the ship... that killed us. Not... very Christian of me. 
MAL You did what's right. 
BOOK (not unkindly) Coming from you, that means... almost nothing... HNAAH! Ah, I'm long gone... 
MAL Doc'll bring you round. I look to be bored by many more sermons 'fore you slip -- don't move -- 
BOOK Can't... order me around, boy. I'm not one of your crew. 
MAL Yes you are. Book coughs up blood, grabbing Mal. Urgent, almost angry. 
BOOK You... it's on you now... all this death, this shit... you have to find a course. This can't mean nothing. River... you have to... 
MAL Come on, keep it up -- Book grabs Mal's face, talks as though replying to something: 
BOOK I don't care what you believe! Just... believe it. Whatever you have to... His breathing becomes laboured. Hitched. Stopped. His hand slips away, his blood leaving a distinct print on Mal's face. Jayne and Simon run up,Simon slowing down -- going to the e he's-dead.----Zne -„a r.7-1, ;,,,r them as Jayne looks around him, Mal still fixed on Book. 
AD 
JAYNE How come they ain't waiting? They know'd we was coming, how come they only sent one? 
MO Zoe realizes the answer, turns to Wash. 
ZOE Get on the Cortex. Wave the Sanchez brothers, Li Shen -- anyone whose ever sheltered us after a heist. Tell them to get out. Get out now. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. BRIDGE - LATER 
Silence. Every Cortex screen is on, each looking at a different place. Every one shows fire, destruction or the snow of an interrupted signal. Mal stands alone amidst the screens, saying nothing. After a long moment, all of the screens hitch, the images replaced by identical images of the Operative. He looks solemn. 
THE OPERATIVE V0 I'm sorry. But I cannot let you hide and I cannot let you run. Things become... extreme. And we wish for another way. 
INARA Please, we should talk this over -- 
JAYNE I ain't takin' orders from a man has lost his brainstem -- , -Mal pule-s-his- in his face, steps back, hand on his. 
V0 
MAL This is how it works. Anybody doesn't wanna fly with me anymore, this is your port of harbour. There's a lot of fine ways to die. I'm not waiting for the Alliance to choose mine. He walks through the group, toward the smashed cockpit of the Alliance fighter. Struggling to get out is the badly wounded pilot. He sees Mal coming and raises his hands in surrender. Mal shoots him in the head, turns back. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) I mean to confound those killers, and take my shot at getting to Miranda, maybe finding out what all I'm dying for. That's my theme now. So I hear a word out of any of you that ain't helping me out or taking your leave I will fucking shoot you. He grabs a body -- drops it at Zoe's feet as he heads toward the ship. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Get to work. 
EXT. SPACE - NIGHT 
CLOSE ON THE BODIES as they BURN, flames passing over them and suddenly flickering out as dark falls. They are patches of leathered flesh stretched over bone -- monsters, screaming soundlessly in the nothing of space. We arm past them to the windows of the bridge, looking in at Mal, watching, with Zoe behind and Wash at the helm. And we pull back out to see the whole of Serenity for the first time: It is hardly recognizable. Charred corpses on the nose, Cannon atop with a space-suited corpse draped within, long scars, welded-on parts and war paint... the trail of green light burns out with sporadic bursts of vapor. It looks, for all the world, like a Reaver ship. 
INT. CARGO BAY - CONTINUING 
Mal comes down the stairs to the catwalk. He hesitates, then steps into the shuttle. �Mo 
INT. SHUTTLE - CONTINUING 
It's dark in here. Mal stands with his back to the door, no light on his face, shaking. Not crying, but overcome. 
LOW 
INARA Mal. He looks up: she's in the corner looking through that trunk of hers, hands on a long oilcloth wrapped around something. 
MAL Didn't see you. 
I NARA I figured that. 
MAL Anything of use in there? 
INARA Maybe. She puts it down and crosses to the bed. He sits by her. 
MAL You don't have to stay in the shuttle, you know. There's empty rooms, if you wanna sleep awhile. 
INARA You think anyone's set to sleep? Simon's portioning out overdoses of morphine, just in case. 
MAL Cheerful fellow. (looking around) Did you really miss this place? 
INARA (rueful smile) Sometimes... Not so much right now. A beat. He doesn't look at her when he asks: 
MAL Why did you leave? Site does lo9}E-at-- t -m- 
INARA Why didn't you ask me not to? 
Dissatisfied, Mal rises. 
MAL I, uh, I'd better go check on the VW crew. See how the inevitable mutiny is coming along. They both want to say more. They don't. He goes. 
EXT. SPACE - NIGHT 
Serenity flies, silent. 
INT. FOREDECK HALL/BRIDGE - NIGHT 
The group make their way toward the bridge. Those close enough to get a view out the window are looking freaked -- those already on the bridge are stock still. Pressed up against the glass of the window is River, just staring. 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
Reverse to see: an armada. The black sky is filled with what must be ninety ships in a vague cluster, as Serenity breaks frame headed toward them. Most of them hang still in the air. Some move swimmingly about. Some turn in gentle drifts, as though looking around. Vd INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING They all wait, tensed up, as they approach the armada... 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
And arrive, moving slowly through the ranks of ships. Serenity passes a large, bizarrely shaped ship. It turns, as though watching her. But lets her pass. Another minute, and Serenity is through the Armada, headed for the small planet just beyond. 
INT. THE OPERATIVE'S SHIP - BRIDGE - LATER 
The Operative stares blankly at the Ensign. 
INARA They just lay down... They notice River now, in the middle of the street, keening. She drops to her knees, clutching her head. 
As she speaks we see, as she sees, FLASHES: bodies. In homes, in piles: an entire world, gently dead. 
RIVER , make them stop, they're everywhere, every city every house every room, they're all inside me, I can hear them all and they're saying nothing! GET UP! PLEASE, GET THEM UP! , please God make me a stone... 
JAYNE 
(UPSET) She's starting to damage my calm. 
ZOE Jayne -- 
JAYNE She's right! Everybody's dead! This whole world is dead for no reason! 
WASH Let's get to the beacon. 
EXT. LANDING STRIP - DAY 
It's small -- landing is easier in cities with flying vehicles. At the end of a short runway, tipped and damaged, is an Alliance Research Vessel. The gang makes its way towards it. 
INT. RESEARCH VESSEL - DAY 
It's a mess, doors pried open, signs of violence but no bodies. The gang walks through it, looking around. River pulls away from Simon, suddenly determined. She approaches a console, and a small cylindrical object. She turns it slightly -- A hologram squawks to life amidst them all. First we see images that resemble the flashes from River's mind: Corpses, everywhere. We hear and then see DOCTOR CARON standing exactly where she was when she recorded this message... (As she speaks, we see angles of everyone watching, taking it in.. River silently mouths every word.) ,two 
CARON -- just a few of the images we've recorded, and you can see it isn't.. it isn't what we thought. There's been no war here, and no terraforming event. The environment is stable. It's the Pax, the G-32 Paxilon Hydroclorate that we added to the air processors. It's... (tearing up) .well it works... it was supposed to calm the population, weed out aggression. Make a peaceful... it worked. The people here stopped fighting. And then they stopped everything else. They stopped going to work, stopped breeding... talking... eating... (trying for control) There's thirty million people here and they all just let themselves die. They didn't even kill themselves. They just... most starved. When they stopped working the power grids, there were overloads, fires -- people burned to death sitting in their V0 chairs. Just sitting. There is a loud bang somewhere behind her -- she starts, gathers herself. 
CARON 
(CONTINUING) I have to be quick. There was no one working the receptors when we landed, so we hit pretty hard. We can't leave. We can't take any of the local transports because... The bang again. 
CARON 
(CONTINUING) There are people... they're not people... about a tenth of a percent of the population had the opposite reaction to the Pax. Their aggressor response increased... beyond madness. They've become... 
(MORE) 
VJ 
CARON (cont'd) they've killed most of us... not just killed, they've done... things. 
V0 
WASH 
(QUIETLY) Reavers... they made them... 
CARON I won't live to report this, and we haven't got power to... people have to know... (loses it here) We meant it for the best... to make people safer... to... God! She whirls, grabs a gun and fires -- then aims the gun at her own head - but a Reaver is on her, knocks the gun away and bites her face -- She screams continuously as the Reaver tops her, biting at her and tearing at her clothes, at her skin. 
JAYNE 
(QUIETLY) Turn it off. Wash does, nobody saying anything. 
Mal walks outside. 
EXT. RESEARCH VESSEL - CONTINUING 
He takes a few unsteady steps away from the vessel. Inara appears behind him, follows -- he holds a hand out behind him, seemingly to make her stop, but then he grabs her shoulder, holds her for support. She puts her hand over his. 
MAL I seen so much death... I been on fields carpeted with bodies, friends and enemies -- I seen men and women blown to messes no further from me than you. 
INARA Mal... 
MAL But every single one of those people died on their feet. Fighting. 
(MORE) 
V0 
MAL (cont'd) Or, hell, running away -- doing summat to get through. This is... 
INARA Mal, I need your help with this. I need you to help me, because I can't -- He looks at her, folds her into his arms. Brings her face to his, not kissing but touching, pressing into each other with the urgency of pulsing, necessary life. 
INT. RESEARCH VESSEL - CONTINUING 
River falls to her knees, vomiting. Simon goes to her, puts his hand on her back, lets her ride it out. 
INT. THE OPERATIVE'S SHIP - BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
As the Operative waits with the others. 
HELMSMAN I'm reading activity in the cloud. 
THE OPERATIVE (into com) Lock and fire on my command. (to himself) You should have let me see her. We should have done this as men. Not with fire... 
HELMSMAN Sir! ,Wd 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
It's the Operative's POV: the swirling Ion cloud as Serenity breaks through and heads at us, fully Reavered out. 
INT. THE OPERATIVE'S SHIP - BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
He looks confused, then smiles at the ruse. Hits the com: 
THE OPERATIVE Vessel in range, lock on... 
(ADMIRINGLY) Bastard's not even changing course... 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
As Serenity get a bit closer, FIFTY REAVER SHIPS suddenly burst from the cloud, also heading straight at us. 
INT. THE OPERATIVE'S SHIP - BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
The Operative -- and everyone around him - goes big-eyed. 
THE OPERATIVE That's not good... 
HELMSMAN 
(FREAKING) Sir? 
THE OPERATIVE Target the Reavers! (into com) Target the Reavers! Target everyone! Somebody FIRE! 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
Serenity suddenly lists hard to port -- until she's almost upside down -- the Alliance ships FIRE, missing Serenity but tagging a few Reaver ships, none of whom have slowed down -- 
INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
Mal is back on the bridge as we look out at the upside down Alliance fleet, missiles just passing us -- 
MAL We're too close for them to arm -- 
ZOE This is gonna be very tight -- 
JAYNE 
(ENTERING) Hey look, we're upside down. V0 Zoe and Mal shoot a look at Jayne. 
WASH (to himself) I am a leaf on the wind, watch how I soar. 
EXT. SPACE - CONTINUING 
Serenity slips right under the Operative's ship and ducks and weaves between dozens more. The Reaver force hits the Alliance head on -- and several ships do just that, smashing into bigger ships kamikaze-style, everything exploding -- The fleet mobilizes, blasting Reaver ships, circling around, and an air war begins, a frenzied, balletic ecstasy of destruction that the camera hurtles through as ships and parts of ships fly at and past it. 
ANGLE: SERENITY She nearly makes it all the way through the alliance fleet before a barrelling chunk of debris -- which is twice their size -- forces them to come hard about and remain in the fray. 
J INT. BRIDGE - CONTINUING 
Mal looks out at the chaos... 
MAL Chickens come home to roost... They are suddenly JOLTED by a glancing blow from another ship -- Wash struggles to control her -- 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) The hell -- 
WASH 
(PANICKY) It's okay! I am a leaf on the wind! 
MAL 
V0 I am. The Operative raises his gun -- but Mal is the quickdraw master, shoots the gun out of the Operative's hand and gets two hits to the chest (armored) before he makes it to cover. 
MAL 
(CONTINUING) Of course, that ain't exactly plan 
A.. He drops out his cartridge and slams another in. The Operative hides behind some machinery. Tries to peek out at Mal -- and more shots send him scrambling back to cover. Mal holsters his gun and jumps for the rung above him, starts going hand over hand to the island, moving as fast as he can. The Operative sees his moment, dives for his gun -- but it's been ruined by Mal's shot. He looks over at Mal with death in his eyes. He runs at the railing, vaults off it, and grabs a chain -- it snaps and he swings, grabbing another. He reaches Mal and double kicks him from behind -- Mal flies 4 off the rung but grabs a chain -- he tries to kick at the Operative, but the guy is frikkin' Tarzan, he climbs up and pulls a lever releasing one end of Mal's chain -- Mal goes swinging, smacks into the wall six feet below the platform. He scrambles up just as the Operative swings himself toward the platform from above. 
INT. BLACK ROOM/INNER CORRIDOR - CONTINUING 
Jayne is still firing continuously as he drags Zoe back to the barricades. Simon moves to help -- Kaylee firing now, squinting with effort -- and pulls open the cut back of Zoe's shirt, checks the wound. 
SIMON Spine's intact -- 
ZOE Just gimme a bandage. Simon pulls a spraycan from his bag, sprays the wound with a foam that hardens instantly into an elastic covering. 
There are a few gun shots (as well as nail-balls and blades) from the Reavers. Jayne switches weapons, tossing another to Zoe and opening fire -- 
A0 
JAYNE Oh, now you're likin' guns, huh? Cheaters! He takes a hit in the shoulder, grimaces and keeps firing. River watches, the gun limp in her hand. Kaylee grabs it and starts another round -- but she's peppered with dart-like projectiles. She screams and drops the weapon, pulling the projectiles from her -- Inara helps her up, pulls her back as Zoe shouts: 
ZOE Everybody fall back! Fall back! Everyone stumbles or is dragged into the inner corridor. Inara hits the controls and the doors start to close, from each side and above and below. Then, when the hole is maybe four by four, they stop. 
ZOE 
(CONTINUING) Jayne! Grenade! 
JAYNE Very last one... He tosses it through the hole. Zoe doesn't even flinch from the blast as she thinks. 
ZOE They're gonna get in -- 
KAYLEE Can close it... from outside... 
ZOE No one's coming back from that... She tries to stand, fails. 
ZOE 
(CONTINUING) How much ammo do we have? 
JAYNE We got three full cartridges and my swingin' cod. That's all. Inara is by the elevator, pounding for it to come.--- 
INARA Lift isn't moving... 
ZOE When they come, try to plug the hole with 'em... Kaylee cries out and Simon moves to her. 
KAYLEE I'm starting to lose some feeling here... I think there's something in them darts they throwed at me. 
SIMON Lie still. I'm gonna give you something to counteract the -- He stands, looking around him. His bag is over by Zoe. 
SIMON 
(CONTINUING) My bag. and SHKOWW!, the bullet takes him in the belly -- everything suddenly moving very slowly as he spins slightly, one foot lifted, a confused expression on his face -- then speeding right back up as he slams down on his back, gasping for air. River's mouth opens in a scream she doesn't make. Blood spreads from Simon's belly. Inara rushes to him, grabs cloth and puts pressure on the wound, puts Simon's hand on it. 
INARA Keep pressure here... 
SIMON My bag. Need... adrenaline... and a shot of calaphar for Kaylee... I can't... River...? She is by his side, takes his hand. She has a kind of serenity to her, like she understands something now. 
SIMON 
(CONTINUING) River... I'm sorry... 
RIVER No. No. The lights go out. Everyone looks about them. Jayne fires again, but all the sound has bled out save these two. 
SIMON I hate to... leave... 
RIVER You won't. You take care of me, Simon. You've always taken care of me. She stands as the emergency lights come on, giving her face an unearthly glow as she looks down at him. 
RIVER 
(CONTINUING) My turn. She's running so fast, nobody has time to react til she DIVES through the hole in the doors, then Simon SCREAMS her name, the scream following us back into the Black Room where River lands in a perfect roll, comes up in a room full of Reavers. Without a moment's hesitation she makes it to the panel, gets the doors closing. She dodges a blade, but a blow to,the back of the head shakes her. She weaves around a couple of Reavers to get to the closing doors, but at the last second her ankle is grabbed and pulled out from under her. The last thing we see is her being dragged back as they swarm over her. ANGLE: THE BLAST DOORS, as they shut with a shuddering RLUNG. 
INT. BASEMENT, OVER THE GENERATOR - CONTINUING 
The gang is still trying to patch themselves together when the elevator doors open. Mal staggers out, holding his bleeding side. 
ZOE Sir? 
140 MAL It's done. Report? Zoe looks at the badly wounded Simon, is about to give a report -- and the doors start to open behind her. Everyone turns to look, those who can feebly raising weapons, as the square iris of the opening blast doors widens to reveal River, standing alone. She is holding two Reaver blades, is bloody but unbowed. And the only one alive. We hold on her a moment, then the wall behind her is ripped completely away. Behind it, grappling hooks chained to a huge tractor pull the wall away as through the smoke come some fifteen Alliance soldiers, who line up, rifles trained on our gang... 
SOLDIER Drop your weapons! Drop 'em now! 
ANOTHER SOLDIER Do we engage? Do we engage? 
Mal and the others tense up. River turns slowly to face the soldiers, blades still gripped... A soldier levels his gun at her, sweaty and frantic... others still shouting... vp INT. BASEMENT, OVER THE GENERATOR - CONTINUING The Operative sits in silence, the voices coming over his com: 
SOLDIER (O.S.) Targets are acquired! Do we have a kill order? Do we have an order? 
INT. BLACK ROOM - CONTINUING 
CLOSE ON: THE SOLDIER'S FINGER, SQUEEZING THE TRIGGER... 
BLACK OUT. 
EXT. DESERT PLANET - SUNSET 
We are close on a gravestone. It is rounded, looks more like a bell than a headstone. It is topped by a jar built'into the stone. The jar is weathered tin at top and bottom, but glass in the middle. Inside the glass we can see one of those slightly moving photos. It is of Mr Universe and his lovebot, and the name Mr Universe is carved roughly in the stone beneath. The camera moves to the right and we see another such stone, 40 this one bearing the image and inscription: Shepherd Derrial Book. The third is Hoban Washburne. Wash. The camera continues moving right, but the next stone houses a small home-made rocket with pieces of paper taped to it instead of a picture-jar. And fixing another slip of paper to it is River. She moves away from the stone as Mal does likewise. They're flanked by the crew: Jayne, Inara (to whom Mal moves), Simon, who stands holding River before him and hand in hand with Kaylee. He has a crutch supporting his other side. There is a moment, then they all move aside, saying nothing. Between them walks Zoe, in a simple white funeral gown, holding a burning taper. She stands at the stones a moment, then holds the taper to the rocket fuse. Stands back with the others. The rocket shoots up into the darkening sky. They all watch its sputtering tail a moment, then it it explodes in a series of fireworks. 
WIDE ON the group, as the fireworks go off over their heads. We are close on another explosion when it becomes: CLOSE ON: A BLOWTORCH spitting sparks. Widen to see: 
EXT. REPAIR YARD/SERENITY - DAY 
Zoe is harnessed to the nose of the ship, welding on a replacement for the very window the harpoon that impaled Wash came through. 
INT. DUCT INSIDE SERENITY - DAY 
We are close on River as she works inside a crawlspace just above the engine room, replacing wires. Some of them run to a computer screen that she checks and adjusts. 
EXT. REPAIR YARD/TOP OF SERENITY - DAY 
Mal and Jayne hold onto the cannon as a crane is lifting it off the top of the ship. Close on Mal as he watches it go... 
WIDER ANGLE: 
EXT. REPAIR YARD - CONTINUING 
t f o And here we see the whole ship for the first time, harnessed by the wings above the ground so she can be worked on all over. The cannon is being hoisted away from her as a crew of repairmen wheel new landing gear under her belly. 
INT. ENGINE ROOM - DAY 
Kaylee, deeply greasy, tweaks a part on the engine and crosses to the back where Simon, shirtless and not entirely ungreasy himself, is wrenching a bolt into place above his head. A moment looking at him and she can't help herself - she slides her arms around his chest... 
EXT. SERENITY - DAY 
On a scaffold, Inara repaints the name on the nose with elegant precision. 
INT. ENGINE ROOM - DAY 
Kaylee and Simon are just making out like fiends, work completely forgotten. With nothing resembling elegant precision, they sink out of frame to the floor. 
V0 
A beat, and River's head appears from the crawlspace above, looking down at them with detached curiosity. 
EXT. REPAIR YARD/SERENITY - DAY 
It's raining as Mal is hauling in the last of the repair equipment. The camera moves around him, skirting the ground of the junkyard, till it lands on a figure in foreground, standing watching him from some twenty feet away. Mal stops, doesn't turn. Hand near his gun. 
MAL If you're here to tell me we ain't finished... then we will be real quick. The Operative stands just under the canopy of the nose of the ship, framed by the rain behind. 
THE OPERATIVE Do you know what an uproar you've caused? Protests, riots -- cries for a recall of the entire Parliament. 
MAL 
(TURNING) We've seen the broadwaves. 
THE OPERATIVE You must be pleased. 
MAL 'Verse wakes up a spell. Won't be long 'fore she rolls right over and falls back asleep. Taint my worry. 
