The Seventh Seal 
The night had brought little relief from the heat, and at dawn a hot gust of wind blows across the colorless sea. The KNIGHT, Antonius Block, lies prostrate on some spruce branches spread over the fine sand. His eyes are wide-open and bloodshot from lack of sleep. 
Nearby his squire JONS is snoring loudly. He has fallen asleep where he collapsed, at the edge of the forest among the wind-gnarled fir trees. His open mouth gapes towards the dawn, and unearthly sounds come from his throat. At the sudden gust of wind, the horses stir, stretching their parched muzzles towards the sea. They are as thin and worn as their masters. 
The KNIGHT has risen and waded into the shallow water, where he rinses his sunburned face and blistered lips. JONS rolls over to face the forest and the darkness. He moans in his sleep and vigorously scratches the stubbled hair on his head. A scar stretches diagonally across his scalp, as white as lightning against the grime. 
The KNIGHT returns to the beach and falls on his knees. With his eyes closed and brow furrowed, he says his morning prayers. His hands are clenched together and his lips form the words silently. His face is sad and bitter. He opens his eyes and stares directly into the morning sun which wallows up from the misty sea like some bloated, dying fish. The sky is gray and immobile, a dome of lead. A cloud hangs mute and dark over the western horizon. High up, barely visible, a seagull floats on motionless wings. Its cry is weird and restless. The KNIGHT'S large gray horse lifts its head and whinnies. Antonius Block turns around. 
Behind him stands a man in black. His face is very pale and he keeps his hands hidden in the wide folds of his cloak. 
KNIGHT Who are you? 
DEATH I am Death. 
KNIGHT Have you come for me? 
DEATH I have been walking by your side for a long time. 
KNIGHT That I know. 
DEATH Are you prepared? 
KNIGHT My body is frightened, but I am not. 
DEATH Well, there is no shame in that. 
The KNIGHT has risen to his feet. He shivers. DEATH opens his cloak to place it around the KNIGHT'S shoulders. 
KNIGHT Wait a moment. 
DEATH That's what they all say. I grant no reprieves. 
KNIGHT You play chess, don't you? 
A gleam of interest kindles in DEATH'S eyes. 
DEATH How did you know that? 
KNIGHT I have seen it in paintings and heard it sung in ballads. 
DEATH Yes, in fact I'm quite a good chess player. 
JONS Not exactly. 
KNIGHT What did he say? 
JONS Nothing. 
KNIGHT Was he a mute? 
JONS No, sir, I wouldn't say that. As a matter of fact, he was quite eloquent. 
KNIGHT Oh? 
JONS He was eloquent, all right. The trouble is that what he had to say was most depressing. (sings) One moment you're bright and lively, The next you're crawling with worms. Fate is a terrible villain And you, my friend, its poor victim. 
KNIGHT Must you sing? 
JONS No. 
The KNIGHT hands his squire a piece of bread, which keeps him quiet for a while. The sun burns down on them cruelly, and beads of perspiration trickle down their faces. There is a cloud of dust around the horses' hooves. They ride past an inlet and along verdant groves. In the shade of some large trees stands a bulging wagon covered with a mottled canvas. A horse whinnies nearby and is answered by the KNIGHT'S horse. The two travelers do not stop to rest under the shade of the trees but continue riding until they disappear at the bend of the road. 
In his sleep, JOF the juggler hears the neighing of his horse and the answer from a distance. He tries to go on sleeping, but it is stifling inside the wagon. The rays of the sun filtering through the canvas cast streaks of light across the face of JOF'S wife, MIA, and their one-year-old son, MIKAEL, who are sleeping deeply and peacefully. Near them, JONAS SKAT, an older man, snores loudly. 
JOF crawls out of the wagon. There is still a spot of shade under the big trees. He takes a drink of water, gargles, stretches and talks to his scrawny old horse. 
JOF Good morning. Have you had breakfast? I can't eat grass, worse luck. Can't you teach me how? We're a little hard up. People aren't very interested in juggling in this part of the country. 
He has picked up the juggling balls and slowly begins to toss them. Then he stands on his head and cackles like a hen. Suddenly he stops and sits down with a look of utter astonishment on his face. The wind causes the trees to sway slightly. The leaves stir and there is a soft murmur. The flowers and the grass bend gracefully, and somewhere a bird raises its voice in a long warble. 
JOF'S face breaks into a smile and his eyes fill with tears. With a dazed expression he sits flat on his behind while the grass rustles softly, and bees and butterflies hum around his head. The unseen bird continues to sing. 
Suddenly the breeze stops blowing, the bird stops singing, JOF'S smile fades, the flowers and grass wilt in the heat. The old horse is still walking around grazing and swishing its tail to ward off the flies. 
JOF comes to life. He rushes into the wagon and shakes MIA awake. 
JOF Mia, wake up. Wake up! Mia, I've just seen something. I've got to tell you about it! 
MIA (sits up, terrified) What is it? What's happened? 
JOF Listen, I've had a vision. No, it wasn't a vision. It was real, absolutely real. 
MIA Oh, so you've had a vision again! 
MIA's voice is filled with gentle irony. JOF shakes his head and grabs her by the shoulders. 
JOF To make one of the balls stand absolutely still in the air. 
MIA But that's impossible. 
JOF Impossible for us -- but not for him. 
MIA You're dreaming again. 
She yawns. The sun, has made her a bit drowsy and she lies down on the grass. JOF does likewise and puts one arm around his wife's shoulders. 
JOF I've composed a song. I made it up during the night when I couldn't sleep. Do you want to hear it? 
MIA Sing it. I'm very curious. 
JOF I have to sit up first. 
He sits with his legs crossed, makes a dramatic gesture with his arms and sings in a loud voice. 
JOF (sings) On a lily branch a dove is perched Against the summer sky, She sings a wondrous song of Christ And there's great joy on high. 
He interrupts his singing in order to be complimented by his wife. 
JOF Mia! Are you asleep? 
MIA It's a lovely song. 
JOF I haven't finished yet. 
MIA I heard it, but I think I'll sleep a little longer. You can sing the rest to me afterwards. 
JOF All you do is sleep. 
JOF is a bit offended and glances over at his son, MIKAEL, but he is also sleeping soundly in the high grass. JONAS SKAT comes out from the wagon. He yawns; he is very tired and in a bad humor. In his hands he holds a crudely made death mask. 
SKAT Is this supposed to be a mask for an actor? If the priests didn't pay us so well, I'd say no thank you. 
JOF Are you going to play Death? 
SKAT Just think, scaring decent folk out of their wits with this kind of nonsense. 
JOF When are we supposed to do this play? 
SKAT At the saints' feast in Elsinore. We're going to perform right on the church steps, believe it or not. 
DEATH Yes, I hear you. 
KNIGHT I want knowledge, not faith, not suppositions, but knowledge. I want God to stretch out His hand towards me, reveal Himself and speak to me. 
DEATH But He remains silent. 
KNIGHT I call out to Him in the dark but no one seems to be there. 
DEATH Perhaps no one is there. 
KNIGHT Then life is an outrageous horror. No one can live in the face of death, knowing that all is nothingness. 
DEATH Most people never reflect about either death or the futility of life. 
KNIGHT But one day they will have to stand at that last moment of life and look towards the darkness. 
DEATH When that day comes ... 
KNIGHT In our fear, we make an image, and that image we call God. 
DEATH You are worrying ... 
KNIGHT Death visited me this morning. We are playing chess together. This reprieve gives me the chance to arrange an urgent matter. 
DEATH What matter is that? 
KNIGHT My life has been a futile pursuit, a wandering, a great deal of talk without meaning. I feel no bitterness or self-reproach because the lives of most people are very much like this. But I will use my reprieve for one meaningful deed. 
DEATH Is that why you are playing chess with Death? 
KNIGHT He is a clever opponent, but up to now I haven't lost a single man. 
DEATH How will you outwit Death in your game? 
KNIGHT I use a combination of the bishop and the knight which he hasn't yet discovered. In the next move I'll shatter one of his flanks. 
DEATH I'll remember that. 
DEATH shows his face at the grill of the confession booth for a moment but disappears instantly. 
KNIGHT You've tricked and cheated me! But we'll meet again, and I'll find a way. 
DEATH (invisible) We'll meet at the inn, and there we'll continue playing. 
JONS Neither can I. 
JONS walks over towards the horses. The KNIGHT stands for a few, moments looking at the young girl. She is almost a child. Slowly she turns her eyes towards him. 
KNIGHT Have you seen the Devil? 
The MONK stops reading and raises his head. 
MONK You must not talk to her. 
KNIGHT Can that be so dangerous? 
MONK I don't know, but she is believed to have caused the pestilence with which we are affected. 
KNIGHT I understand. 
He nods resignedly and walks away. The young woman starts to moan as though she were having a horrible nightmare. The sound of her cries follows the two riders for a considerable distance down the road. 
The sun stands high in the sky, like a red ball of fire. The waterskin is empty and JONS looks for a well where he can fill it. 
They approach a group of peasant cottages at the edge of the forest. JONS ties up the horses, slings the skin over his shoulder and walks along the path towards the nearest cottage. As always, his movements are light and almost soundless. The door to the cottage is open. He stops outside, but when no one appears he enters. It is very dark inside and his foot touches a soft object. He looks down. Beside the whitewashed fireplace, a woman is lying with her face to the ground. 
At the sound of approaching steps, JONS quickly hides behind the door. A man comes down a ladder from the loft. He is broad and thick-set. His eyes are black and his face is pale and puffy. His clothes are well cut but dirty and in rags. He carries a cloth sack. Looking around, he goes into the inner room, bends over the bed, tucks something into the bag, slinks along the walls, looking on the shelves, finds something else which he tucks in his bag. 
Slowly he re-enters the outer room, bends over the dead woman and carefully slips a ring from her finger. At that moment a young woman comes through the door. She stops and stares at the stranger. 
RAVEL Why do you look so surprised? I steal from the dead. These days it's quite a lucrative enterprise. 
The GIRL makes a movement as if to run away. 
RAVEL You're thinking of running to the village and telling. That wouldn't serve any purpose. Each of us has to save his own skin. It's as simple as that. 
GIRL Don't touch me. 
RAVAL Don't try to scream. There's no one around to hear you, neither God nor man. 
Slowly he closes the door behind the GIRL. The stuffy room is now in almost total darkness. But JONS becomes clearly visible. 
JONS I recognize you, although it's a long time since we met. Your name is Raval, from the theological college at Roskilde. You are Dr. Mirabilis, Coelestis et Diabilis. 
RAVAL smiles uneasily and looks around. 
JONS Am I not right? 
The actors have placed their wagon under a tree in the yard of the inn. Dressed in colorful costumes, they perform a farce. 
The spectators watch the performance, commenting on it noisily. There are merchants with fat, beer-sweaty faces, apprentices and journeymen, farmhands and milkmaids. A whole flock of children perch in the trees around the wagon. 
The KNIGHT and his squire have sat down in the shadow of a wall. They drink beer and doze in the midday heat. The GIRL from the deserted village sleeps at JONS'S side. SKAT beats the drums, JOF blows the flute, MIA performs a gay and lively dance. They perspire under the hot white sun. When they have finished SKAT comes forward and bows. 
SKAT Noble ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest. Please remain standing for a little longer, or sit on the ground, because we are now going to perform a tragedia about an unfaithful wife, her jealous husband, and the handsome lover -- that's me. 
MIA and JOF have quickly changed costumes and again step out on the stage. They bow, to the public. 
SKAT Here is the husband. Here is the wife. If you'll shut up over there, you'll see something splendid. As I said, I play the lover and I haven't entered yet. That's why I'm going to hide behind the curtain for the time being. (he wipes the sweat from his forehead) It's damned hot. I think we'll have a thunderstorm. 
He places his leg in front of JOF as if to trip him, raises MIA's skirt, makes a face as if he could see all the wonders of the world underneath it, and disappears behind the gaudily patched curtains. 
SKAT is very handsome, now that he can see himself in the reflection of a tin washbowl. His hair is tightly curled, his eyebrows are beautifully bushy, glittering earrings vie for equal attention with his teeth, and his cheeks are flushed rose red. 
He sits out in back on the tailboard of the wagon, dangling his legs and whistling to himself. 
In the meantime JOF and MIA play their tragedy; it is not, however, received with great acclaim. SKAT suddenly discovers that someone is watching him as he gazes contentedly into the tin bowl. A woman stands there, stately in both height and volume. 
SKAT frowns, toys with his small dagger and occasionally throws a roguish but fiery glance at the beautiful visitor. She suddenly discovers that one of her shoes doesn't quite fit. She leans down to fix it and in doing so allows her generous bosom to burst out of its prison -- no more than honor and chastity allow, but still enough so that the actor with his experienced eye immediately sees that there are ample rewards to be had here. 
Now she comes a little closer, kneels down and opens a bundle containing several dainty morsels and a skin filled with red wine. JONAS SKAT manages not to fall off the wagon in his excitement. Standing on the steps of the wagon, he supports himself against a nearby tree, crosses his legs and bows. 
The woman quietly bites into a chicken leg dripping with fat. At this moment the actor is stricken by a radiant glance full of lustful appetites. 
When he sees this look, SKAT makes an instantaneous decision, jumps down from the wagon and kneels in front of the blushing damsel. 
She becomes weak and faint from his nearness, looks at him with a glassy glance and breathes heavily. SKAT doesn't neglect to press kisses on her small, chubby hands. The sun shines brightly and small birds make noises in the bushes. 
Now she is forced to sit back; her legs seem unwilling to support her any longer. Bewildered, she singles out another chicken leg from the large sack of food and holds it up in front of SKAT with an appealing and triumphant expression, as if it were her maidenhood being offered as a prize. 
SKAT hesitates momentarily, but he is still the strategist. He lets the chicken leg fall to the grass, and murmurs in the woman's rosy ear. 
His words seem to please her. She puts her arms around the actor's neck and pulls him to her with such fierceness that both of them lose their balance and tumble down on the soft grass. The small birds take to their wings with frightened shrieks. 
JOF stands in the hot sun with a flickering lantern in his hand. MIA pretends to be asleep on a bench which has been pulled forward on the stage. 
JOF Night and moonlight now prevail Here sleeps my wife so frail ... 
VOICE FROM THE PUBLIC Does she snore? 
JOF May I point out that this is a tragedy, and in tragedies one doesn't snore. 
KNIGHT (yawns) Yes, yes. 
JONS Even the ghost stories about God the Father, the angels, Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost -- all these I've accepted without too much emotion. 
He leans down over the GIRL as she crouches at his feet and pats her on the head. The KNIGHT drinks his beer silently. 
JONS (contentedly) My little stomach is my world, my head is my eternity, and my hands, two wonderful suns. My legs are time's damned pendulums, and my dirty feet are two splendid starting points for my philosophy. Everything is worth precisely as much as a belch, the only difference being that a belch is more satisfying. 
The beer mug is empty. Sighing, JONS gets to his feet. The GIRL follows him like a shadow. 
In the yard he meets a large man with a sooty face and a dark expression. He stops JONS with a roar. 
JONS What are you screaming about? 
PLOG I am Plog, the smith, and you are the squire Jˆns. 
JONS That's possible. 
PLOG Have you seen my wife? 
JONS No, I haven't. But if I had seen her and she looked like you, I'd quickly forget that I'd seen her. 
PLOG Well, in that case you haven't seen her. 
JONS Maybe she's run off. 
PLOG Do you know anything? 
JONS I know quite a lot, but not about your wife. Go to the inn. Maybe they can help you. 
The smith sighs sadly and goes inside. 
The inn is very small and full of people eating and drinking to forget their newly aroused fears of eternity. In the open fireplace a roasting pig turns on an iron spit. The sun shines outside the casement window, its sharp rays piercing the darkness of the room, which is thick with fumes and perspiration. 
MERCHANT Yes, it's true! The plague is spreading along the west coast. People are dying like flies. Usually business would be good at this time of year, but, damn it, I've still got my whole stock unsold. 
WOMAN They speak of the judgment day. And all these omens are terrible. Worms, chopped-off hands and other monstrosities began pouring out of an old woman, and down in the village another woman gave birth to a calf's head. 
OLD MAN The day of judgment. Imagine. 
FARMER It hasn't rained here for a month. We'll surely lose our crops. 
MERCHANT And people are acting crazy, I'd say. They flee the country and carry the plague with them wherever they go. 
Eventually a rather sorrowful visage emerges. Blood runs from a bruise on his forehead and his nose, and a tooth has been loosened, but otherwise JOF seems unhurt. 
JOF Ouch, it hurts. 
MIA Why did you have to go there? And of course you drank. 
MIA's anxiety has been replaced by a mild anger. She pats him a little harder than necessary. 
JOF Ouch! I didn't drink anything. 
MIA Then I suppose you were boasting about the angels and devils you consort with. People don't like someone who has too many ideas and fantasies. 
JOF I swear to you that I didn't say a word about angels. 
MIA You were, of course, busy singing and dancing. You can never stop being an actor. People also become angry at that, and you know it. 
JOF doesn't answer but searches for the armlet. He holds it up in front of MIA with an injured expression. 
JOF Look what I bought for you. 
MIA You couldn't afford it. 
JOF (angry) But I got it anyhow. 
The armlet glitters faintly in the twilight. MIA now pulls it across her wrist. They look at it in silence, and their faces soften. They look at each other, touch each other's hands. JOF puts his head against MIA'S shoulder and sighs. 
JOF Oh, how they beat me. 
MIA Why didn't you beat them back? 
JOF I only become frightened and angry. I never get a chance to hit back. I can get angry, you know that. I roared like a lion. 
MIA Were they frightened? 
JOF No, they just laughed. 
Their son MIKAEL crawls over to them. JOF lies down on the ground and pulls his son on top of him. MIA gets down on her hands and knees and playfully sniffs at MIKAEL. 
MIA Do you notice how good he smells? 
JOF And he is so compact to hold. You're a sturdy one. A real acrobat's body. 
He lifts MIKAEL up and holds him by the legs. MIA looks up suddenly, remembering the knight's presence. 
KNIGHT I humbly thank you. 
MIA These are wild strawberries from the forest. I have never seen such large ones. They grow up there on the hillside. Notice how they smell! 
She points with a spoon and smiles. The KNIGHT nods, as if he were pondering some profound thought. JOF eats heartily. 
JOF Your suggestion is good, but I must think it over. 
MIA It might be wise to have company going through the forest. It's said to be full of trolls and ghosts and bandits. That's what I've heard. 
JOF (staunchly) Yes, I'd say that it's not a bad idea, but I have to think about it. Now that Skat has left, I am responsible for the troupe. After all, I have become director of the whole company. 
MIA (mimics) After all, I have become director of the whole company. 
JONS comes walking slowly down the hill, closely followed by the GIRL. MIA points with her spoon. 
MIA Do you want some strawberries? 
JOF This man saved my life. Sit down, my friend, and let us be together. 
MIA (stretches herself) Oh, how nice this is. 
KNIGHT For a short while. 
MIA Nearly always. One day is like another. There is nothing strange about that. The summer, of course, is better than the winter, because in summer you don't have to be cold. But spring is best of all. 
JOF I have written a poem about the spring. Perhaps you'd like to hear it. I'll run and get my lyre. 
He sprints towards the wagon. 
MIA Not now, Jof. Our guests may not be amused by your songs. 
JONS (politely) By all means. I write little songs myself. For example, I know a very funny song about a wanton fish which I doubt that you've heard yet. 
The KNIGHT looks at him. 
JONS You'll not get to hear it either. There are persons here who don't appreciate my art and I don't want to upset anyone. I'm a sensitive soul. 
JOF has come out with his lyre, sits on a small, gaudy box and plucks at the instrument, humming quietly, searching for his melody. JONS yawns and lies down. 
KNIGHT People are troubled by so much. 
MIA It's always better when one is two. Have you no one of your own? 
DEATH Have you tricked me? 
KNIGHT Of course. You fell right in the trap. Check! 
DEATH What are you laughing at? 
KNIGHT Don't worry about my laughter; save your king instead. 
DEATH You're rather arrogant. 
KNIGHT Our game amuses me. 
DEATH It's your move. Hurry up. I'm a little pressed for time. 
KNIGHT I understand that you've a lot to do, but you can't get out of our game. It takes time. 
DEATH is about to answer him but stops and leans over the board. The KNIGHT smiles. 
DEATH Are you going to escort the juggler and his wife through the forest? Those whose names are Jof and Mia and who have a small son? 
KNIGHT Why do you ask? 
DEATH Oh, no reason at all. 
The KNIGHT suddenly stops smiling. DEATH looks at him scornfully. 
Immediately after sundown, the little company gathers in the yard of the inn. There is the KNIGHT, JONS and the GIRL, JOF and MIA in their wagon. Their son, MIKAEL, is already asleep. JONAS SKAT is still missing. 
JONS goes into the inn to get provisions for the night journey and to have a last mug of beer. The inn is now empty and quiet except for a few farmhands and maidens who are eating their evening meal in a corner. At one of the small windows sits a lonely, hunched-over fellow, with a jug of brandy in his hands. His expression is very sad. Once in a while he is shaken by a gigantic sob. It is PLOG, the smith, who sits there and whimpers. 
JONS God in heaven, isn't this Plog, the smith? 
PLOG Good evening. 
JONS Are you sitting here sniveling in loneliness? 
PLOG Yes, yes, look at the smith. He moans like a rabbit. 
JONS If I were in your boots, I'd be happy to get rid of a wife in such an easy way. 
JONS pats the smith on the back, quenches his thirst with beer, and sits down by his side. 
PLOG Are you married? 
JONS Believe! Who said that I believed it? But I love to give good advice. If you ask me for advice you'll get two pieces for the price of one, because after all I really am an educated man. 
JONS gets up from the table and strokes his face with his hands. PLOG becomes very unhappy and grabs his belt. 
PLOG Listen, Jˆns. May I go with you through the forest? I'm so lonely and don't want to go home because everyone will laugh at me. 
JONS Only if you don't whimper all the time, because in that case we'll all have to avoid you. 
PLOG gets up and embraces JONS. Slightly drunk, the two new friends walk towards the door. 
When they come out in the yard, JOF immediately catches sight of them, becomes angry and yells a warning to JONS. 
JOF Jˆns! Watch out. That one wants to fight all the time. He's not quite sane. 
JONS Yes, but now he's just sniveling. 
PLOG steps up to JOF, who blanches with fear. PLOG offers his hand. 
PLOG I'm really sorry if I hurt you. But I have such a hell of a temper, you know. Shake hands. 
JOF gingerly proffers a frightened hand and gets it thoroughly shaken and squeezed. While JOF tries to straighten out his fingers, PLOG is seized by great good will and opens his arms. 
PLOG Come in my arms, little brother. 
JOF Thank you, thank you, perhaps later. But now we're really in a hurry. 
JOF climbs up on the wagon seat quickly and clucks at the horse. 
The small company is on its way towards the forest and the night. 
It is dark in the forest. 
First comes the KNIGHT on his large horse. Then JOF and MIA follow, sitting close to each other in the juggler's wagon. MIA holds her son in her arms. JONS follows them with his heavily laden horse. He has the smith in tow. The GIRL sits on top of the load on the horse's back, hunched over as if asleep. 
The footsteps, the horses' heavy tramp on the soft path, the human breathing -- yet it is quiet. 
Then the moon sails out of the clouds. The forest suddenly becomes alive with the night's unreality. The dazzling light pours through the thick foliage of the beech trees, a moving, quivering world of light and shadow. 
The wanderers stop. Their eyes are dark with anxiety and foreboding. Their faces are pale and unreal in the floating light. It is very quiet. 
PLOG Now the moon has come out of the clouds. 
JONS That's good. Now we can see the road better. 
SOLDIER Well, we've been paid. And this is a volunteer job. 
The SOLDIER speaks in whispers while glancing anxiously at the WITCH. 
KNIGHT (to the WITCH) What's your name? 
TYAN My name is Tyan, my lord. 
KNIGHT How old are you? 
TYAN Fourteen, my lord. 
KNIGHT And is it true that you have been in league with the Devil? 
TYAN nods quietly and looks away. Now they arrive at the parish border. At the foot of the nearby hills lies a crossroads. The pyre has already been stacked in the center of the forest clearing. The travelers remain there, hesitant and curious. 
The soldiers have tied up the cart horse and bring out two long wooden beams. They nail rungs across the beams so that it looks like a ladder. TYAN will be bound to this like an eelskin stretched out to dry. 
The sound of the hammering echoes through the forest. The KNIGHT has dismounted and walks closer to the cart. Again he tries to catch TYAN'S eyes, touches her very lightly as if to waken her. Slowly she turns her face towards him. 
KNIGHT They say that you have been in league with the Devil. 
TYAN Why do you ask? 
KNIGHT Not out of curiosity, but for very personal reasons. I too want to meet him. 
TYAN Why? 
KNIGHT I want to ask him about God. He, if anyone, must know. 
TYAN You can see him anytime. 
KNIGHT How? 
TYAN You must do as I tell you. 
The KNIGHT grips the wooden rail of the cart so tightly that his knuckles whiten. TYAN leans forward and joins her gaze with his. 
TYAN Look into my eyes. 
The KNIGHT meets her gaze. They stare at each other for a long time. 
TYAN What do you see? Do you see him? 
When they have fastened her, they walk over to light the pyre. The KNIGHT steps up and leans over her. 
JONS For a moment I thought of killing the soldiers, but it would do no good. She's nearly dead already. 
One of the soldiers approaches. Thick smoke wells down from the pyre and sweeps over the quiet shadows near the crossroads and the hill. 
SOLDIER I've told you to be careful. Don't go too close to her. 
The KNIGHT doesn't heed this warning. He cups his hand, fills it with water from the skin and gives it to TYAN. Then he gives her a potion. 
KNIGHT Take this and it will stop the pain. 
Smoke billows down over them and they begin to cough. The soldiers step forward and raise the ladder against a nearby fir tree. TYAN hangs there motionlessly, her eyes wide open. 
The KNIGHT straightens up and stands immobile. JONS is behind him, his voice nearly choked with rage. 
JONS What does she see? Can you tell me? 
KNIGHT (shakes his head) She feels no more pain. 
JONS You don't answer my question. Who watches over that child? Is it the angels, or God, or the Devil, or only the emptiness? Emptiness, my lord! 
KNIGHT This cannot be. 
JONS Look at her eyes, my lord. Her poor brain has just made a discovery. Emptiness under the moon. 
KNIGHT No. 
JONS We stand powerless, our arms hanging at our sides, because we see what she sees, and our terror and hers are the same. (an outburst) That poor little child. I can't stand it, I can't stand it ... 
His voice sticks in his throat and he suddenly walks away. The KNIGHT mounts his horse. The travelers depart from the crossroads. TYAN finally closes her eyes. 
The forest is now very dark. The road winds between the trees. The wagon squeaks and rattles over stones and roots. A bird suddenly shrieks. 
JOF lifts his head and wakes up. He has been asleep with his arms around MIA's shoulders. The KNIGHT is sharply silhouetted against the tree trunks. 
His silence makes him seem almost unreal. JONS and PLOG are slightly drunk and support each other. Suddenly PLOG has to sit down. He puts his hands over his face and howls piteously. 
PLOG Oh, now it came over me again! 
JONS Don't scream. What came over you? 
PLOG My wife, damn it. She is so beautiful. She is so beautiful that she can't be described without the accompaniment of a lyre. 
LISA He is only a false beard, false teeth, false smiles, rehearsed lines, and he's as empty as a jug. Just kill him. 
LISA sobs with excitement and sorrow. PLOG looks around, a little confused. SKAT uses this opportunity. He pulls out a dagger and places the point against his breast. 
SKAT She's right. Just kill me. If you thought that I was going to apologize for being what I am, you are mistaken. 
LISA Look how sickening he is. How he makes a fool of himself, how he puts on an act. Dear Plog, kill him. 
SKAT My friends, you have only to push, and my unreality will soon be transformed into a new, solid reality. An absolutely tangible corpse. 
LISA Do something then. Kill him. 
PLOG (embarrassed) He has to fight me, otherwise I can't kill him. 
SKAT Your life's thread now hangs by a very ragged shred. Idiot, your day is short. 
PLOG You'll have to irritate me a little more to get me as angry as before. 
SKAT looks at the travelers with a pained expression and then lifts his eyes towards the night sky. 
SKAT I forgive all of you. Pray for me sometimes. 
SKAT sinks the dagger into his breast and slowly falls to the ground. The travelers stand confused. PLOG rushes forward and begins to pull at SKAT'S hands. 
PLOG Oh dear, dear, I didn't mean it that way! Look, there's no life left in him. I was beginning to like him, and in my opinion Lisa was much too spiteful. 
JOF leans over his colleague. 
JOF He's dead, totally, enormously dead. In fact, I've never seen such a dead actor. 
LISA Come on, let's go. This is nothing to mourn over. He has only himself to blame. 
PLOG And I have to be married to her. 
JONS We must go on. 
SKAT lies in the grass and keeps the dagger pressed tightly to his breast. The travelers depart and soon they have disappeared into the dark forest on the other side of the meadow. When SKAT is sure that no one can see him, he sits up and lifts the dagger from his breast. It is a stage dagger with a blade that pushes into the handle. SKAT laughs to himself. 
SKAT Now that was a good scene. I'm really a good actor. After all, why shouldn't I be a little pleased with myself? But where shall I go? I'll wait until it becomes light and then I'll find the easiest way out of the forest. I'll climb up a tree for the time being so that no bears, wolves or ghosts can get at me. 
He soon finds a likely tree and climbs up into its thick foliage. He sits down as comfortably as possible and reaches for his food pouch. 
SKAT (yawns) Tomorrow I'll find Jof and Mia and then we'll go to the saints' feast in Elsinore. We'll make lots of money there. (yawns) Now, I'll sing a little song to myself: (sings) I am a little bird Who sings whate'er he will, And when I am in danger I fling out a pissing trill As in the carnal thrill. (speaks) It's boring to be alone in the forest tonight. (sings) The terrible night doesn't frighten me ... 
SKAT Perhaps you'll take a bribe. 
DEATH saws. 
SKAT Help! 
DEATH saws. 
SKAT Help! Help! 
The tree falls. The forest becomes silent again. 
Night and then dawn. 
The travelers have come to a sort of clearing and have collapsed on the moss. They lie quietly and listen to their own breathing, their heartbeats, and the wind in the tree tops. Here the forest is wild and impenetrable. Huge boulders stick up out of the ground like the heads of black giants. A fallen tree lies like a mighty barrier between light and shadow. 
MIA, JOF and their child have sat down apart from the others. They look at the light of the moon, which is no longer full and dead but mysterious and unstable. The KNIGHT sits bent over his chess game. LISA cries quietly behind PLOG'S back. JONS lies on the ground and looks up at the heavens. 
JONS Soon dawn will come, but the heat continues to hang over us like a smothering blanket. 
LISA I'm so frightened. 
PLOG We feel that something is going to happen to us, but we don't know what. 
JONS Maybe it's the day of judgment. 
PLOG The day of judgment ... 
Now, something moves behind the fallen tree. There is a rustling sound and a moaning cry that seems to come from a wounded animal. Everyone listens intently, all faces turned towards the sound. A voice comes out of the darkness. 
RAVAL Do you have some water? 
RAVAL'S perspiring face soon becomes visible. He disappears in the darkness, but his voice is heard again. 
RAVAL Can't you give me a little water? (pause) I have the plague. 
JONS Don't come here. If you do I'll slit your throat. Keep to the other side of the tree. 
RAVEL I'm afraid of death. 
No one answers. There is complete silence. RAVAL gasps heavily for air. The dry leaves rustle with his movements. 
RAVEL I don't want to die! I don't want to! 
MIA What do you see? 
JOF The knight is sitting over there playing chess. 
MIA Yes, I can see that too and I don't think it's so terrible. 
JOF But do you see who he's playing with? 
MIA He is alone. You mustn't frighten me this way. 
JOF No, no, he isn't alone. 
MIA Who is it, then? 
JOF Death. He is sitting there playing chess with Death himself. 
MIA You mustn't say that. 
JOF We must try to escape. 
MIA One can't do that. 
JOF We must try. They are so occupied with their game that if we move very quietly, they won't notice us. 
JOF gets up carefully and disappears into the darkness behind the trees. MIA remains standing, as if paralyzed by fear. She stares fixedly at the KNIGHT and the chess game. She holds her son in her arms. Now JOF returns. 
JOF I have harnessed the horse. The wagon is standing near the big tree. You go first and I'll follow you with the packs. See that Mikael doesn't wake up. 
MIA does what JOF has told her. At the same moment, the KNIGHT looks up from his game. 
DEATH It is your move, Antonius Block. 
The KNIGHT remains silent. He sees MIA go through the moonlight towards the wagon. JOF bends down to pick up the pack and follows at a distance. 
DEATH Have you lost interest in our game? 
The KNIGHT'S eyes become alarmed. DEATH looks at him intently. 
KNIGHT Lost interest? On the contrary. 
DEATH You seem anxious. Are you hiding anything? 
KNIGHT Nothing escapes you -- or does it? 
JOF It's probably rain. 
MIA No, it isn't rain. He has seen us and he's following us. He has overtaken us; he's coming towards us. 
JOF Not yet, Mia. In any case, not yet. 
MIA I'm so afraid. I'm so afraid. 
The wagon rattles over roots and stones; it sways and creaks. Now the horse stops with his ears flat against his head. The forest sighs and stirs ponderously. 
JOF Get into the wagon, Mia. Crawl in quickly. We'll lie down, Mia, with Mikael between us. 
They crawl into the wagon and crouch around the sleeping child. 
JOF It is the Angel of Death that's passing over us, Mia. It's the Angel of Death. The Angel of Death, and he's very big. 
MIA Do you feel how cold it is? I'm freezing. I'm terribly cold. 
She shivers as if she had a fever. They pull the blankets over them and lie closely together. The wagon canvas flutters and beats in the wind. The roar outside is like a giant bellowing. 
The castle is silhouetted like a black boulder against the heavy dawn. Now the storm moves there, throwing itself powerfully against walls and abutments.  The sky darkens; it is almost like night. 
Antonius Block has brought his companions with him to the castle. But it seems deserted. They walk from room to room. There is only emptiness and quiet echoes. Outside, the rain is heard roaring noisily. 
Suddenly the KNIGHT stands face to face with his wife. They look at each other quietly. 
KARIN I heard from people who came from the crusade that you were on your way home. I've been waiting for you here. All the others have fled from the plague. 
The KNIGHT is silent. He looks at her. 
KARIN Don't you recognize me any more? 
The KNIGHT nods, silent. 
KARIN You also have changed. 
She walks closer and looks searchingly into his face. The smile lingers in her eyes and she touches his hand lightly. 
KARIN Now I can see that it's you. Somewhere in your eyes, somewhere in your face, but hidden and frightened, is that boy who went away so many years ago. 
KNIGHT It's over now and I'm a little tired. 
KARIN I see that you're tired. 
