ShawShank Redemption 
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION 
by 
Frank Darabont 
Based upon the story Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King 
1	INT -- CABIN -- NIGHT (1946) 
A dark, empty room. 
The door bursts open. A MAN and WOMAN enter, drunk and giggling, horny as hell. No sooner is the door shut than they're all over each other, ripping at clothes, pawing at flesh, mouths locked together. 
He gropes for a lamp, tries to turn it on, knocks it over instead. Hell with it. He's got more urgent things to do, like getting her blouse open and his hands on her breasts. She arches, moaning, fumbling with his fly. He slams her against the wall, ripping her skirt. We hear fabric tear. 
He enters her right then and there, roughly, up against the wall. She cries out, hitting her head against the wall but not caring, grinding against him, clawing his back, shivering with the sensations running through her. He carries her across the room with her legs wrapped around him. They fall onto the bed. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK, exiting through the window, traveling smoothly outside... 
2	EXT -- CABIN -- NIGHT (1946) 2 
...to reveal the bungalow, remote in a wooded area, the lovers' cries spilling into the night... 
...and we drift down a wooded path, the sounds of rutting passion growing fainter, mingling now with the night sounds of crickets and hoot owls... 
...and we begin to hear FAINT MUSIC in the woods, tinny and incongruous, and still we keep PULLING BACK until... 
...a car is revealed. A 1946 Plymouth. Parked in a clearing. 
3	INT -- PLYMOUTH -- NIGHT (1946) 3 
ANDY DUFRESNE, mid-20's, wire rim glasses, three-piece suit. Under normal circumstances a respectable, solid citizen; hardly dangerous, perhaps even meek. But these circumstances are far from normal. He is disheveled, unshaven, and very drunk. A cigarette smolders in his mouth. His eyes, flinty and hard, are riveted to the bungalow up the path. 
He can hear them fucking from here. 
He raises a bottle of bourbon and knocks it back. The radio plays softly, painfully romantic, taunting him: 
You stepped out of a dream... You are too wonderful... To be what you seem... 
He opens the glove compartment, pulls out an object wrapped in a rag. He lays it in his lap and unwraps it carefully -- 
-- revealing a .38 revolver. Oily, black, evil. 
He grabs a box of bullets. Spills them everywhere, all over the seats and floor. Clumsy. He picks bullets off his lap, loading them into the gun, one by one, methodical and grim. Six in the chamber. His gaze goes back to the bungalow. 
He shuts off the radio. Abrupt silence, except for the distant lovers' moans. He takes another shot of bourbon courage, then opens the door and steps from the car. 
4	EXT -- PLYMOUTH -- NIGHT (1946) 4 
His wingtip shoes crunch on gravel. Loose bullets scatter to the ground. The bourbon bottle drops and shatters. 
He starts up the path, unsteady on his feet. The closer he gets, the louder the lovemaking becomes. Louder and more frenzied. The lovers are reaching a climax, their sounds of passion degenerating into rhythmic gasps and grunts. 
WOMAN (O.S.) Oh god...oh god...oh god... 
Andy lurches to a stop, listening. The woman cries out in orgasm. The sound slams into Andy's brain like an icepick. He shuts his eyes tightly, wishing the sound would stop. 
It finally does, dying away like a siren until all that's left is the shallow gasping and panting of post-coitus. We hear languorous laughter, moans of satisfaction. 
WOMAN (O.S.) Oh god...that's sooo good...you're the best...the best I ever had... 
Andy just stands and listens, devastated. He doesn't look like much of a killer now; he's just a sad little man on a dirt path in the woods, tears streaming down his face, a loaded gun held loosely at his side. A pathetic figure, really. 
FADE TO BLACK: 1ST TITLE UP 
5	INT -- COURTROOM -- DAY (1946) 5 
THE JURY listens like a gallery of mannequins on display, pale-faced and stupefied. 
D.A. (O.S.) Mr. Dufresne, describe the confrontation you had with your wife the night she was murdered. 
ANDY DUFRESNE 
is on the witness stand, hands folded, suit and tie pressed, hair meticulously combed. He speaks in soft, measured tones: 
ANDY It was very bitter. She said she was glad I knew, that she hated all the sneaking around. She said she wanted a divorce in Reno. 
D.A. What was your response? 
ANDY I told her I would not grant one. 
D.A. (refers to his notes) I'll see you in Hell before I see you in Reno. Those were the words you used, Mr. Dufresne, according to the testimony of your neighbors. 
JUDGE You strike me as a particularly icy and remorseless man, Mr. Dufresne. It chills my blood just to look at you. By the power vested in me by the State of Maine, I hereby order you to serve two life sentences, back to back, one for each of your victims. So be it. 
He raps his gavel as we 
CRASH TO BLACK: LAST TITLE UP. 
9 	AN IRON-BARRED DOOR 9 
slides open with an enormous CLANG. A stark room waits beyond. CAMERA PUSHES through. SEVEN HUMORLESS MEN sit side by side at a long table. An empty chair faces them. We are now in: 
INT -- SHAWSHANK HEARINGS ROOM -- DAY (1947) 
RED enters, removes his cap and waits by the chair. 
MAN #1 Sit. 
Red sits, tries not to slouch. The chair is uncomfortable. 
MAN #2 We see by your file you've served twenty years of a life sentence. 
MAN #3 You feel you've been rehabilitated? 
RED Yes, sir. Absolutely. I've learned my lesson. I can honestly say I'm a changed man. I'm no longer a danger to society. That's the God's honest truth. No doubt about it. 
The men just stare at him. One stifles a yawn. 
CLOSEUP -- PAROLE FORM 
A big rubber stamp slams down: "REJECTED" in red ink. 
10	EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DUSK (1947) 10 
High stone walls topped with snaky concertina wire, set off at intervals by looming guard towers. Over a hundred CONS are in the yard. Playing catch, shooting craps, jawing at each other, making deals. Exercise period. 
RED emerges into fading daylight, slouches low-key through the activity, worn cap on his head, exchanging hellos and doing minor business. He's an important man here. 
RED (V.O.) There's a con like me in every prison in America, I guess. I'm the guy who can get it for you. Cigarettes, a bag of reefer if you're partial, a bottle of brandy to celebrate your kid's high school graduation. Damn near anything, within reason. 
He slips somebody a pack of smokes, smooth sleight-of-hand. 
RED (V.O.) Yes sir, I'm a regular Sears & Roebuck. 
TWO SHORT SIREN BLASTS issue from the main tower, drawing everybody's attention to the loading dock. The outer gate swings open...revealing a gray prison bus outside. 
RED (V.O.) So when Andy Dufresne came to me in 1949 and asked me to smuggle Rita Hayworth into the prison for him, I told him no problem. And it wasn't. 
CON Fresh fish! Fresh fish today! 
Red is joined by HEYWOOD, SKEET, FLOYD, JIGGER, ERNIE, SNOOZE. Most cons crowd to the fence to gawk and jeer, but Red and his group mount the bleachers and settle in comfortably. 
11	INT -- PRISON BUS -- DUSK (1947) 11 
Andy sits in back, wearing steel collar and chains. 
RED (V.O.) Andy came to Shawshank Prison in early 1947 for murdering his wife and the fella she was bangin'. 
The bus lurches forward, RUMBLES through the gates. Andy gazes around, swallowed by prison walls. 
RED (V.O.) On the outside, he'd been vice- president of a large Portland bank. Good work for a man as young as he was, when you consider how conservative banks were back then. 
TOWER GUARD All clear! 
GUARDS approach the bus with carbines. The door jerks open. The new fish disembark, chained together single-file, blinking sourly at their surroundings. Andy stumbles against the MAN in front of him, almost drags him down. 
BYRON HADLEY, captain of the guard, slams his baton into Andy's back. Andy goes to his knees, gasping in pain. JEERS and SHOUTS from the spectators. 
HADLEY On your feet before I fuck you up so bad you never walk again. 
13 	ON THE BLEACHERS 13 
RED There they are, boys. The Human Charm Bracelet. 
HEYWOOD Never seen such a sorry-lookin' heap of maggot shit in my life. 
JIGGER Comin' from you, Heywood, you being so pretty and all... 
FLOYD Takin' bets today, Red? 
RED (pulls notepad and pencil) Bear Catholic? Pope shit in the woods? Smokes or coin, bettor's choice. 
FLOYD Smokes. Put me down for two. 
RED High roller. Who's your horse? 
FLOYD That gangly sack of shit, third from the front. He'll be the first. 
Red listens to the CLANGING below. He watches Andy and a few others being brought up to the 2nd tier. 
RED (V.O.) Most new fish come close to madness the first night. Somebody always breaks down crying. Happens every time. The only question is, who's it gonna be? 
Andy is led past and given a cell at the end of the tier. 
RED (V.O.) It's as good a thing to bet on as any, I guess. I had my money on Andy Dufresne... 
18	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 18 
The bars slam home. Andy is alone in his cell, clutching his clothes. He gazes around at his new surroundings, taking it in. He slowly begins to dress himself... 
19	EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- NIGHT (1947) 19 
A malignant stone growth on the Maine landscape. The moon hangs low and baleful in a dead sky. The headlight of a PASSING TRAIN cuts through the night. 
20	INT -- RED'S CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 20 
Red lies on his bunk below us, tossing his baseball toward the ceiling and catching it again. He pauses, listening. FOOTSTEPS approach below, unhurried, echoing hollowly on stone. 
21	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT (1947) 21 
LOW ANGLE. A CELLBLOCK GUARD strolls into frame. 
GUARD That's lights out! Good night, ladies. 
The lights bump off in sequence. The guard exits, footsteps echoing away. Darkness now. Silence. CAMERA CRANES UP the tiers toward Red's cell. 
RED (V.O.) I remember my first night. Seems a long time ago now. 
Red looms from the darkness, leans on the bars. Listens. Waits. From somewhere below comes faint, ghastly tittering. VOICES drift through the cellblock, taunting: 
VARIOUS VOICES (O.S.) Fishee fishee fisheeee...You're gonna like it here, new fish. A whooole lot...Make you wish your daddies never dicked your mommies...You takin' this down, new fish? Gonna be a quiz later. (somebody LAUGHS) Sshhh. Keep it down. The screws'll hear...Fishee fishee fisheeee... 
RED (V.O.) The boys always go fishin' with first-timers...and they don't quit till they reel someone in. 
The VOICES keep on, sly and creepy in the dark... 
22	INT -- VARIOUS CELLS -- NIGHT (1947) 22 thru thru 25 2g ...while the new cons go quietly crazy in their cells. One man paces like a caged animal...another sits gnawing his cuticles bloody...a third is weeping silently...a fourth is dry-heaving into the toilet... 
26	INT -- RED'S CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 26 
Red waits at the bars. Smoking. Listening. He cranes his head, peers down toward Andy's cell. Nothing. Not a peep. 
HEYWOOD (O.S.) Fat-Ass...oh, Faaaat-Ass. Talk to me, boy. I know you're in there. I can hear you breathin'. Now don't you listen to these nitwits, hear? 
27	INT -- FAT-ASS' CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 27 
Fat-Ass is crying, trying not to hyperventilate. 
HEYWOOD (O.S.) This ain't such a bad place. I'll introduce you around, make you feel right at home. I know some big ol' bull queers who'd love to make your acquaintance...especially that big white mushy butt of yours... 
And that's it. Fat-Ass lets out a LOUD WAIL of despair: 
FAT-ASS OH GOD! I DON'T BELONG HERE! I WANNA GO HOME! 
28	INT -- HEYWOOD'S CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 28 
HEYWOOD AND IT'S FAT-ASS BY A NOSE.' 
29	INT -- CELLBLOCK -- NIGHT (1947) 29 
The place goes nuts. Fat-Ass throws himself screaming against the bars. The entire block starts CHANTING: 
VOICES Fresh fish...fresh fish...fresh fish...fresh fish... 
FAT-ASS I WANNA GO HOME! I WANT MY MOTHER.' 
VOICE (O.S.) I had your mother! She wasn't that great! 
The lights bump on. GUARDS pour in, led by Hadley himself. 
HADLEY What the Christ is this happy shit? 
VOICE (O.S.) He took the Lord's name in vain! I'm tellin' the warden! 
HADLEY (to the unseen wit) You'll be tellin' him with my baton up your ass! 
Hadley arrives at Fat-Ass' cell, bellowing through the bars: 
HADLEY What's your malfunction you fat fuckin' barrel of monkey-spunk? 
FAT-ASS PLEASE! THIS AIN'T RIGHT! I AIN'T SUPPOSED TO BE HERE! NOT ME! 
HADLEY I ain't gonna count to three! Not even to one! Now shut the fuck up 'fore I sing you a lullabye! 
You're some sweet punk. You been broke in yet? 
Andy tries to step past them. He gets shoved around, nothing serious, just some slap and tickle. Jackals sizing up prey. 
BOGS Hard to get. I like that. 
Andy breaks free, flushed and shaking. He hurries off, leaving the three Sisters laughing. 
35	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1947) 35 
Andy lies staring at the darkness, unable to sleep. 
36	EXT -- EXERCISE YARD -- DAY (1947) 36 
Exercise period. Red plays catch with Heywood and Jigger, lazily tossing a baseball around. Red notices Andy off to the side. Nods hello. Andy takes this as a cue to amble over. Heywood and Jigger pause, watching. 
ANDY (offers his hand) Hello. I'm Andy Dufresne. 
Red glances at the hand, ignores it. The game continues. 
RED The wife-killin' banker. 
ANDY How do you know that? 
RED I keep my ear to the ground. Why'd you do it? 
ANDY I didn't, since you ask. 
RED Hell, you'll fit right in, then. (off Andy's look) Everyone's innocent in here, don't you know that? Heywood! What are you in for, boy? 
HEYWOOD Didn't do it! Lawyer fucked me! 
Red gives Andy a look. See? 
ANDY What else have you heard? 
RED People say you're a cold fish. They say you think your shit smells sweeter than ordinary. That true? 
ANDY What do you think? 
RED Ain't made up my mind yet. 
Heywood nudges Jigger. Watch this. He winds up and throws the ball hard -- right at Andy's head. Andy sees it coming out of the corner of his eye, whirls and catches it. Beat. He sends the ball right back, zinging it into Heywood's hands. Heywood drops the ball and grimaces, wringing his stung hands. 
ANDY I understand you're a man who knows how to get things. 
RED I'm known to locate certain things from time to time. They seem to fall into my hands. Maybe it's 'cause I'm Irish. 
ANDY I wonder if you could get me a rock-hammer? 
RED What is it and why? 
ANDY You make your customers' motives a part of your business? 
RED If you wanted a toothbrush, I wouldn't ask questions. I'd just quote a price. A toothbrush, see, is a non-lethal sort of object. 
ANDY Fair enough. A rock-hammer is about eight or nine inches long. Looks like a miniature pickaxe, with a small sharp pick on one end, and a blunt hammerhead on the other. It's for rocks. 
RED Rocks. 
Andy squats, motions Red to join him. Andy grabs a handful of dirt and sifts it through his hands. He finds a pebble and rubs it clean. It has a nice milky glow. He tosses it to Red. 
RED Quartz? 
ANDY Quartz, sure. And look. Mica. Shale. Silted granite. There's some graded limestone, from when they cut this place out of the hill. 
RED So? 
ANDY I'm a rockhound. At least I was, in my old life. I'd like to be again, on a limited scale. 
RED Yeah, that or maybe plant your toy in somebody's skull? 
ANDY I have no enemies here. 
RED No? Just wait. 
Red flicks his gaze past Andy. Bogs is watching them. 
RED Word gets around. The Sisters have taken a real shine to you, yes they have. Especially Bogs. 
ANDY Tell me something. Would it help if I explained to them I'm not homosexual? 
RED Neither are they. You have to be human first. They don't qualify. (off Andy's look) Bull queers take by force, that's all they want or understand. I'd grow eyes in the back of my head if I were you. 
ANDY Thanks for the advice. 
HEYWOOD Oh God, he's gonna do it, he's gonna throw him off the roof... 
SNOOZE Oh shit, oh fuck, oh Jesus... 
ANDY Because if you do trust her, there's no reason in the world you can't keep every cent of that money. 
Hadley abruptly jerks Andy to a stop right at the edge. In fact, Andy's past the edge, beyond his balance, shoetips scraping the roof. The only thing between him and an ugly drop to the concrete is Hadley's grip on the front of his shirt. 
HADLEY You better start making sense. 
ANDY If you want to keep that money, all of it, just give it to your wife. See, the IRS allows you a one-time- only gift to your spouse. It's good up to sixty thousand dollars. 
HADLEY Naw, that ain't right! Tax free? 
ANDY Tax free. IRS can't touch one cent. 
The cons are pausing work, stunned by this business discussion. 
HADLEY You're the smart banker what shot his wife. Why should I believe a smart banker like you? So's I can wind up in here with you? 
ANDY It's perfectly legal. Go ask the IRS, they'll say the same thing. Actually, I feel silly telling you all this. I'm sure you would have investigated the matter yourself. 
HADLEY Fuckin'-A. I don't need no smart wife-killin' banker to show me where the bear shit in the buckwheat. 
ANDY Of course not. But you will need somebody to set up the tax-free gift, and that'll cost you. A lawyer, for example... 
HADLEY Ambulance-chaaing, highway-robbing cocksuckers! 
ANDY ...or come to think of it, I suppose I could set it up for you. That would save you some money. I'll write down the forms you need, you can pick them up, and I'll prepare them for your signature... nearly free of charge. (off Hadley's look) I'd only ask three beers apiece for my co-workers, if that seems fair. 
TROUT (guffawing) Co-workers! Get him! That's rich, ain't it? Co-workers... 
Hadley freezes him with a look. Andy presses on: 
ANDY I think a nan working outdoors feels more like a man if he can have a bottle of suds. That's only my opinion. 
The convicts stand gaping, all pretense of work gone. They look like they've been pole-axed. Hadley shoots them a look. 
HADLEY What are you jimmies starin' at? Back to work, goddamn it! 
59	EXT -- LICENSE PLATE FACTORY -- DAY (1949) 59 
As before, an object is hauled up the side of the building by rope -- only this time, it's a cooler of beer and ice. 
RED (V.O.) And that's how it came to pass, that on the second-to-last day of the job, the convict crew that tarred the plate factory roof in the spring of '49... 
60	EXT -- ROOF -- SHORTLY LATER (1949) 60 
The cons are taking the sun and drinking beer. 
RED (V.O.) ...wound up sitting in a row at ten o'clock in the morning, drinking icy cold Black Label beer courtesy of the hardest screw that ever walked a turn at Shawshank State Prison. 
HADLEY Drink up, boys. While it's cold. 
RED (V.O.) The colossal prick even managed to sound magnanimous. 
Red knocks back another sip, enjoying the bitter cold on his tongue and the warm sun on face. 
RED (V.O.) We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders, and felt like free men. We could'a been tarring the 
roof of one of our own houses. We were the Lords of all Creation. 
He glances over to Andy squatting apart from the others. 
RED (V.O.) As for Andy, he spent that break hunkered in the shade, a strange little smile on his face, watching us drink his beer. 
HEYWOOD (approaches with a beer) Here's a cold one, Andy. 
ANDY No thanks. I gave up drinking. 
Heywood drifts back to others, giving them a look. 
RED (V.O.) You could argue he'd done it to curry favor with the guards. Or maybe make a few friends among us cons. Me, I think he did it just to feel normal again...if only for a short while. 
61	EXT -- PRISON YARD -- THE BLEACHERS -- DAY (1949) 61 
Andy and Red play checkers. Red makes his move. 
RED King me. 
ANDY Chess. Now there's a game of kings. Civilized...strategic... 
RED ...and totally fuckin' inexplicable. Hate that game. 
ANDY Maybe you'll let me teach you someday. I've been thinking of getting a board together. 
ANDY Rita Hayworth. Can you get her? 
RED No problem. Take a few weeks. 
ANDY Weeks? 
RED Don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. Relax. What are you so nervous about? She's just a woman. 
Andy nods, embarrassed. He gets up and hurries out. Red grins, turns back to the movie. 
65	INT -- AUDITORIUM CORRIDOR -- NIGHT (1949) 65 
Andy exits the theater and freezes in his tracks. Two dark figures loom in the corridor, blocking his path. Rooster and Pete. Andy turns back -- and runs right into Bogs. Instant bear hug. The Sisters are on him like a flash. They kick a door open and drag him into -- 
66 	THE PROJECTION BOOTH 66 
-- where they confront the startled PROJECTIONIST, an old con blinking at them through thick bifocals. 
BOGS Take a walk. 
PROJECTIONIST I have to change reels. 
BOGS I said fuck off. 
Terrified, the old man darts past and out the door. Pete slams and locks it. Bogs shoves Andy to the center of the room. 
BOGS Ain't you gonna scream? 
Andy sighs, cocks his head at the projector. 
ANDY They'd never hear me over that. Let's get this over with. 
Seemingly resigned, Andy turns around, leans on the rewind bench -- and curls his fingers around a full 1.000 foot reel of 35mm film. Rooster licks his lips, pushes past the others. 
ROOSTER Me first. 
ANDY Okay. 
Andy whips the reel of film around in a vicious arc, smashing it into Rooster's face and bouncing him off the wall. 
ROOSTER Fuck! Shit! He broke my nose! 
Andy fights like hell, but is soon overpowered and forced to his knees. Bogs steps to Andy, pulls out an awl with a vicious eight-inch spike, gives him a good long look at it. 
BOGS Now I'm gonna open my fly, and you're gonna swallow what I give you to swallow. And when you d mine, you gonna swallow Rooster's. You done broke his nose, so he ought to have somethin' to show for it. 
ANDY Anything you put in my mouth, you're going to lose. 
BOGS You don't understand. You do that, I'll put all eight inches of this steel ii your ear. 
ANDY Okay. But you should know that sudden serious brain injury causes the victim to bite down. Hard. (faint smile) In fact, I understand the bite-reflex is so strong the victim's jaws have to be pried open with a crowbar. 
The Sisters consider this carefully. The film runs out of the projector, flapping on the reel. The screen goes white. 
BOGS You little fuck. 
Andy gets a bootheel in the face. The Sisters start kicking and beating the living shit out of him with anything they can get their hands on. In the theater, the convicts are CHANTING AND CLAPPING for the movie to come back on. 
RED (V.O.) Bogs didn't put anything in Andy's mouth, and neither did his friends. What they did do is beat him within an inch of his life... 
67	INT -- INFIRMARY -- DAY (1949) 67 
Andy lies wrapped in bandages. 
RED (V.O.) Andy spent a month in traction. 
68	INT -- SOLITARY CONFINEMENT -- DAY (1949) 68 
RED (V.O.) Bogs spent a week in the hole. 
Bogs sits on bare concrete. The steel door slides open. 
GUARD Time's up, Bogs. 
69	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- 3RD TIER -- DUSK (1949) 69 
Bogs comes up the stairs, smoking a cigarette. Not many cons around; the place is virtually deserted. A VOICE echoes dimly over the P.A. system: 
VOICE (O.S.) Return to your cellblocks for evening count. 
Bogs enters his cell. Dark in here. He fumbles for the light cord, yanks it. The sudden light reveals Captain Hadley six inches from his face, waiting for him. Mert steps in behind Bogs. hemming him. 
Before Bogs can even open his mouth to say "what the fuck," Hadley rams the tip of his baton brutally into his solar plexus. Bogs doubles over, gagging his wind out. 
70 	GROUND FLOOR 70 
81	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT (1949) 81 
Andy, limping a bit, returns from the infirmary. Red watches from his cell as Andy is brought up and locked away. 
82	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1949) 82 
Andy finds the cardboard tube lying on his bunk. 
GUARD (O.S.) Lights out! 
The lights go off. Andy opens the tube and pulls out a large rolled poster. He lets it uncurl to the floor. A small scrap of paper flutters out, landing at his feet. The poster is the famous Rita Hayworth pin-up -- one hand behind her head, eyes half closed, sulky lips parted. Andy picks up the scrap of paper. It reads: "No charge. Welcome back." Alone in the dark, Andy smiles. 
83	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- MORNING (1949) 83 
The BUZZER SOUNDS, the cells SLAM OPEN. Cons step from their cells. Andy catches Red's eye, nods his thanks. As the men shuffle down to breakfast, Red glances into Andy's cell -- 
84 	RED'S POV -- DOLLYING PAST 84 
-- and sees Rita in her new place of honor on Andy's wall. Sunlight casts a harsh barred shadow across her lovely face. 
85	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT (1949) 85 
Ernie is mopping the floor. He glances back and sees Warden Norton approach the cellblock with an entourage of a DOZEN GUARDS. Still mopping, Ernie mutters to the nearest cell: 
ERNIE Heads up. They're tossin' cells. 
Word travels fast from cell to cell. Cons scramble to tidy up and hide things. Norton enters, nods to his men. The guards pair off in all directions, making their choices at random. 
GUARD What kind'a contraband you hiding in there, boy? 
Cells are opened, occupants displaced, items scattered, mattresses overturned. Whatever contraband is found gets tossed out onto the cellblock floor. Mostly harmless stuff. 
A GUARD pulls a sharpened screwdriver out of a mattress, shoots a nasty look at the CON responsible. 
NORTON Solitary. A week. Make sure he takes his Bible. 
CON Too goddamn dark to read down there. 
NORTON Add another week for blasphemy. 
The man is taken away. Norton's gaze goes up. 
NORTON Let's try the second tier. 
86 	2ND TIER 86 
Norton arrives, makes a thin show of picking a cell at random. He motions at Andy on his bunk, reading his Bible. The door is unlocked. Norton enters, trailed by his men. Andy rises. 
ANDY Good evening. 
Norton gives a curt nod. Hadley and Trout start tossing the cell in a thorough search. Norton keeps his eyes on Andy, looking for a wrong glance or nervous blink. He takes the Bible out of Andy's hand. 
NORTON I'm pleased to see you reading this. Any favorite passages? 
ANDY Watch ye therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh. 
NORTON (smiles) Luke. Chapter 13, verse 35. I've always liked that one. (strolls the cell) But I prefer: "I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." 
ANDY John. Chapter 8, verse 12. 
NORTON I hear you're good with numbers. How nice. A man should have a skill. 
HADLEY You wanna explain this? 
Andy glances over. Hadley is holding up a rock blanket, a polishing cloth roughly the size of an oven mitt. 
ANDY It's called a rock blanket. It's for shaping and polishing rocks. Little hobby of mine. 
Hadley glances at the rocks lining the window sill, turns to Norton. 
HADLEY Looks pretty clean. Some contraband here, nothing to get in a twist over. 
Norton nods, strolls to the poster of Rita. 
NORTON I can't say I approve of this... (turns to Andy) ...but I suppose exceptions can always be made. 
Norton exits, the guards follow. The cell door is slammed and locked. Norton pauses, turns back. 
NORTON I almost forgot. 
He reaches through the bars and returns the Bible to Andy. 
NORTON I'd hate to deprive you of this. Salvation lies within. 
Norton and his men walk away. 
FLOYD He didn't say that! 
BROOKS God is my witness. And Dekins, he just blinks for a second, then laughs his ass off. Afterward, he actually shook Andy's hand. 
HEYWOOD My ass! 
BROOKS Shook his fuckin' hand. Just about shit myself. All Andy needed was a suit and tie, a jiggly little hula girl on his desk, he would'a been Mister Dufresne, if you please. 
RED Makin' yourself some friends, Andy. 
ANDY I wouldn't say "friends." I'm a convicted murderer who provides sound financial planning. That's a wonderful pet to have. 
RED Got you out of the laundry, didn't it? 
ANDY Maybe it can do more than that. (off their looks) How about expanding the library? Get some new books in there. 
HEYWOOD How you 'spect to do that, "Mr. Dufresne-if-you-please?" 
ANDY Ask the warden for funds. 
LAUGHTER all around. Andy blinks at them. 
BROOKS Son, I've had six wardens through here during my tenure, and I have learned one great immutable truth of the universe: ain't one of 'em been born whose asshole don't pucker up tight as a snare drum when you ask for funds. 
93	INT -- MAIN BUILDING HALLWAY -- DAY (1949) 93 
DOLLYING Norton and Andy up the hall: 
NORTON Not a dime. My budget's stretched thin as it is. 
ANDY I see. Perhaps I could write to the State Senate and request funds directly from them. 
NORTON Far as them Republican boys in Augusta are concerned, there's only three ways to spend the taxpayer's hard-earned when it come to prisons. More walls. More bars. More guards. 
ANDY Still, I'd like to try, with your permission. I'll send a letter a week. They can't ignore me forever. 
NORTON They sure can, but you write your letters if it makes you happy. I'll even mail 'em for you, how's that? 
94	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1949) 94 
Andy is on his bunk, writing a letter. 
RED (V.O.) So Andy started writing a letter a week, just like he said. 
95	INT -- GUARD DESK/NORTON'S OUTER OFFICE -- DAY (1949) 95 
Andy pops his head in. The GUARD shakes his head. 
RED (V.O.) And just like Norton said, Andy got no answers. But still he kept on. 
96	INT -- PRISON LIBRARY/ANDY'S OFFICE -- DAY (1950) 96 
Andy is doing taxes. Mert Entwhistle is seated across from him. Other off-duty guards are waiting their turn. 
RED (V.O.) The following April, Andy did tax returns for half the guards at Shawshank. 
97	INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- ONE YEAR LATER (1951) 97 
Tax time again. Even more guards are waiting. 
RED (V.O.) Year after that, he did them all... including the warden's. 
98	EXT -- BASEBALL DIAMOND -- DAY (1952) 98 
A BATTER in a "Noresby Marauders" baseball uniform WHACKS the ball high into left field and races for first. 
RED (V.O.) Year after that, they rescheduled the start of the intramural season to coincide with tax season... 
99	INT -- PRISON LIBRARY/ANDY'S OFFICE -- DAY (1952) 99 
The Batter sits across from Andy. The line winds out the door. 
RED (V.O.) The guards on the opposing teams all remembered to bring their W-2's. 
ANDY Moresby Prison issued you that gun, but you actually had to pay for it? 
THE BATTER Damn right, and the holster too. 
ANDY See, that's all deductible. You get to write that off. 
RED (V.O.) Yes sir, Andy was a regular H&R Block. In fact, he got so busy at tax time, he was allowed a staff. 
ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal Red and Brooks doing filing chores. 
ANDY Say Red, could you hand me a stack of those 1040s? 
RED Believe what you want. These walls are funny. First you hate 'em, then you get used to 'em. After long enough, you get so you depend on 'em. That's "institutionalized." 
JIGGER Shit. I could never get that way. 
ERNIE (softly) Say that when you been inside as long as Brooks has. 
RED Goddamn right. They send you here for life, and that's just what they take. Part that counts, anyway. 
105	EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- DAWN (1954) 105 
The sun rises over gray stone. 
106	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- DAWN (1954) 106 
ANGLE ON RITA POSTER. Sexy as ever. The rising sun sends fingers of rosy light creeping across her face. 
107	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAWN (1954) 107 
Brooks stands on a chair, poised at the bars of a window, cradling Jake in his hands. 
BROOKS I can't take care of you no more. You go on now. You're free. 
He tosses Jake through the bars. The crow flaps away. 
108	EXT -- SHAWSHANK PRISON -- MAIN GATE -- DAY (1954) 108 
TWO SHORT SIREN BLASTS herald the opening of the gate. It swings hugely open, revealing Brooks standing in his cheap suit, carrying a cheap bag, wearing a cheap hat. 
Brooks walks out, tears streaming down his face. He looks back. Red, Andy, and others stand at the inner fence, seeing him off. The massive gate closes, wiping them from view. 
109	INT -- BUS -- DAY (1954) 109 
Brooks is riding the bus, clutching the seat before him, gripped by terror of speed and motion. 
BROOKS (V.O.) Dear Fellas. I can't believe how fast things move on the outside. 
110	EXT -- STREET -- PORTLAND, MAINE -- DAY (1954) 110 
Brooks looks like a kid trying to cross the street without his parents. People and traffic a blur. 
BROOKS (V.O.) I saw an automobile once when I was young. Now they're everywhere. 
111	EXT -- BREWSTER HOTEL -- DAY (1954) 111 
Brooks comes trudging up the sidewalk. He glances up as a prop-driven airliner streaks in low overhead. 
BROOKS (V.O.) The world went and got itself in a big damn hurry. 
He arrives at the Brewster. It ain't much to look at. 
112	INT -- BREWSTER HOTEL -- DAY (1954) 112 
A WOMAN leads Brooks up the stairs toward the top floor. He has trouble climbing so many stairs. 
WOMAN No music in your room after eight p.m. No guests after nine. No cooking except on the hotplate... 
BROOKS (V.O.) People even talk faster. And louder. 
113	INT -- BROOKS' ROOM -- DAY (1954) 113 
Brooks enters. The room is small, old, dingy. Heavy wooden beams cross the ceiling. An arched window affords a view of Congress Street. Traffic noise drifts in. Brooks sets his bag down. He doesn't quite know what to do. He just stands there, like a man waiting for a bus. 
BROOKS (V.O.) The parole board got me into this halfway house called the Brewster, and a job bagging groceries at the Foodway... 
114	INT -- FOODWAY MARKET -- DAY (1954) 114 
Loud. Jangling with PEOPLE and NOISE. Brooks is bagging groceries. Registers are humming, kids are shrieking. 
WOMAN Make sure he double-bags. Last time your man didn't double-bag and the bottom near came out. 
MANAGER You double-bag like the lady says, understand? 
BROOKS Yes sir, double-bag, surely will. 
BROOKS (V.O.) It's hard work. I try to keep up, but my hands hurt most of the time. I don't think the store manager likes me very much. 
115	EXT -- PARK -- DAY (1954) 115 
Brooks sits alone on a bench, feeding pigeons. 
BROOKS (V.O.) Sometimes after work I go to the park and feed the birds. I keep thinking Jake might show up and say hello, but he never does. I hope wherever he is, he's doing okay and making new friends. 
116	INT -- BROOKS' ROOM -- NIGHT (1954) 116 
Dark. Traffic outside. Brooks wakes up. Disoriented. Afraid. Somewhere in the night, a LOUD ARGUMENT is taking place. 
table. An empty chair faces them. We are again in: 
INT -- SHAWSHANK HEARINGS ROOM -- DAY (1957) 
Red enters, ten years older than when we first saw him at a parole hearing. He removes his cap and sits. 
MAN #l It says here you've served thirty years of a life sentence. 
MAN #2 You feel you've been rehabilitated? 
RED Yes sir, without a doubt. I can say I'm a changed man. No danger to society, that's the God's honest truth. Absolutely rehabilitated. 
CLOSEUP -- PAROLE FORM 
A big rubber stamp slams down: "REJECTED." 
152	EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DUSK (1957) 152 
Red emerges into fading daylight. Andy's waiting for him. 
RED Same old, same old. Thirty years. Jesus. When you say it like that... 
ANDY You wonder where it went. I wonder where ten years went. 
Red nods, solemn. They settle in on the bleachers. Andy pulls a small box from his sweater, hands it to Red. 
ANDY Anniversary gift. Open it. 
Red does. Inside the box, on a thin layer of cotton, is a shiny new harmonica, bright aluminum and circus-red. 
ANDY Had to go through one of your competitors. Hope you don't mind. Wanted it to be a surprise. 
RED It's very pretty, Andy. Thank you. 
ANDY You gonna play something? 
Red considers it, shakes his head. Softly: 
RED Not today. 
153	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE/ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1957) 153 
Men line the tiers as the evening count is completed. The convicts step into their cells. The master switch is thrown and all the doors slam shut -- KA-THUMP! Andy finds a cardboard tube on his bunk. The note reads: "A new girl for your 10 year anniversary. From your pal. Red." 
154	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- LATER (1957) 154 
Marilyn Monroe's face fills the screen. SLOW PULL BACK reveals the new poster: the famous shot from "The Seven Year Itch," on the subway grate with skirt billowing up. Andy sits gazing at her as lights-out commences... 
155	INT -- RED'S CELL -- NIGHT (1957) 155 
...and we find Red gazing blankly as darkness takes the cellblock. Adding up the months, weeks, days... 
He regards the harmonica like a man confronted with a Martian artifact. He considers trying it out -- even holds it briefly to his lips, almost embarrassed -- but puts it back in its box untested. And there the harmonica will stay... 
FADE TO BLACK 
156 	WE HOLD IN BLACKNESS as THUMPING SOUNDS grow louder... 156 
RED (V.O.) Andy was as good as his word. He kept writing to the State Senate. Two letters a week instead of one. 
...and the BLACKNESS disintegrates as a wall tumbles before our eyes, revealing a WORK CREW with picks and sledgehammers, faces obscured outlaw-style with kerchiefs against the dust. Behind them are GUARDS overseeing the work. 
Andy yanks his kerchief down, grinning in exhilaration. Red and the others follow suit. They step through the hole in the wall, exploring what used to be a sealed-off storage room. 
RED (V.O.) In 1959, the folks up Augusta way finally clued in to the fact they couldn't buy him off with just a 200 dollar check. Appropriations Committee voted an annual payment of 500 dollars, just to shut him up. 
157	INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY (1960) 157 
TRACKING the construction. Walls have been knocked down. Men are painting, plastering, hammering. Lots of shelves going up. Red is head carpenter. We find him discussing plans with Andy. 
RED (V.O.) Those checks came once a year like clockwork. 
158	INT -- PRISON LIBRARY -- DAY (1960) 158 
Red and the boys are opening boxes, pulling out books. 
RED (V.O.) You'd be amazed how far Andy could stretch it. He made deals with book clubs, charity groups...he bought remaindered books by the pound... 
HEYWOOD Treasure Island. Robert Louis... 
ANDY (jotting) ...Stevenson. Next? 
RED I got here an auto repair manual, and a book on soap carving. 
ANDY Trade skills and hobbies, those go under educational. Stack right behind you. 
ANDY I don't waste time on losers, Tommy. 
TOMNY (tight) I ain't no goddamn loser. 
ANDY That's a good start. If we do this, we do it all the way. One hundred percent. Nothing half-assed. 
Tommy thinks about it, nods. 
TOMMY Thing is, see... (leans in, mutters) ...I don't read all that good. 
ANDY (smiles) Well. You've come to the right place then. 
179	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1965) 179 
We find Andy giving an impassioned reading: 
ANDY ...and the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor...and my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor, shall be lifted nevermore! " 
Andy slaps the book shut, immensely pleased with himself. 
TOMMY So this raven just sits there and won't go away? 
ANDY That's right. 
TOMMY (beat) Why don't that fella get hisself a 12-gauge and dust the fucker? 
180	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1965) 180 
Tommy tries to read as Andy looks on: 
TOMMY The cat sh--The cat shh... (glances up) The cat shat on the welcome mat? 
Andy shakes his head. Not exactly. 
181	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1965) 181 
Andy chalks the alphabet on a blackboard. 
RED (V.O.) So Andy took Tommy under his wing. Started walking him through his ABCs... 
182	INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY (1965) 182 
TRACK the table to Tommy and Andy. Discussing a book. 
RED (V.O.) Tommy took to it pretty well, too. Boy found brains he never knew he had. 
183	EXT -- EXERCISE YARD BLEACHERS -- DAY (1965) 183 
TOMNY The cat sh--shh--shimmied up the tree and crept st--stel--stealthily out on the limb... 
184	INT -- WOOD SHOP -- DAY (1965) 184 
Tommy intent on a paperback, mouthing the words. Behind him, wood is piling up on the conveyor belt. 
RED (V.O.) After a while, you couldn't pry those books out of hands. 
RED Ass in gear, son! You're putting us behind! 
Tommy shoves the book in his back pocket and hurries over. 
185	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1965) 185 
Tommy writes a sentence on the blackboard. Andy steps in, shows him how to reconstruct it. 
RED (V.O.) Before long, Andy started him on his course requirements. He really liked the kid, that was part of it. Gave him a thrill to help a youngster crawl off the shitheap. But that wasn't the only reason... 
186	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1966) 186 
TIGHT ANGLE on chessboard. Most of the pieces complete. PAN TO Andy lying in his bunk, carefully polishing... 
RED (V.O.) Prison time is slow time. Sometimes it feels like stop-time. So you do what you can to keep going... 
...and we keep going past Andy in a SLOW PAN of the cell. Sink. Toilet. Books. Outside the window bars, we hear another TRAIN passing in the night... 
RED (V.O.) Some fellas collect stamps. Others build matchstick houses. Andy built a library. Now he needed a new project. Tommy was it. It was the same reason he spent years shaping and polishing those rocks. The same reason he hung his fantasy girlies on the wall... 
...STILL PANNING, past a chair, a sweater on a hook...and finally to the place of honor on the wall... 
RED (V.O.) In prison, a man'll do most anything to keep his mind occupied. 
...where the latest poster turns out to be Racquel Welch ins fur bikini. Gorgeous. "One Million Years, B. C. " SLOW PUSH IN, 
RED (V.O.) By 1966...right about the time Tommy was getting ready to take his exams...it was lovely Racquel. 
187	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1966) 187 
NORTON (rises) Dufresne, if you want to indulge this fantasy, that's your business. Don't make it mine. This meeting's over. 
ANDY Look, if it's the squeeze, don't worry. I'd never say what goes on in here. I'd be just as indictable as you for laundering the money! 
NORTON Don't you ever mention money to me again, you sorry son of a bitch! Not in this office, not anywhere! (slaps intercom) Get in here! Now! 
ANDY I was just trying to rest your mind at ease, that's all. 
NORTON (as GUARDS enter) Solitary! A month! 
Andy gets dragged away, kicking and screaming: 
ANDY What's the matter with you? It's my chance to get out, don't you see that? It's my life! Don't you understand it's my life? 
193	EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY (1966) 193 
Mail call. Men crowd around as names are called out. Red and the boys are parked on the bleachers. 
FLOYD A month in the hole. Longest damn stretch I ever heard of. 
TOMMY It's my fault. 
RED Like hell. You didn't pull the trigger, and you didn't convict him. 
HEYWOOD Red? You saying Andy's innocent? I mean for real innocent? (Red nods) Sweet Jesus. How long's he been in here? 
RED Since '47. Going on nineteen years. 
MAIL CALLER Thomas Williams! 
Tommy raises his hand. The envelope gets tossed to him. He stares at it. Red peers over his shoulder. 
RED Board of Education. 
TOMMY The son of a bitch mailed it. 
RED Looks that way. You gonna open it or stick your thumb up your butt? 
TOMMY Thumb up my butt sounds better. 
He gets hemmed in by the older men. Red snatches the letter. 
TOMMY C'mon, just throw it away. Will you please? Just throw it away? 
Red rips it open, scans the letter. Expressionless. 
RED Well, shit. 
194	INT -- VISITOR'S ROOM -- DAY (1966) 194 
Tommy makes his way through the chaos, finds Beth and the baby waiting behind the thick plexi shield. He sits, doesn't pick up the phone. Just stares at Beth. She doesn't know what to make of it. 
He presses a piece of paper against the glass. A high school diploma. Her face lights up, blinking back tears. 
195	INT -- SOLITARY WING -- NIGHT (1966) 195 
LOW ANGLE on steel door. Somewhere behind it, unseen, is Andy, A rat scurries along the wall. FOOTSTEPS approach slowly. 
196	INT -- SOLITARY -- NIGHT (1966) 196 
Andy listens in darkness. The FOOTSTEPS pause outside his door. The slot opens. An ELDERLY GUARD peers in. 
ELDERLY GUARD Kid passed. C-plus average. Thought you'd like to know. 
The slot closes. The FOOTSTEPS recede. Andy smiles. 
197	INT -- PRISON CORRIDOR -- NIGHT (1966) 197 
We find Tommy on evening work detail, mopping the floors with bucket and pail. Mert Entwhistle comes into view. 
MERT Warden wants to talk. 
198	EXT -- PRISON -- NIGHT (1966) 198 
A steel door rattles open. Mert leads Tommy outside to a gate, unlocks it. Tommy looks around. 
TOMMY Out here? 
MERT That's what the man said. 
Mert swings the gate open, sends Tommy through, turns and heads back inside. Tommy proceeds out across a loading-dock access for the shops and mills. Some vehicles parked. The place is deserted. He stops, sensing a presence. 
TOMMY Warden? 
Norton steps into the light. 
ANDY Mexico. Little place right on the Pacific. You know what the Mexicans say about the Pacific? They say it has no memory. That's where I'd like to finish out my life, Red. A warm place with no memory. Open a little hotel right on the beach. Buy some worthless old boat and fix it up like new. Take my guests out charter fishing. (beat) You know, a place like that, I'd need a man who can get things. 
Red stares at Andy, laughs. 
RED Jesus, Andy. I couldn't hack it on the outside. Been in here too long. I'm an institutional man now. Like old Brooks Hatlen was. 
ANDY You underestimate yourself. 
RED Bullshit. In here I'm the guy who can get it for you. Out there, all you need are Yellow Pages. I wouldn't know where to begin. (derisive snort) Pacific Ocean? Hell. Like to scare me to death, somethin' that big. 
ANDY Not me. I didn't shoot my wife and I didn't shoot her lover, and whatever mistakes I made I've paid for and then some. That hotel and that boat...I don't think it's too much to want. To look at the stars just after sunset. Touch the sand. Wade in the water. Feel free. 
RED Goddamn it, Andy, stop! Don't do that to yourself! Talking shitty pipedreams! Mexico's down there, and you're in here, and that's the way it is! 
ANDY You're right. It's down there, and I'm in here. I guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. Get busy living or get busy dying. 
Red snaps a look. What the hell does that mean? Andy rises and walks away. Red lunges to his feet. 
RED Andy? 
ANDY (turns back) Red, if you ever get out of here, do me a favor. There's this big hayfield up near Buxton. You know where Buxton is? 
RED (nods) Lots of hayfields there. 
ANDY One in particular. Got a long rock wall with a big oak at the north end. Like something out of a Robert Frost poem. It's where I asked my (MORE) 
ANDY (cont.) wife to marry me. We'd gone for a picnic. We made love under that tree. I asked and she said yes. (beat) Promise me, Red. If you ever get out, find that spot. In the base of that wall you'll find a rock that has no earthly business in a Maine hayfield. A piece of black volcanic glass. You'll find something buried under it I want you to have. 
RED What? What's buried there? 
ANDY You'll just have to pry up that rock and see. 
Andy turns and walks away. 
206	INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY (1966) 
RED I tell you, the man was talkin' crazy. I'm worried, I truly am. 
SKEET We ought to keep an eye on him. 
JIGGER That's fine, during the day. But at night he's got that cell all to himself. 
HEYWOOD Oh Lord. Andy come down to the loading dock today. Asked me for a length of rope. Six foot long. 
SNOOZE Shit! You gave it to him? 
HEYWOOD Sure I did. I mean why wouldn't I? 
FLOYD Christ! Remember Brooks Hatlen? 
HEYWOOD How the hell was I s'pose to know? 
JIGGER Andy'd never do that. Never. 
They all look to Red. 
RED Every man's got a breaking point. 
207	EXT -- PRISON YARD -- ANGLE ON P.A. -- DUSK (1966) 207 
VOICE (over P.A.) Report to your cellblocks for evening count. 
BOOM DOWN to Red and the boys. Convicts drift past them. 
FLOYD Where the hell is he? 
HEYWOOD Probably still up in the warden's. 
TOWER GUARD (via bullhorn) YOU MEN! YOU HEAR THAT ANNOUNCEMENT OR ZUST TOO STUPID TO UNDERSTAND? 
SKEET Christ. What do we do? 
FLOYD Nothing we can do. Not tonight. 
HEYWOOD Let's pull him aside tomorrow, all of us. Have a word with him. Ain't that right, Red? 
RED (unconvinced) Yeah. Sure. That's right. 
20B	INT -- NORTON'S OFFICE -- NIGHT (1966) 208 
Andy's working away. Norton pokes his head in. 
NORTON Lickety-split. I wanna get home. 
ANDY Just about done, sir. 
Norton and Hadley stride across the grounds, ALARM BLARING. 
NORTON I want every man on that cellblock questioned! Start with that friend of his! 
HADLEY who? 
219	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- RED'S CELL -- DAY (1966) 219 
Red watches as Norton storms up with an entourage of guards. 
NORTON Him. 
Red's eyes widen. Guards yank him from his cell. 
220	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- DAY (1966) 220 
Norton steps to the center of the room, working himself up into a fine rage: 
NORTON What do you mean "he just wasn't here?" Don't say that to me, Haig! Don't say that to me again! 
HAIG But sir! He wasn't! He isn't! 
NORTON I can see that, Haig! You think I'm blind? Is that what you're saying? Am I blind, Haig? 
HAIG No sir! 
Norton grabs the clipboard and thrusts it at Hadley. 
NORTON What about you? You blind? Tell me what this is! 
HADLEY Last night's count. 
NORTON You see Dufresne's name? I sure do! Right there, see? "Dufresne." He was in his cell at lights out! Stands to reason he'd still be here this morning! I want him found! Not tomorrow, not after breakfast! Now! 
Haig scurries out, gathering men. Norton spins to Red. 
NORTON Well? 
RED Well what? 
NORTON I see you two all the time, you're thick as thieves, you are! He must'a said something! 
RED No sir, he didn't! 
Norton spreads his arms evangelist-style, spins slowly around. 
NORTON Lord! It's a miracle! Man up and vanished like a fart in the wind! Nothin' left but some damn rocks on the windowsill and that cupcake on the wall! Let's ask her! Maybe she knows! What say there, Fuzzy- Britches? Feel like talking? Guess not. Why should you be different? 
Red exchanges looks with the guards. Even they're nervous. Norton scoops a handful rocks off the sill. He hurls them at the wall one at a time, shattering them, punctuating his words: 
NORTON It's a conspiracy! (SMASH) That's what this is! (SMASH) It's one big damn conspiracy! (SMASH) And everyone's in on it! (SMASH) Including her! 
He sends the last rock whizzing right at Racquel. No smash. 
It takes a moment for this to sink in. All eyes go to her. The rock went through her. There's a small hole in the poster where her navel used to be. 
You could hear a pin drop. Norton reaches up, sinks his finger into the hole. He keeps pushing...and his entire hand disappears into the wall. 
221 	ANGLE FROM BEHIND POSTER 221 
as Norton rips the poster from before our eyes. Stunned faces peer in. CAMERA PULLS SLOWLY BACK...to reveal the long crumbling tunnel in the wall. 
222	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- MINUTES LATER (1966) 222 
RORY TREMONT, a guard barely out of his teens, tries not to look nervous as they lash a rope around his chest. He's getting instructions from six different people at once. 
RED (V.O.) They got this skinny kid named Rory Tremont to go in the hole. He wasn't much in the brains department, but he possessed the one most important qualification for the job... (they slap a flashlight in his hands) ...he was willing to go. 
223	INT -- TUNNEL -- DAY (1966) 223 
Rory squeezes down the tunnel on his belly. 
RED (V.O.) Probably thought he'd win a Bronze Star or something. 
224	INT -- VERTICAL SHAFT -- DAY (1966) 224 
Dark as midnight. Concrete walls rise on both sides. If you imagine them as two huge slices of bread, the meat of this particular sandwich is about three feet of airspace and a dark tangle of pipes between the cellblocks. Rory's appears, shining his flashlight down the shaft. Somewhere, a rat SQUEAKS. 
RED (V.O.) It was his third day on the job. 
RORY Warden? There's a space here between the walls 'bout three feet across! Smells pretty damn bad! 
NORTON (O.S.) I don't care what it smells like! 
HADLEY (O.S.) Go on, boy! We got a hold of you! 
Andy strolls along, whistling softly, hands in both pockets. TILT DOWN to his pantleg. Concrete grit trickles out. 
RED (V.O.) It turns out Andy's favorite hobby was totin' his wall out into the exercise yard a handful at a time... 
236	INT -- 2ND TIER -- NIGHT (1962) 236 
A GUARD strolls the tier, shining his flashlight into the cells. He pauses at Andy's bars, playing the beam over the sleeping form huddled under the blankets. 
p37 REVERSE ANGLE (FROM INS1DE ANDY'S CELL) 237 
We see what the guard doesn't: instead of Andy's head under the blanket, it's a wadded-up pillow. The flashlight plays across the cell, pinning Marilyn Monroe in a circle of light. 
238 	ANGLE FROM BEHIND POSTER 238 
The light illuminates her face through the paper. WIDEN to reveal Andy lying in his tunnel, holding his breath. The light clicks off. The FOOTSTEPS move on. He gets back to work. 
RED (V.O.) While the rest of us slept, Andy spent years workin' the nightshift... 
239	INT -- SHAFT -- NIGHT (1965) 239 
BOOMING SLOWLY UP the shaft. Rats scurry the pipes. Suddenly, r piece of concrete the size of a quarter jumps free and plummets down the shaft as the rock-hammer pushes through. The pick withdraws, replaced by Andy's peering eye. 
240 	A SERIES OF DISSOLVES (1965 through 1966) 240 
takes us through the widening of the hole. First as big as a tea cup. Then a saucer. Then a dinner plate. 
RED (V.O.) Probably took him most of a year just to get his head through. 
Andy finally gets his head through, scraping his ears. He's got a penlight clenched in his teeth. He peers down into the shaft. At the very bottom, maybe 20 feet down, a big ceramic pipe runs the length of the cellblock. Beneath its coat of grime and dust, the word "SEWER" is stenciled. 
241	EXT -- LOADING DOCK ACCESS -- NIGHT (1966) 241 
ANGLE LOOKING STRAIGHT DOWN. Below us, Tommy Williams lies facedown at Norton's feet. Blood is spreading, fanning out oa the pavement. Norton turns, strolls out of frame. 
RED (V.O.) I guess after Tommy was killed, Andy decided he'd been here just about long enough. 
Again we see: Andy working. Norton pokes his head in. 
NORTON Lickety-split. I wanna get home. 
ANDY Just about done, sir. 
Norton crosses to the wall safe and works the dial, his back turned. This time, though, we stay on Andy: 
He pulls up his sweater, yanks out a large black book and a stack of files, lays them on the desk. He then grabs the real ledger and files, jams them down his pants and smoothes his sweater down. He picks up the bogus stack, crosses to Norton, and shoves everything in. 
243	INT -- HALLWAY -- NIGHT (1966) 243 
Norton exits his office and strolls off whistling. PUSH IN on the open door. We see Andy at the guard's desk, pulling Norton's dress shoes from their box. 
RED (V.O.) Andy did like he was told. Buffed those shoes to a high mirror shine. 
244	INT -- NORTON'S OFFICE -- MINUTES LATER (1966) 244 
Andy sorts through Norton's three suits. He pauses, checking the gray pinstripe. Nice. 
245	INT -- CELLBLOCK FIVE -- NIGHT (1966) 245 
The guard BUZZES Andy through. Andy walks toward us. 
RED (V.O.) The guard simply didn't notice. Neither did I. I mean, seriously, how often do you really look at a man's shoes? 
TILT DOWN as he passes by. Yep, he's wearing Norton's shoes. 
246	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1966) 246 
The lights go out. Andy places the last chess piece. Gazes up at Racquel. Smiles. Pulls the rope from under his pillow. He stands and unbuttons his prison shirt, revealing Norton's gray pinstripe suit underneath. A FLASH OF LIGHTNING floods the cell, throwing wild shadows. 
247	INT -- ANDY'S CELL -- NIGHT (1966) 247 
The storm rages. Andy, naked, carefully slips Norton's folded suit into a large industrial Zip-Lock bag. Next to go in are the shoes, chess pieces (already in a smaller bag), black ledger en files. Last but not least, a bar of soap wrapped in a towel. 
248	INT -- TUNNEL -- NIGHT (1966) 248 
Andy, again wearing prison clothes, inches down the tunnel. 
249	INT -- SHAFT -- NIGHT (1966) 249 
Andy squeezes through the hole head-first, emerges to the waist, He reaches for the opposite wall, manages to snag a steel conduit with his fingers. 
Suddenly, a huge rat darts for his hand. Andy yanks away and almost plummets head-first down the shaft. He dangles wildly upside-down for a moment, arms windmilling, then gets his hands pressed firmly against the opposite wall. The rat scurries off, pissed. 
Andy snags the conduit again. He contorts out of the hole and dangles into the shaft. We now see the purpose for the rope: the plastic bag hangs from his ankle with about two feet of slack, 
He kicks his legs across the shaft, gets his feet braced. Wit3 his back against one wall and feet against the other, he starts down the shaft. Sliding dangerously. Using pipes for handholds. Flinching as rats dart this way and that, scurrying in the shadows. He drops the last few feet to the bottom. 
ANGLE SHIFTS to reveal Captain Hadley. Staring. Waiting. 
D.A. You have the right to remain silent. If you give up that right, anything you say will be used against you in court... 
TROOPERS move in, cuffing Hadley's hands behind his back. The D.A. drones on. FLASHBULBS POP. Hadley says nothing. His face scrunches up. He begins to cry. 
RED (V.O.) I wasn't there to see it, but I hear Byron Hadley was sobbing like a little girl when they took him away. 
Hadley sobs all the way to the car. The D.A. snaps a gaze up toward Norton's window, motions his men to follow. 
260	INT -- NORTON'S OFFICE -- DAY (1966) 260 
Norton is staring out the window as they approach the building. He goes to his desk, opens a drawer. Inside lies a revolver and a box of shells. 
RED (V.O.) Norton had no intention of goin' that quietly. 
261	INT -- PRISON CORRIDORS -- DAY (1966) 261 
The D.A. marches along amidst a phalanx of TROOPERS. 
262	INT -- NORTON'S OFFICE -- DAY (1966) 262 
Norton sits blankly at his desk, revolver before him. The doorknob rattles, a VOICE is heard: 
D.A. (O.S.) Samuel Norton? We have a warrant for your arrest! Open up! 
The POUNDING starts. Norton dumps the box of bullets out on thr desk. He starts sorting them to see which ones he likes. 
263 	OUTSIDE HIS OFFICE 263 
Troopers hustle the hapless duty guard to Norton's door as he fumbles nervously with a huge key ring. 
DUTY GUARD I'm not sure which one it is... 
He starts trying keys in the lock. And as the keys go sliding in one after another... 
264	INT -- NORTON'S OFFICE -- DAY (1966) 264 
...so do the bullets. Norton is riveted to the door. For every key, he loads another bullet. Methodical and grim. He gets the final bullet in just as the right key slams home. The door bursts open. Men muscle in. Somebody SHOUTS. Troopers dive in all directions as Norton raises the gun -- 
-- and jams it under his chin. his head snaps back as the wall goes red. His swivel chair does a slow half-turn and creaks to a final stop. Troopers rise slowly, gazing in horror. 
RED (V.O.) I like to think the last thing that went through his head...other than that bullet...was to wonder how the hell Andy Dufresne ever got the best of him. 
PUSH SLOWLY to the wall to reveal Mrs. Norton's framed sampler trickling blood and brains...and we get our final Bible lesson for today: "HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT RIGHT SOON." 
265	EXT -- PRISON YARD -- DAY (1966) 265 
Mail call. Red hears his name. They pass him a postcard. 
RED (V.O.) Not long after the warden deprived us of his company, I got a postcard in the mail. It was blank. But the postmark said, "McNary, Texas." 
266	INT -- LIBRARY -- DAY (1966) 266 
Red sits with an atlas, tracing his finger down the page. 
RED (V.O.) McNary. Right on the border. That's where Andy crossed. (shuts the book) When I picture him heading south in his own car with the top down, it makes me laugh all over again... 
267	EXT -- MEXICO -- HIGHWAY -- DAY (1966) 267 
A red convertible rips along with Andy at the wheel, cigar jutting from his grin, warm wind fluttering his tie. 
RED (V.O.) Andy Dufresne, who crawled through a river of shit and came out clean on the other side. Andy Dufresne, headed for the Pacific. 
268	INT -- MESS HALL -- DAY (1966) 268 
Heywood is regaling the table with some anecdote about Andy. 
RED (V.O.) Those of us who knew him best talk about him often. I swear, the stuff he pulled. It always makes us laugh. 
A wild burst of laughter. PUSH IN on Red. Feeling melancholy. 
RED (V.O.) Sometimes it makes me sad, though, Andy being gone. I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged, that's all. Their feathers are just too bright... 
269	EXT -- FIELDS -- LATE DAY (1966) 269 
Convicts hoe the fields. Guards patrol on horseback. 
RED (V.O.) ...and when they fly away, the part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice...but still, the place you live is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. 
A DISTANT RUMBLE OF THUNDER. Red pauses, gazes off. Storm clouds coming in, backlit by the sun. A light drizzle begins. 
RED (V.O.) I guess I just miss my friend. 
270	INT -- PRISON CELL -- NIGHT (1966) 270 
280	INT -- FOODWAY MARKET -- DAY 280 
Loud. Jangling with PEOPLE and NOISE. We find Red bagging groceries. Registers are humming, kids are shrieking. Red calls to the STORE MANAGER: 
RED Sir? Restroom break sir? 
MANAGER (motions him over) You don't need to ask me every time you go take a piss. Just go. Understand? 
28l	INT -- EMPLOYEE RESTROOM -- DAY 281 
Red steps to the urinal, stares at himself in the wall mirror. 
RED (V.O.) Thirty years I've been asking permission to piss. I can't squeeze a drop without say-so. 
A strange east Indian guitar-whine begins. The Beatles. George Harrison's "Within You Without You..." 
282	EXT -- STREET -- DAY 282 
...which carries through as Red walks. People and traffic. He keeps looking at the women. An alien species. 
RED (V.O.) Women, too, that's the other thing. I forgot they were half the human race. There's women everywhere, every shape and size. I find myself semi-hard most of the time, cursing myself for a dirty old man. 
TWO YOUNG WOMEN stroll by in cut-offs and t-shirts. 
RED (V.O.) Not a brassiere to be seen, nipples poking out at the world. Jeezus, pleeze-us. Back in my day, a woman out in public like that would have been arrested and given a sanity hearing. 
283	EXT -- PARK -- DUSK 283 
Red finds the park filled with HIPPIES. Hanging out. Happening. Here's the source of the music: a radio. A HIPPIE GIRL gyrates to the Beatles, stoned, in her own world. 
RED (V.O.) They're calling this the Summer of Love. Summer of Loonies, you ask me. 
284	INT -- PAROLE OFFICE -- DAY 284 
Red sits across from his PAROLE OFFICER. The P.O. is filling out his report. 
P.O. You staying out of the bars, Red? 
RED Yes sir. That I am. 
P.O. How you doing otherwise? Adjusting okay? 
RED Things got different out here. 
P.O. Tell me about it. Young punks protesting the war. You imagine? Even my own kid. Oughtta bust his fuckin' skull. 
RED Guess the world moved on. 
285	INT -- FOODWAY -- DAY 285 
Bagging groceries. CHILDREN underfoot. One points a toy gun at Red, pumping the trigger. Red focuses on the gun, listening to it CLICKETY-CLACK. Sparky wheel grinding. 
The kids get swept off by MOM. Red starts bagging the next customer. SLOW PUSH IN on Red. Surrounded by MOTION and NOISE. Feeling like the eye of a hurricane. People everywhere, whipping around him like a gale. Strange. Loud. Dizzying. It gets distorted and weird, slow and thick, pressing in on him from all sides. The noise level intensifies. The hollering of children deepens and distends into LOW EERIE HOWLS. 
He's in the grip of a major anxiety attack. Tries to shake himself out of it. Can't. Fumbles the final items into the bag. Walks away. Trying not to panic. Trying not to run. 
He makes his way through the store. Blinking sweat. He bumps into a lady's cart, mumbles an apology, keeps going. Breaks into a trot. Down the aisle, cut to the left, through the door into the back rooms, faster and faster, running now, slamming through a door marked "Employees Only" into -- 
286	INT -- EMPLOYEE RESTROOM -- DAY 286 
-- where he slams the door and leans heavily against it, shutting everything out, breathing heavily. Alone now. 
He goes to the sink, splashes his face, tries to calm down. He can still hear them out there. They won't go away. He glances around the restroom. Small. Not small enough. 
He enters a stall. Locks the door. Puts the toilet lid down and sits on the john. Better. He can actually reach out and touch the walls now. They're close. Safe. Almost small enough. He draws his feet up so he can't be seen if somebody walks in. 
He'll just sit here for a while. Until he calms down. 
287	EXT -- STREET -- DUSK 287 
Red is walking home. 
RED (V.O.) There is a harsh truth to face. No way I'm gonna make it on the outside. 
He pauses at a pawnshop window. An array of handguns. 
RED (V.O.) All I do anymore is think of ways to break my parole. 
The SHOPKEEPER appears at the glass, locking the door and flipping the sign: CLOSED. 
288	INT -- RED'S ROOM -- NIGHT 288 
Red lies smoking in bed. Unable to sleep. 
RED (V.O.) Terrible thing, to live in fear. Brooks Hatlen knew it. Knew it all too well. All I want is to be back where things make sense. Where I won't have to be afraid all the time. 
