SHE'S OUT OF MY LEAGUE 
Written by 
Sean Anders & John Morris 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM 
A dozen or so shadowy people are seated in the darkened room. A slide projector dimly lights MR. FULLER, a crew-cutted Robert Stack type in a suit, as he addresses the group. The current slide is a still from a security video of a blurry figure - it could be any of about a billion people. 
FULLER ...So, let's keep a steely eye out for this bastard. (THEN) Before we dismiss, this is your monthly reminder of why we're here. 
Fuller advances to a slide of the American flag. Close on one of the group - a heavyset bald man in his mid-thirties. He politely pays close attention to the presentation. 
FULLER (CONT'D) The American people want to travel. (Slide: Family in front of a fake dinosaur) They want to attend baseball contests (Slide: Fat guys spilling beers as they go for a foul ball) and popular music concerts. (Slide: John Tesh) 
Close on another face in the group. A doughy man with three- day scruff and a trendily long haircut. He looks bored, rolling his eyes at the speech. 
FULLER (CONT'D) They want to be happy. (Slide: People line dancing) But, Security comes first. (Slide: Army soldier with a massive machine gun guards a play- ground) Without security there can be no happy. You are America's front line in the global war on terror. Let's hit the trenches and let's be careful out there. (Slide: TSA logo) 
The lights come up and as the group files out we get a better look at their uniforms. The TSA agents move out into the... 
INT. AIRPORT - SECURITY CHECK POINT - DAY 
The agents take their places, manning the screening equipment. We push in on the bald man as he takes up his post next to the walk-through metal detector. This is KIRK KETTNER. He is not a looker. His uniform only serves to highlight his least attractive features but his eyes and demeanor are pleasant and kind. 
The scruffy agent is STAINER. He stands at the x-ray monitor. As the bags begin to move through, he does not pay any attention, rather he hands Kirk a flyer. 
STAINER Kirk, bro.     Tonight? 
INSERT: The flyer reads, "Wheel in the Sky - a Tribute to Journey at Club Vertigo - Every Tuesday Night!" Stainer is pictured wearing a massive afro in the band photo. 
KIRK I don't know, Stainer. 
STAINER Dude, you never come see us anymore. It's been like four months. Time to forget about Marnie and get back on the whores. 
Stainer does a sex dance that makes everyone uncomfortable. Fuller shoots a stern look from his office. 
KIRK It's not that. It's my Grandma. I'll probably be at the hospital for the next few nights. 
STAINER Oh, shit. I spaced that.   How's she doing? 
KIRK She's hanging in there but it doesn't look good. 
STAINER Dude, I'm sorry. She's a great lady. That sucks. 
A Middle-Eastern man in a cowboy hat is next in line. Mr. Fuller appears behind Kirk, taps his shoulder and subtly motions to the Arab. Kirk smiles at the potential terrorist. 
KIRK Hey there, Habib. 
HABIB (perfect English with a southern accent) Howdy Kirk. Lemme guess; I been flagged for a random search. 
KIRK Yeah, sorry. I'll get you out of here quick. You off to Boston again? 
HABIB No, sir. Pediatric convention in Delaware. 
Kirk opens Habib's bag. 
HABIB (CONT'D) Kirk, I know you're just doing your job but, for Pete's sake, ya'll know me. 
KIRK I'm sorry.     It's just... 
Kirk gestures to his boss as he zips the bag back up. 
KIRK (CONT'D) Okay, Habib, you're all set buddy. Have a good trip. 
HABIB Thanks Kirk. See you next time. 
Fuller again appears behind Kirk. 
HABIB (CONT'D) (to fuller - now in a thick Arab accent) Praise be to Allah. 
FULLER You think that's funny!? You wanna sit in first class or you wanna sit on my gloved and jellied finger!? 
EXT. AIRPORT CURB - DAY 
Follow a pair of perfect female legs as the woman's heels click along the sidewalk, suitcase rolling behind. Although we can't see the woman riding on these legs, we can see several men stare as she passes by on her way into... 
MOLLY Oh Geeze. Please tell me I didn't get you in trouble back there. 
KIRK No, no. It's not that.    I ah...I lost somebody today. 
Molly sits down and puts her hand on his hand. 
MOLLY Oh my God. I'm so sorry. I know... I lost my grandmother a few months ago and I... 
Kirk tears up again and so does Molly. 
MOLLY (CONT'D) Your grandmother too? And you were close? Oh, you poor thing. 
Kirk tries to keep it together.   Molly looks at the photo. 
KIRK She used to be a blackjack dealer at the Horseshoe. When I was little, she taught me and my friends how to play poker. Turned us into a bunch of eight-year-old degenerate gamblers. 
They share a sad laugh. 
KIRK (CONT'D) So, your grandmother too, huh? 
Molly removes a small clear-plastic booklet of photos from her bag and shows a picture of her grandmother. 
MOLLY My Grammy Keenan was ninety four but independent right to the end. She was always trying to cook for everyone. You couldn't stop her. 
KIRK Oh, God, I know. Grammy used to change her own oil. Right up until a few months ago. She was... Do you change your own oil? 
MOLLY (LAUGHS) No. I wouldn't know where to begin. 
KIRK I know, me neither. She could barley walk and I'd come over and find her lying under her Cadillac all covered in grease. 
They share a laugh and Kirk is cheering up a bit.   An announcement comes over the PA. 
GATE AGENT ...final boarding call for United flight 94 to Burbank... 
MOLLY Oh, geeze, that's me. I'm so sorry. 
KIRK No, no.   Go catch your flight. 
Molly stands and offers her hand to Kirk. 
MOLLY I'm Molly. 
KIRK Kirk Kettner. 
Molly squeezes Kirk's hand, grabs her bags and trots off toward her gate. A businessman near Kirk's table reaches over and gives him a playful chuck on the shoulder. 
BUSINESSMAN Dead Grandma. (a nod and a cheek click) Nice one. 
INT. AIRPORT GATE 
Molly arrives at the gate just in time to make her flight. 
INT. AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP 
Kirk gathers his things and notices that Molly left her pictures on the table. He looks through them. In the last pouch are some business cards that read, "Molly McCall - Event Planner." Her cell number is on the card. 
INT. AIRPLANE 737 
Molly is sitting in a window seat. The flight is mostly empty. The two other seats in her row are unoccupied until a CREEPY BUSINESSMAN moves from the row behind her to the seat next to Molly. He casually smiles as though there is nothing odd about taking the center seat while the aisle seat (and many full rows) are open. Molly looks at the vacant seats and then at him as if to say, "You've got to be kidding." 
CREEPY BUSINESSMAN How you doin'? 
Molly's phone rings and she fumbles to answer it.   A FEMALE PASSENGER sitting two rows back looks annoyed. 
INTERCUT: AIRPLANE / AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP 
MOLLY Hello? 
KIRK Oh, hi.   Molly McCall? 
MOLLY Who's calling please? 
KIRK It's Kirk... From the coffee shop. You left your pictures with me. If you tell me which gate you're at, I can run them right down to you. 
MOLLY Oh, no. I'm already on the plane and we're pushing back right now. 
KIRK Okay, well I'll leave them at the lost and found and when you get... 
STAINER (CONT'D) ...Marnie...don't you think Marnie Tomkins is kind of nasty? 
MARNIE I don't know who that is. 
STAINER Oh, you don't know Marnie Tomkins? She's just this girl. I thought you knew her. Anyway, she's pretty nasty looking... but you're looking good. 
MARNIE Kirk, I'm sorry about Grammy. 
The guys slink away to give Kirk and Marnie some privacy. 
MARNIE (CONT'D) I realize she was never that crazy about me but I know how much you loved her and I hope you're okay. 
KIRK Thanks.   Thanks, I'll be alright. 
MARNIE Listen, are you going to Branson with your folks next month? 
KIRK No.   It's not really my thing. 
MARNIE What's wrong with Branson?     You too good for Branson now? 
KIRK No.   Branson's...awesome. 
MARNIE Well, your mom invited Ron and I along. We'd love to go but not if it's going to be weird for you. 
Kirk considers this.   It will be weird. 
MARNIE (CONT'D) ...I mean the tickets are non- refundable but it's up to you. 
Stainer overhears this and groans out loud. 
KIRK No. You should go. I'm sure you'll have a great time. Totally. 
Marnie hugs Kirk.   This makes him uncomfortable. 
MARNIE Kirk, I'm sorry about what happened with us. You're going to make someone very happy someday, but you have to get over me first, okay? Is it a deal? 
Marnie hugs him again and then departs. 
STAINER She's going to Branson with your fucking parents? And bringing her new fucking boyfriend!? 
KIRK Yeah. He seems like a good guy, though.  He's an entrepreneur. 
Across the room they see Marnie return to Ron with a hug. 
JACK Entrepreneur? Kirk, I know that guy. He owns a Pizza Hut. 
KIRK So?   That's a business. 
STAINER It's not even a real Pizza Hut. It's one of those strip-mall take- out ones. They don't even have chicken wings. The guy's a fuckin' douche bag. 
KIRK He's got more going on than I do. That's all I'm saying. 
STAINER Dude, you can do a hell of a lot better than her. 
DEVON One door closes, another door opens. 
STAINER Fuck you Devon, that doesn't even make any sense. But take this broad that's coming here tonight - I got a feeling about her. You're gonna get on that. 
JACK Absolutely. Visualize it. 
KIRK I appreciate what you guys are trying to do but, I'm telling you, I have zero chance with this one and I'm completely okay with that. 
DEVON That's defeatist thinking. 
KIRK No it isn't. It's just like saying I'll never go to the moon and I'm okay with that too. 
STAINER You're saying you don't want to go to the moon? That's bullshit. 
KIRK No. I'm saying that I never will go to the moon but I'm not going to get down about it because, you know - I never expected to. 
STAINER You don't know. Technology and shit. You might go to the moon. 
Kirk waves to someone at the door.   The guys look up. 
The guys' POV: Molly is stepping toward them - dressed in a beautiful gown. They laugh the way you might laugh at a particularly brutal football tackle. 
DEVON Holy Frijole. 
WAITER Great.    Sorry. 
The waiter exits. 
KIRK So... You know what I do, what about you? Your card said event planner. How'd you get into that? 
MOLLY Well, it wasn't the original plan. I went to law school. Ended up at a big firm but I hated it. Then, they asked me to plan the Christmas party. It was a big hit and a few months later I was done with law. 
KIRK Wow. 
MOLLY I know.    Pernicious career move, right? 
KIRK Oh, I don't know what that word means. What was it? 
Close on Molly's smile. She finds Kirk's unabashed admission very refreshing and endearing. 
MOLLY I'm sorry.     Like, destructive or... 
KIRK Oh, okay. No, I don't think that's so perni...gious? 
MOLLY Pernicious. 
KIRK Good - new word. No, not pernicious at all. Not if you enjoy the work. 
MOLLY I really do. We do a lot of charity events and I get to work with some of the most amazing human beings on some really fun projects. Next month I'm doing a cancer benefit with Billy Joel. 
KIRK Wow.   I love Billy Joel. 
MOLLY The only downside is I have to do a lot of public speaking and I've always struggled with stage fright. 
KIRK Oh man - That's my number one fear. I'm terrified of getting up in front of people. I'd rather get a Kentucky root canal. 
Molly laughs. An older GOOD-LOOKING MAN steps up to the table and stands facing her with his back to Kirk. 
GOOD-LOOKING MAN Excuse me, I was just sitting over at the bar and I was wondering; has anyone told you today that you are absolutely stunning? 
MOLLY Are you seriously hitting on me right in front of my boyfriend? 
He turns to Kirk and both men start to laugh. 
GOOD-LOOKING MAN This is your boyfriend? 
KIRK Oh, yeah right! (Catches Molly's unspoken instructions.) But, yeah. I'm her boyfriend, I guess, so... 
GOOD-LOOKING MAN Really?   Wow. Well... sorry. 
KIRK Honest mistake. 
The man gives Kirk a wink and wanders back to the bar. 
MOLLY Did you get a load of that hair- piece? What is it with men? I mean, look at you. You're bald and you're fine with it. A little dignity is all I'm saying. The toupees and plugs and the teen- dream sports cars... Oh geeze, I'm sorry. Do you drive a sports car? 
KIRK I drive a 94 Taurus. It's got AM/FM but I wouldn't call it a sports car per se. 
Molly laughs and we hard cut through the following snippets of conversation as they eat, chat and laugh. 
KIRK (CONT'D) So here's this little old lady trying to go through security with six pounds of weed in her girdle! 
Cut.   The food is being served. 
MOLLY Oh, my God! I love that book! 
Cut.   The waitress is picking up the empty plates. 
KIRK So, a duck walks into a bar... 
Cut.   Molly is laughing while she's paying the bill. 
MOLLY Well, I've got an early morning. I should go. Thanks for coming along. This was really fun. And thanks again for helping me out. 
KIRK No, thank you for dinner. I feel bad that you won't let me... 
MOLLY Oh, stop it. Listen, I handle some of the charity events for the Coyotes and I've got some tickets for the hockey game tomorrow night. You interested? 
Kirk is a bit taken aback and confused.     Is she actually asking him out on a real date? 
KIRK (NERVOUSLY) Um, sure. Yeah, great. I mean, I'm free tomorrow night. 
STAINER Blindo? 
PATTY Kirk, Molly's sister is blind. 
KIRK Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean... 
MOLLY (not offended) Oh, I know. It's fine. 
INT. BROADCAST BOOTH 
The radio announcers are calling the game. 
ANNOUNCER Forty Five seconds left on the Power Play and the Sharks are knocking at the door. 
INT. HOCKEY ARENA 
REESE So, after the game, you wanna party? 
MOLLY You know my policy on players, Bobby. And you might have noticed we've already got dates. 
The penalty ends and the ref opens the box but Reese is not paying attention. 
REESE Come on, Molly. Just give me a chance, eh.   I'm a great guy - ask any of these assholes. 
The crowd is booing Reese. 
MOLLY Reese, you'd better... 
REESE You can't seriously be blowing me off for these two hosers. 
STAINER Hey! Fuck you Reese!    You suck this year anyway! 
Reese raises his squirt bottle over the glass and squirts Stainer. 
STAINER (CONT'D) You dick! 
Stainer is immediately on his feet, climbing the glass and trying to pummel the huge player. Security is on him in a flash and dragging him, kicking & swearing, out of the arena. 
Reese wakes up and skates out of the box but it's too late. The Sharks score and the crowd revolts. A red-haired redneck woman, sitting two rows back, calls out to Molly and company. 
RED-HAIRED WOMAN You idiots just cost us a goal!    I hope you're happy! 
PATTY You'd better check that tone, Reba! You do NOT want me comin' up there! 
MOLLY Patty! Stop it! I'll go see what I can do about Stainer. 
KIRK No, this is my fault, I'll take care of it. 
MOLLY No, it's okay. I know the head of security. I'll be right back. 
Molly exits and Patty sits back down next to Kirk. 
KIRK God, I'm really embarrassed. 
PATTY That's okay, if Reese did that to me I'd have gone over the glass too. But I would have landed a few before they got me. Reese has been all over Molly ever since she dumped her boyfriend. I tell you, that girl has nothing but trouble when it comes to men. 
KIRK What? How is that even possible? She's so... 
PATTY Tell me about it. I'm no lezbo but sometimes she makes me want to strap on - if know what I'm saying. 
KIRK Yeah.   I think I do. 
PATTY It's a curse, looking like that. Who has the balls to hit on her? Just the most arrogant A-holes like Reese out there. 
KIRK Yeah, I suppose. 
PATTY Listen, Molly brought me along tonight because, you know, she thought I might be 'interested.' 
KIRK Oh.   Oh yeah? 
PATTY But, just for honesty's sake, I'm not interested. No offense. 
KIRK No! Hey! None taken. I don't blame you. I know I'm no Brad Pitt. That's cool. 
PATTY What? You? No, I'm talking about your pal, Stainer. I know he's your friend but he seems like kind of a dumbshit. (THEN) Wait. Why would you think I was talking about you? 
KIRK I'm sorry.     I didn't mean to assume anything. 
STAINER Okay. Anyway... I love Kirky but let's face it, the guy's a three. 
DEVON Stainer, that's just dirty pool. He's at least a four. 
STAINER You're outta your fuckin' mind - four! You go ahead and pump rainbows up his ass. I'm just being honest. 
Stainer moves the score sheet and then writes a three on the glass. It projects onto the overhead scoreboard. 
KIRK I can live with three. 
STAINER He's a nice guy and he's funny. Those are a half a point each. 
Stainer continues the equation on the projector. 
STAINER (CONT'D) But he drives a shit box so we gotta deduct a point for that. 
DEVON Kirk said she likes his Taurus. 
STAINER That's so fucked, I won't even dignify it with a response. So we're back to three. Meanwhile, this Molly is a hard ten. 
DEVON A hard ten? 
STAINER Generally, if a broad is that hot you can deduct a few points for dumb or shallow but she went to law school and her sister's blind. That's a hard ten, friends, and that is rare. A seven point disparity - that's a chasm. The most you can jump is two points. I can't even get a ten. 
JACK Oh, not even you, huh? 
STAINER I'm a five, okay? 
JACK Bullshit.    Then what am I? 
STAINER You're a seven and a half. 
JACK Fine, you're a five then. 
STAINER Okay, so I get a two point bump for being in a band. That puts me at seven. On a good day, most I can bag is a niner. 
KIRK What about your shitty car? 
STAINER Artist exemption. I'm expected to have a shitty car. 
JACK Is there an artist exemption for being a jag-off? 
STAINER Fuckin' A there is. 
KIRK Stainer's right. Patty was probably just messing around. It's not a big deal. Let's just bowl. 
DEVON What about Rick Ocasek?   Billy Joel, Donald Trump... 
STAINER Yeah, dumbass. Those are the wild- cards. Money and fame. 
JACK So, if he were a millionaire? 
STAINER A mil ain't what it once was, Jackie. Devon's practically a millionaire for Christ sake. A mil might get you an eight but to bring down a ten now days - two million minimum. 
Stainer finishes the equation by writing, "Kirk = Fucked." Kirk's phone rings. He checks the ID and his eyes go wide. 
KIRK (into the phone) Hey, Molly... Um, yeah, sure... No, that sounds good. Yeah, I know where that is. Um, okay, yeah... see you then. 
Kirk hangs up and gapes at his friends, who wait in suspense. 
KIRK (CONT'D) Holy crap. (dazed pause) She just asked me out for tomorrow night! 
Kirk exchanges fives, fists, tips and hugs with Devon and Jack. Stainer shakes his head, still not buying it. 
INT. BOWLING ALLEY MEN'S ROOM 
Kirk runs into the otherwise empty restroom. He stares into the mirror and his smile fades into panic. He splashes water on his face. He reaches for a paper towel but the dispenser is empty. 
KIRK (to himself) It's okay. Get it together. Guys do this all the time. You can do this. You can make it happen. 
RANDOM MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) (from inside a stall) You better not be jerking off in the sink, man! 
EXT. AIRPORT PARKING LOT - DAY 
Kirk's Taurus pulls into a space. He climbs out and slams the door. As it closes, he reaches but too late. He looks through the window. The keys are hanging in the ignition. 
INT. AIRPORT SHUTTLE BUS 
The picture goes to snow and then stutters into a shot of Grammy sitting in her kitchen. She has just clicked the video camera on with a remote control. 
MAURY (CONT'D) Oh, good.    There she is. 
GRAMMY Testing. One, two, three, four. Oh, this God damned thing! 
She gets up and fusses with the camera. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) Jap piece of shit! Is it on!? 
Cutaway to Kirk tearing up.   Grammy sits back down. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) Okay, my name is Stella Edith Dakin and if you're watching this, I'm dead as a doorknob and I ain't spent all my money yet. I got shit to do today so I'm going to get right to it. This is my last will and testament and if you miss anything the old Jew's got the paperwork. Okay, here's the deal... 
Everyone besides Kirk leans in, excited to hear what they might get. A phone rings. Maury looks around but the ringing is coming from the TV. Grammy answers the phone. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) Hello? I'm kind of busy right now Eric... Oh, for God's sake, boy! How can you be sure it's even yours? It could be practically anybody's!... No, I'm not paying for that!... Well, then I guess you're going to be a daddy. Congratulations, now I gotta go! 
She hangs up, puts on her glasses and lights up a smoke. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) Anyway! I love all of you, despite some of the shit you pulled, but I spent my life a gambler and I always put my money on the best bet. The odds of any of you fish doing anything worthwhile with my stack are slim to none. So old Grammy's going all in on Big Slick. 
Everyone looks at Kirk who is stunned. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) I'm proud of you, Kirk. Don't let your old Grammy down. Do something good with it. 
She blows a kiss, lifts the remote and aims it at the camera. 
GRAMMY (CONT'D) Oh, for Christ sakes! 
She throws the remote at the lens.    The picture goes to snow. 
ERIC So Kirk gets it all!?   That is bullshit! 
KIRK Eric, it can't be much. 
ERIC Well!? 
Maury digs into his desk and pulls out a mess of papers.    He dons a pair of glasses that make his eyes look gigantic. 
MAURY Let's see here... Looks like she had herself six G's in savings. (MORE) 
MAURY (CONT'D) Um, another three grand in bonds, give or take. Her life insurance will pay pert-near seventy grand. 
He adds this up on an old adding machine (the kind with the hand crank) and writes $77,800 on a chalk board, which is mounted on the wall behind him. 
ERIC She left him eighty grand!? 
MAURY Most of Stella's retirement home expenses were covered by her reverse mortgage. But, figure in thirty thousand still due to Arborwood Village. She racked up forty-seven thousand in medical bills. And my fee, of course, which now stands at two thousand and change - which is real reasonable, folks. 
He writes "Liabilities = $79,000    Total -$1,200." 
ERIC So Kirk owes money!? HA! Shit, man! That is God damn hilarious! 
INT. FRENCH RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
The upscale restaurant is crowded. Kirk and Molly are eating at a small table. Kirk is not relaxed like he had been the last time they ate together. He is sweating and trying to remain cool. The Maitre d is eyeing them suspiciously. 
MOLLY But, you can't legally be held responsible for her debt. What kind of hack is this attorney? 
KIRK It's okay.     I had it in savings. 
The waiter brings a drink to Molly. 
WAITER (French accent) Madame. From ze gentleman in ze grey suit. 
From his table, a good looking man smiles and raises a drink to Molly. She nods back - polite but annoyed. 
KIRK Anyway... Grammy hated owing anyone money. I'm afraid she couldn't rest if she wasn't square with the house. It's the least I can do. She practically raised me. 
MOLLY You're a good man, Kirk. 
Molly smiles and takes his hands. The maitre d is watching and getting angry. The waiter returns with another drink. 
WAITER From ze gentleman in ze purple tie. 
Another guy raises his glass to her from the bar. Molly is getting irritated. Kirk is feeling smaller every minute. 
MOLLY Are you okay? 
KIRK (O.S.) Yeah, fine. 
INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT KITCHEN 
Kirk runs the water while he digs under the sink. He finds duct tape. He pulls some tape off the roll. It makes a loud noise that causes Molly to pause and Kirk to tense up. Kirk opens his pants and begins taping down the trouble-spot. He coughs hard to cover each subsequent tug of the tape roll. 
MOLLY (O.S.) I just think we should get to know each other first.   I'm no prude. I mean, I'm pretty generous in bed. Once I trust a person, I like to experiment and get pretty wild. 
KIRK Oh, dear God. 
MOLLY (O.S.) But, I just need to feel safe first. 
Kirk finishes taping up, zips his pants and checks his profile in the reflection from the window. 
INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT 
Kirk returns with two glasses of water and no visible boner. 
KIRK Hey.   I'm totally fine with that. 
MOLLY You're the best. 
Kirk gives an "aw-shucks" head tilt.    Molly stands. 
MOLLY (CONT'D) Okay, well, I'd better go then. 
They walk to the door. Molly leans in and they kiss a few moments more. Kirk winces as the tape is getting a little snug. She drops her keys and then goes down on one knee to retrieve them. Suddenly she starts coughing. She puts her fist over her mouth. 
Kirk's POV:   As her head and fist bob in front of his crotch. 
Kirk winces again. She hears the tape start to give way. She looks up, slightly confused. Kirk looks around as though he's looking for the source of the sound. Molly stands. 
MOLLY (CONT'D) I had a really nice time.    I'll call you tomorrow. 
KIRK Great! 
Kirk opens the door for Molly. 
EXT. KIRK'S APARTMENT 
As Molly exits, she gives him one last kiss. Two studly male college students are playing foosball on their patio. They stop when one points out the hottie who's kissing Kirk. Molly trots off. 
COLLEGE STUDENT #1 Damn, man!     That chick is fine! 
Kirk returns a cool "whassup" nod to the guys. 
COLLEGE STUDENT #2 All right Mr. Kettner! 
COLLEGE STUDENT #1 You wanna play some foos!? 
KIRK No thanks fellas. 
Kirk beams from the attention as he goes back inside. 
INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT 
He drifts over to his piano and sits down. The joy of what has just happened is plastered on his face. He launches into a furiously happy Jerry Lee Lewis style romp. Soon a neighbor is pounding on the wall. Kirk stops playing. 
KIRK Sorry, Mrs. Neusbaum! 
Kirk continues his celebration, dancing around the apartment. He picks up the picture of Marnie and speaks to it. 
KIRK (CONT'D) Ron seems like a swell guy. I love Pizza Hut. What? Who's this? Why, this is my girlfriend, Molly. Oh, don't be that way. Oh, there, there, now. Here's a tissue. 
He drops the picture and continues the dance. 
INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Kirk lies in bed staring at the ceiling fan. The smile continues as he drifts off to sleep. Time lapses as Kirk sleeps and the sun comes up. Still smiling, his eyes open like a shot and he reaches for his phone - "No Missed Calls." 
MONTAGE OVER MUSIC: 
1) Kirk gets up and goes into the bathroom.   He checks his gut and hairline in the mirror. 
2) From under his bed, he pulls out a Total Gym still in the box. It is dusty, unopened and has a ribbon still attached along with a card that reads, "Happy Graduation - Love Mom and Dad." He sits in the living room bewildered as he reads the directions. The parts are spread out all over the floor. He works out on the machine but it soon violently collapses underneath him. He checks his phone. "No Missed Calls." 
STAINER So, you're telling me you were sitting there, a sweating, quivering stutter-bucket and when you came back from the can, Molly's hugging a guy who's so good looking you'd probably fuck him. What do you think she's doing this weekend? 
KIRK So what am I supposed to do? 
STAINER What can you do? She hasn't called - she's not going to. 
KIRK You're probably right. 
STAINER Just count yourself lucky. You got to kiss a goddess and you got out before she recalibrated your hardware. A chick like that can raise the bar too high and then once she dumps you, nobody else measures up. 
KIRK No, you're right. You know what - it's good. It's better. I'm actually relieved. You should have seen this Talon guy. Man! All I've been thinking about is having to be naked in front of her. I don't need that kind of pressure. 
The valet pulls a red Ferrari up to the mismatched couple and the nerdy guy opens the door for her. Stainer shakes his head as if to say, "Was there even a doubt?" 
Kirk's phone is sitting on the table - it rings.   Kirk and Stainer can see Molly's name on the caller ID. 
STAINER Don't do it! 
The phone rings again. Kirk glances down at the phone. Stainer keeps a stern eye on Kirk. RING! Close on Kirk's eyes turning weak. RING! Close on Stainer's threatening eyes. RING! Kirk gives up and looks away. Stainer's eyes calm. Kirk snatches the phone but Stainer grabs Kirk's wrist, pinning it to the table. RING! 
KIRK Cut it out! 
STAINER Let it go! 
RING! Kirk reaches for the phone with his other hand but Stainer's free hand intercepts it and these arms flail around like battling snakes. Kirk presses the button to answer the call and, instead, moves his head down to the phone. 
KIRK Hello!?... Oh, no problem! Yeah I was super busy yesterday anyway. 
STAINER Would you look at yourself? 
Stainer lets go and Kirk sits up and backs away. 
KIRK Well, I have dinner with my folks tonight... Oh, I wouldn't want to subject you to them... Okay. If you want to. I can pick you up... 
Kirk gives a confident smile and an "I told you she'd call" nod. Stainer crosses his arms and shakes his head. 
KIRK (CONT'D) Oh, sure. Well then let me call you back in a few minutes and I'll give you directions. Alrighty. Yeah. Buh-bye. 
STAINER Well, I guess you just solved that. An hour with your family and she'll file for a restraining order. 
KIRK No. Eric's not going to be there. It's going to be good. You might be wrong about Molly. She might... 
Stainer spots a round little boy posting a "Lost Puppy" flyer over one of the ten he just posted on the kiosk. 
STAINER (to the boy) Whoa! I don't think so Spanky!   A little lower! 
The boy instead posts it over a "Walk For a Cure" poster. 
EXT. KIRK'S PARENTS' HOME - EVENING 
Molly drives up and stops in front of a small home on a quaint residential street. 
She climbs out of her car, checking the address on a small sheet of paper. She sees Kirk sitting on the front porch. 
KIRK You found it! 
MOLLY I had good directions! 
She steps up the front walk toward Kirk, who points to a little yellow note taped to the front door. 
KIRK I'm sorry. My folks aren't back yet. We're locked out. 
MOLLY You don't have a key? 
KIRK No. My dad's kind of obsessed with home-security. Like someone's going to break in and steal his Reader's Digest collection. 
A very old man wobbles out of the house next door with a beagle on a leash. The man struggles a bit with the dog. 
KIRK (CONT'D) Hi, Mr. Riley! 
MR. RILEY Well, howdy Kirk! 
KIRK Hey, what do say you take the night off and I'll take Noodle around the block for you? (to Molly) Are you up for a walk? 
MOLLY That sounds great. 
MR. RILEY Geeze Kirk, that's mighty nice. 
MRS. KETTNER You two take it easy now. We have guests. (THEN) Eric honey, I'm sure if you apologize to Leroy, he'll take you back. 
Eric returns to the table with the beers. 
ERIC Nah, fuck him. Anyways, Leroy ain't payin' shit ever since he trucked in all those spics from Fresno. 
KIRK Geeze Eric! 
Ron looks offended and raises a palm to indicate that... 
RON I got this, Kirk. Eric, before you go bad-mouthin' a whole group of people, you should know that my grandmother on my father's side is from Fresno. 
ERIC Hey, I'm sorry. I didn't know. (THEN) So, Molly. What do you do? 
MOLLY I'm an event planner. 
ERIC You see? That's using your head. That's a business to get into. 
MOLLY Well, thank you Eric. 
ERIC Book a band, blow up a few balloons and people pay out the ass for it. 
KIRK There's a little more to it than that, Eric. Molly handles some big events. She's even doing a benefit with Billy Joel next month. 
MOLLY (PLAYFULLY) Actually, Eric's right.   Just a few balloons. 
Molly smiles to reassure Kirk that she can handle herself. 
RON You know, Molly, I'm a business owner myself. A little restaurant. 
MARNIE I wouldn't really call it a restaurant, Ron. 
RON We serve food that people eat.   So - restaurant. 
MARNIE It's a Pizza Hut with no tables. It's a take out place. 
ERIC So, Molly, me and Debbie here are getting hitched. What do you get for a wedding job? 
Kirk raises his eyebrows into "please-behave-yourself" puppy dog eyes. Eric shoots back an "oh whatever" sneer. 
MOLLY Hmmm. Honestly, I don't really do a lot of weddings. I specialize more in fund-raisers, corporate events, that kind of thing. (MORE) 
MOLLY (CONT'D) Right now I'm working on the annual benefit for the Children's Cancer Center. 
ERIC But you've done weddings. 
MOLLY I've done a few. 
ERIC So, what do you get for one? 
KIRK Dad, could you... 
DEBBIE Don't get your panties in a wad, Kirk. He's just making conversation. 
MOLLY Geeze, there are so many factors that affect the cost of a wedding. 
ERIC We're looking at about two hundred people and we're gonna do this whole Nascar theme. 
DEBBIE I'm getting a kick-ass dress made out of actual checkered flags and Eric is going to be in an orange tux with a big Home Depot logo on the back and Tony Stewart's number 20 on the shoulders. 
MOLLY Oh, how fun! 
ERIC So what's the damage for supervising something like that? 
KIRK Eric, please. 
ERIC I'm just talkin' ballpark. I'm ain't gonna try and Jew her down. 
MOLLY Okay. Before expenses, my base fee for a non-charity event is fifteen thousand. So, I'd ballpark that somewhere around twenty-five grand. 
ERIC (STUNNED) Fuck a duck. 
For a moment everyone is chewing and there is a break in the conversation. Kirk is getting wound up tighter and tighter. 
ERIC (CONT'D) So you're making a comfortable living, you seem like you got your head together more or less and Christ, look at ya. What the hell you doing with numbnuts here? 
MRS. KETTNER Eric! 
MR. KETTNER Now don't be that way, boy. All your big brother is trying to say is that we're worried about you. 
ERIC You show up here with that piece of ass!? Either you're fucking with us or she's fucking with you so which is it? 
KIRK Look, I know she's a little out of my league but... 
ERIC A little!? Are you shitting me? Alright, alright! I think we can all agree that Debbie here is one wicked hot box. 
Debbie smiles and squeezes Eric's hand. Mr. Kettner nods and raises his glass. 
KIRK She's um... very attractive. 
ERIC Yeah, and this Molly makes her look like a pig. 
Debbie lets go of Eric's hand and storms upstairs. 
ERIC (CONT'D) You see? This girl of yours is already startin' shit. (Calling after Debbie) Come on baby! Kirk didn't mean nothing by that! 
KIRK Look, I don't know what's going on either but... 
ERIC I'm goin' upstairs and gettin' to the bottom of this. 
KIRK Eric!   No! 
ERIC I think this gal is messing with my little brother and I'm not going to sit still for it. 
KIRK Eric! Okay! I know! I'm sure she's just slumming or something and it's all going to be over any minute but, Jesus Christ! She'll come to her senses without any help from you! She's up there with... 
Kirk turns to point up the stairs. As he glances back, he finds Molly standing on the steps listening and frowning down at him. Before Kirk can get a word out, Molly storms out of the house. Kirk runs upstairs but she's in her car before he can get out the front door. Eric appears behind him. 
ERIC Way to go numbnuts. You should have let me handle it. 
INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY 
Kirk stands at work, searching Habib's bag and looking grouchy. Fuller monitors Kirk, arms crossed. Habib lets out a long irritated sigh. 
KIRK I know.   I'm sorry, man. 
Kirk hands the bag back to Habib and sends him on his way. Randy, another agent, hands Kirk a note. 
INSERT: The note reads, "Kirk, We need to talk.     I'm in the food court. -M." 
Kirk sighs.   Stainer is now reading over Kirk's shoulder. 
STAINER Well, I guess this is it. I'm surprised she even bothered. 
INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT 
The food court is crowded.     Kirk looks around for Molly but does not see her. 
MARNIE (O.S.) Good, you got my note. 
Kirk turns to find Marnie sitting at a table working on a Burrito Supreme. 
KIRK Oh.     Yeah.     Hi. 
MARNIE I'm sorry to bug you at work but this couldn't wait. 
Kirk sits down. 
MARNIE (CONT'D) Kirk, I think I messed up. I see a change in you and I like it. So, I was thinking that we should maybe... get back together. Just to try it out, you know? 
KIRK Wow.    I don't know, Marnie. 
MARNIE Why not? Please don't say it's because of this Molly person. 
KIRK No, I think I already screwed that up anyway. 
MARNIE Good. I was really worried about you with her. She seems like kind of a bitch. 
KIRK What?    She is not. 
MARNIE Well, she acts like she's better than everyone with her hybrid car and her la-de-da charity work. 
KIRK She doesn't do that at all, Marnie. You're just putting that on her. 
MARNIE Okay, maybe so. See? This is what I mean. You never argued with me before. You're really growing. 
TALON It's Kirk right? (firm handshake) Excellent to see you again, sir. 
KIRK Oh, Talon.     You're a Blue Angel? 
TALON Yes sir, a Naval Aviator. 
KIRK Perfect. Okay, I get it - Talon is what - your call-sign? 
TALON No, it's my name. 
KIRK Then what's your call-sign? 
TALON Oh, I'd rather not say. It's embarrassing. Just something the guys gave me... 
Talon puts his arm around Kirk and walks him away from the booth. 
TALON (CONT'D) Anyway listen Kirk, is it fair to say that you and Mol are close? 
KIRK Yeah, I guess. 
TALON Well, I understand that fellas like yourself tend to have uniquely candid relationships with the women they befriend. Am I right? 
KIRK Fellas like myself? 
TALON Don't get me wrong. I have no problem with your lifestyle. What grown men do in the privacy of their homes is none of my concern. 
KIRK Talon, I'm not... 
TALON Hey, I'm in the Navy. I don't ask and I don't expect you to tell. 
Talon looks over his shoulder to confirm they are alone. 
TALON (CONT'D) Now, I don't know what Molly's told you about me, but anything bad - I deserve. I hurt that girl. I hurt one of God's own angels and I've regretted it every minute since. 
KIRK No.   She speaks very highly... 
TALON God as my witness, I WILL make it right. I WILL get her back. Can I count on you to put in the good word for me, Poncho? 
KIRK Um... Sure. 
TALON You're the man. Come here. 
Talon embraces Kirk in a tight hug. 
TALON (CONT'D) There you go. Feel the tolerance. 
Another Blue Angel calls over while signing Stainer's plane. 
BLUE ANGEL #2 Yo! Foot-Long! We scramble in ten. 
TALON Roger! 
Talon finishes the long hug. He and the other Blue Angels walk off in formation. Stainer rejoins Kirk. 
KIRK That was Talon. 
STAINER Who? The Blue Angel guy?    (cracking up) Duuuuude! 
Molly joins them. 
MONTAGE OVER LOUD CATCHY TUNE: 
1) Kirk and Molly walk arm in arm through the air show crowd. Kirk's POV as every guy that passes checks her out. Close on Kirk's proud expression. The Blue Angels take flight. Close on the planes as they weave in and out of an intricate formation. A wider shot reveals that their jet trails spell out "MOLLY" inside a heart. Reverse to pan across Molly (worried about Kirk's reaction), Kirk (trying not betray his insecurity) and Stainer (trying to hold back his laughter.) 
2) Kirk and Molly in a crowded movie theatre. She squeezes his hand and he smiles back at her. Molly turns back to the screen and Kirk's smile quickly degrades into a dirty look. The shot widens to reveal who Kirk is glaring at - another man (also with a date) sits on Molly's opposite side and stares down at her cleavage. The man looks up to meet Kirk's gaze and smiles back. He offers Kirk a fist-tap behind Molly's head. Annoyed, Kirk doesn't tap back. Molly is oblivious to this exchange. 
3) As Molly walks down a city sidewalk at night, Kirk has stopped to tie his shoe. When he trots after her to catch up, he is tackled by two cops. 
COP Nice try pervert! 
Molly spins around, horrified. 
COP (CONT'D) It's okay ma'am. This fat tub of shit was following you but we got him. 
Molly angrily grabs Kirk by the arm and frees him from the cop's grasp. 
4) Kirk, in his TSA uniform, addresses a group of patients at the Children's Cancer Center. He demonstrates a metal detector wand. Molly sits with the kids who look bored out of their minds. Suddenly, the kids light up and Kirk feels he's making an impression until he realizes that Talon has come up behind him. Talon is dressed in his flight suit and carrying an arm-load of toy jets. The kids excitedly jump up and gather 'round Talon; some even hug him. 
MOLLY A three what?   What are you talking about!? 
KIRK Look! What the hell is going on here!? What are you up to!? 
MOLLY What am I up to!?    Good God! 
KIRK Please, tell me you're a terrorist! Tell me you're on a scavenger hunt! Just tell me something that makes sense because all you're doing is driving me nuts! 
MOLLY (hurt and resigned) The only thing I'm going to tell you is that I'd like you to leave. 
KIRK Fine! I'm going! Webbed feet!? Are you fucking kidding me!? 
Kirk grabs his coat and heads out the door.    Molly slumps onto her bed and cries as the door slams. 
INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY 
Kirk is at his post looking terribly sad. Stainer is working at the same lane and is obviously feeling bad for his friend. 
Fuller taps Kirk on the shoulder to alert him that Habib is coming through. Habib sees this and takes his bag straight to the search table, where he opens it for Kirk. Kirk doesn't look inside. 
KIRK Go on, Habib. You're good. 
HABIB Really!?   Great! 
Habib steps off to his gate.   Fuller gets in Kirk's face. 
FULLER You think you're pretty smart don't you Kettner. Thin ice mister! 
Kirk stomps away from the checkpoint. 
FULLER (CONT'D) Good! Don't come back, Kettner! America is safer without you! 
Stainer goes after Kirk. 
EXT. AIRPORT CURB 
Kirk walks out the doors. Stainer catches up to him and they walk down the busy curb at a quick, angry pace. 
STAINER Kirky! Hold up, man! What are you doing!? You can't let her screw up your life! 
KIRK Get away from me Stainer! 
STAINER Whoa! Don't take it out on me! We both knew this Molly thing wasn't going to work out! It ain't my fault! 
KIRK You're right. It's not your fault. It's my fault for listening to all your... pernicious advice. 
STAINER What the fuck you talkin' about? 
KIRK All you did was fill my head with all this crap about threes and tens and how I'm not worthy. 
STAINER Are you worthy of a chick like that? 
KIRK Maybe! I don't know. But that's not the point! You're supposed to be my God damned best friend. You know what!? (MORE) 
KIRK (CONT'D) I think you were jealous and you set out to sabotage us from the start! 
STAINER That is total bullshit! 
KIRK Then why weren't you there for me? What if she actually liked me!? Maybe with a little help, I could have pulled it off! 
Kirk steps onto an... 
INT. AIRPORT SHUTTLE BUS 
Willy (the Russian) is behind the wheel and as happy as ever. A few others are seated on the bus. Stainer follows Kirk on board. They remain standing, holding onto poles. 
WILLY It is Kirk and his crazy friend Stinker and they are most upset! 
Willy steps on it and drives like a maniac, knocking Kirk and Stainer around as they argue. 
STAINER Kirk, she was going to hurt you. 
KIRK Look at me! I'm hurt now! 
Willy occasionally blurts out mindless echoes of their argument, which Kirk and Stainer mostly ignore, like... 
WILLY He's hurting now! 
STAINER (CONT'D) Ahhh!!   Jesus Christ!!! Kirk!! 
PATTY Who's your Mommy!?   Come on!   Who's your Mommy!? 
STAINER You are! 
PATTY That's right! Patty is, isn't she! 
KIRK Patty! Cut it out! I just came to tell her that something happened! Something really major happened! 
Patty stops punching and looks up curiously.      Stainer remains in the headlock - also curious. 
STAINER What happened? 
Patty punches him again. 
PATTY You shut your hole! (to Kirk) What happened? 
KIRK First off, I'm sorry.   Okay? 
Patty rams Stainer's head into the door. 
PATTY Every time you say you're sorry, dumbshit here gets his bell rung. 
KIRK Okay, okay! Sorry!     I just... 
Patty slams him again. 
STAINER Dude!   Stop apologizing! 
KIRK Look! I know I was acting like an idiot. She's just so... Well, I was really having a hard time with everyone thinking I was Molly's brother or her co-worker or her gay friend or whatever. I mean, nobody believed that we were together. 
PATTY It's too late for this shit, Kirk. 
KIRK But I've got it worked out now. 
Patty and Stainer wait for it. Kirk decides how to phrase it. 
KIRK (CONT'D) My Grandmother left me three million dollars. 
STAINER Seriously? 
Patty drops Stainer on the floor. 
PATTY I thought she was a blackjack dealer. 
KIRK It turns out she bought stock in Caesars Palace back in the sixties. Nobody knew she still had it. I don't think she even knew. 
PATTY Wow. So, what does this have to do with Molly? 
KIRK See?    Now it makes sense - me with her.    I'm a millionaire now. 
PATTY So, what, now you can afford her!? 
STAINER No! No! I get it! It's not a whore thing! Now it works out in his own mind. Right!? He can relax and stop acting like a freak because now he's bringing something to the table! Right, Kirky!? 
KIRK Right. Well, no. Now that you say it out loud... I don't know. 
PATTY You know what, Kirk - I told Molly you were different but you're just as shallow and full of shit as the rest of them, aren't you? 
KIRK Yeah, maybe I am. 
Kirk walks out. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY 
Stainer is at his post watching the luggage on the x-ray monitor. Suddenly, he sees Kirk coming through followed by Marnie, Mr. & Mrs. Kettner, Eric and Debbie (still pregnant). They are all wearing bright yellow sweatshirts. Stainer runs around the machine to hug Kirk, who looks a little numb. 
STAINER Kirky! How you been, brother!? What are you doing here? 
KIRK Me and Marnie and the family are going to Branson. You know. 
STAINER So you're "Branson Bound." 
Stainer is referring to Kirk's shirt that reads, "BRANSON BOUND" in big letters. 
STAINER The fuck you just call me!? 
TINA Oh, for Christ's!     Tammy!   Can you cover me!? 
INT. AIRPORT - SOUTHWEST GATE 
A large crowd of passengers are waiting to board.   The gate agent, makes an announcement. 
GATE AGENT Okay folks, we're going to start by boarding the A group. All A's are now welcome to board. 
Marnie butts into the line. 
MARNIE (SNOTTY) Look, I've got seven people in my party so we're going to need to board right away. 
GATE AGENT Are you folks in the A group? 
MARNIE What difference does that make!? 
GATE AGENT Well, because you seem like a little bit of a B. May I see your boarding pass? 
MARNIE Fine. We're not in the A group but we're still getting on next. 
She hands him the pass - marked "C." 
GATE AGENT Oh, it looks like you're a raging C. So, you're gonna want to take a seat until your group is called. 
She stomps away. 
INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT - LATER 
Stainer and Tina sit at a table. He sits with his head down like a sad little boy. She pities him. 
TINA I really liked you Elmer, but all that stuff about me being a ten and how lucky you were and always checking up to see if I was going to dump you... 
STAINER Well, you did dump me, so... 
TINA What could I do? You were all up in my business all the time. I couldn't breathe. 
STAINER It was my stupid job, wasn't it? You were embarrassed. 
TINA I work at Orange Julius, Elmer! If you would have just chilled out and been yourself... 
STAINER Okay, I can do that. 
She holds up her finger with an engagement ring on it. Stainer drops his head onto the table. Tina rubs his hair for a second and then walks away. 
INT. AIRPLANE - 737 - EVENING 
Kirk is somber as he finds his seat near the middle of the plane. From two rows back, Eric reaches over some other passengers to tap Kirk on the shoulder. 
ERIC Tom fuckin' Wopat, bro! 
Eric hangs up a high five and Kirk leaves it hanging. Kirk takes a seat on the aisle next to Marnie. He gives Marnie a forced smile. She puts her head on his shoulder. Pan over to the window seat where Ron sits watching them, wearing his new travel pillow. 
Suddenly, there is a commotion at the front of the plane. 
FLIGHT ATTENDANT What!? You don't have authority on board this aircraft! 
Stainer barges past the flight attendant, holding up his TSA badge. 
STAINER It's okay folks! TSA! This guy's drunk as fuck and he shit himself. We gotta get him off the plane. 
Stainer grabs Kirk by the shoulder, pulls him out of his seat and about two rows down the aisle before Kirk overpowers him and stops. 
KIRK Stainer!   What are you nuts!? 
STAINER You were right! I messed you up. We gotta fix this thing! Let's go. 
KIRK Stainer! No! Believe it or not, this isn't about you! In fact it's none of your business! 
STAINER Kirky! In junior high I peed my pants in class and Eric started calling me Stainer, remember? 
KIRK Okay, yeah? 
STAINER Pretty soon everyone else started calling me Stainer because they knew it would make me cry. Then you told me to own that name, to call myself Stainer so nobody could hurt me with it anymore. 
KIRK What's your point? 
A jacket is hanging by the door. Kirk reaches in and grabs the keys. He turns fast and exits. Fuller jacks Stainer's head onto the table. 
STAINER (CONT'D) Kirky wait! 
The door opens more slowly and Kirk regards his friend with great reverence. Stainer strains to lift his head against Fuller's strength. 
STAINER (CONT'D) Listen, Kirk. (dramatic pause and music) It's three on the tree and the clutch sticks. 
SLAM!   Stainer's head is jacked back onto the table. 
KIRK Thanks buddy! 
Kirk bolts. 
INT. HILTON - SMALL BANQUET ROOM 
This room is set up as a staging area for the cancer benefit. Patty and several others are buzzing around preparing for the next phase of the evening. Molly enters, holding a walkie talkie up to her head and speaking into it. 
MOLLY No, I need the staff ready to help with bids when the auction begins. - over. 
VOICE ON WALKIE-TALKIE I don't think we can spare anyone - over. 
Patty grabs the walkie talkie. 
PATTY Leslie! We're not here to feed these people, we're here to cure fucking cancer! (MORE) 
PATTY (CONT'D) Now I want every one of those motherfuckers back there taking bids in fifteen - out! 
Patty tosses the walkie-talkie back and then crosses to help a group of young cancer patients, some in wheelchairs, to unpack their sculptures and label them for the auction. 
A stressed-out woman in a BEEHIVE hairdo picks up a SMALL BOY's sculpture. She hails Molly. 
BEEHIVE Ms. McCall, we've got a big problem. 
MOLLY What is it? 
BEEHIVE This young man has made an ashtray. 
MOLLY Okay. Well, what do you want from me? Kids make ashtrays. 
BEEHIVE It's a cancer benefit. Don't you think this sends the wrong message? 
SMALL BOY It's a really nice ashtray. 
MOLLY They're not bidding on the artwork; they're bidding on the kids. It's fine. 
Beehive sighs hard and hands the ashtray back to the boy. 
Molly turns around and a look of surprise comes over her. 
MOLLY (CONT'D) What are you doing here!? 
Reverse to show Talon holding a ridiculously large flower arrangement. 
TALON I came to say I'm sorry and to put in a request for a second chance. 
VOICE ON WALKIE-TALKIE Ms. McCall, the auction is underway - over. 
MOLLY I'm sorry. I have to get in there. Can we talk about this afterwards? 
TALON I'm looking forward to it. 
INT. HILTON BALLROOM 
The emcee is taking bids on a little sculpture of an abstract four-legged animal. 
EMCEE Timothy Brigg's sculpture of a... fire truck? Sold to the woman in the green dress for four hundred fifty dollars. Congratulations ma'am and thanks so much. 
Molly picks up the small boy's ashtray and joins the emcee on stage. She takes a deep breath before facing the crowd. 
EMCEE (CONT'D) Our next item... Well, here she is folks, the woman who donates her time to make this amazing event possible, our own Molly McCall! 
Huge applause. 
MOLLY Thank you. Thanks, Bob. I'm so sorry for my tardiness. The next item up for bids is from nine-year- old Walter Benegan. And this is a... little something that you can put your paper clips or do-dads in... Oh, who am I kidding, it's an ashtray. (audience laughs) Let's start the bidding at one hundred dollars. 
MAN One hundred. 
The young sculptor beams. The crowd cheers again. Kirk gives a smile and a nod of resignation as he leaves the room. 
INT. HILTON BAR 
Kirk and Eric sit at the bar, each nursing a drink.   Eric is fuming. 
ERIC You are such a numbnut. I am telling you - absolute numbnuttery! 
MALE VOICE (O.S.) Excuse me.     May I use that ashtray? 
Kirk turns to find that he is sitting next to BILLY JOEL, who is smoking a cigar. Eric passes him the ashtray that Kirk just bought. 
ERIC Sure. Careful with it there, Captain Jack. It cost him three million bucks. 
Billy Joel, ashes in the ashtray. 
BILLY JOEL Yeah, I saw that. Tough break in there, my friend. Still, that was a hell of a good thing you did for those kids. 
KIRK Thanks. 
BILLY JOEL Beautiful women huh? What are you gonna do? 
KIRK I guess I'm going to go home. 
BILLY JOEL It's none of my business but I do know a thing or two about hooking up with women who are out of your league. Can I tell you a little secret? 
Kirk and Eric look at one another in disbelief and then at Joel. 
KIRK Sure. 
BILLY JOEL Look, it's not about money, fame or power... 
ERIC Whoa! All due respect there, Big Shot. How would you know? You had all that shit when you bagged the big ones. 
BILLY JOEL Yeah, but I had all that shit when I lost 'em too. It's not enough. 
ERIC You believe this fuckin' guy? 
KIRK Jesus Christ, Eric! I'm trying to get some advice from Billy Joel. Do you think you could manage to shut the fuck up for two minutes!? 
ERIC Fine.   Geeze. What's up your ass? 
BILLY JOEL Thank you. Look kid, it's not what you can give 'em or even what you can give up. It's what your made of. 
Joel places a cocktail in front of Kirk and then clinks his own against it. 
INT. HILTON BALLROOM - LATER 
ANNOUNCER Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome The Piano Man! The Entertainer! And our foundation's greatest champion! Mr. Billy Joel! 
The crowd cheers as the curtain rises.   The crowd's excitement turns to confusion. 
From the back of the room, Molly notices the crowd's reaction. She turns to see Kirk seated before the huge white grand piano, his hands sweaty and shaking over the keys. 
Kirk looks at the crowd.   Hundreds of confused faces stare back at him. 
Beehive rushes Patty in a panic. 
BEEHIVE Aren't you going to do something about this!? 
PATTY Lady, he just gave three million dollars. He can go up there and try to blow himself for all I care. 
Kirk wrings his hands as they shake harder. 
Billy Joel stands in the wings and gives Kirk a nod of, "You can do it." 
Molly turns to walk away but notes ring out from the piano and she stops. 
Kirk plays and sings "Just the Way You Are" - badly. His voice and hands shake but he forges on. The audience is confused, cringing and restless. 
Someone starts booing.   Kirk can't help but glance up to see who it is - it's Eric. 
When Kirk reaches the instrumental break, he settles in a bit - he can actually play. 
As the last note fades, Kirk leaps up, and runs out into the... 
EXT. HILTON BACK ALLEY 
