"SHIVERS" 
Screenplay by 
David Cronenberg 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
EXT. STARLINER TOWERS APARTMENT COMPLEX -- MORNING 
Starliner Towers is seen in LS through the windshield of a moving car. The car approaches the complex and stops near the main doors of the West Tower. 
Out of the car climb Kresimir and Benda Sviben, a gawky newly wed young couple. Kresimir elaborately opens the door for Benda, his new wife, and they walk with hands intertwined up the steps of the West Tower. 
INT. LOBBY -- MORNING 
As the Svibens approach the main doors, the doorman leaps up from his chair beside the intercom switchboard and opens the door for them. The doorman, like most security guards, does not look capable of handling a serious crisis. He is about fifty, of average height but slightly built, wears thick glasses and seems almost embarrassed by the revolver on his hip. 
DOORMAN Morning, folks. Can I help you? 
KRESIMIR Yes, please. I... er, we... are looking for the rental agent here. We have an appointment. 
DOORMAN OK, I'll just give him a little buzz and he'll come out and show you the way in. 
The doorman presses a button on the intercom board. As he turns back to the Svibens, he catches his holster on the board. 
DOORMAN (freeing holster) Darned thing. 
BENDA Do you ever use that? 
DOORMAN This? No, never even had it out of the holster. A rival company has 'em, so we gotta have 'em. Just an advertising gimmick. 
INT. ANNABELLE'S APARTMENT -- MORNING 
Dr. Emil Hobbes, a huge, florid, bearded man, is strangling Annabelle Horsefield. Despite the difference in their sizes -- Annabelle is tall and slender, about seventeen -- Hobbes is not having an easy time of it. Hobbes is wearing overlarge blue jeans and a red plaid shirt; Annabelle is in a private girls' school outfit -- white blouse, dark blue tie, blue knee socks, pleated gray skirt. 
Annabelle fights back fiercely; Hobbes has tears in his eyes. The struggle takes them all over her apartment, which, although sparsely furnished, presents enough objects in their way to cause a lot of crashing around. At one point Annabelle breaks loose and Hobbes has to chase her. 
Annabelle slips and Hobbes manages to pin her to the ground, where he has the advantage of leverage. He strangles her quickly and with tremendous, crazy energy. Blood oozes from her mouth. Hobbes places his hand over her mouth as though trying to prevent her from speaking, or to prevent something from leaving her body. 
He reaches over to his leather doctor's bag, which has spilled some of its contents on to the floor, finds a surgical clamp, and clamps Annabelle's lips together. He then picks up her body, carries it over to the dining-room table and sweeps the few cups and bottles on it off on to the floor. He then places her body with great tenderness on the table and begins to undress it. 
JANINE (V.O.) Breakfast is just about ready, Nick. 
Tudor pointedly doesn't answer, but continues with the water- pick until he is completely satisfied. He carefully packs the machine away, then leaves the bathroom. 
In the dining room, Janine is putting breakfast on the table. Tudor sits down without a word and begins to eat. Janine returns to the kitchen and comes back with a cup of coffee in each hand. She puts one cup in front of Tudor, sits down, starts to drink the other one. After a pause, she speaks. 
JANINE Can I call you at the office? 
TUDOR What do you want to call me at the office for? 
JANINE I don't know. I just thought I might want to call you. I don't know. 
TUDOR I won't be at the office except to sign in. (he eats heartily, not looking directly at Janine) I've got a lot of claims to check out. All over the place. Garages and more garages. (noticing Janine's silence, he finally looks up) I'll come home right after work. 
Janine continues to toy with the food in her plate. She shrugs once, as if to say, 'Big deal, so what?' Tudor ignores her and finishes breakfast. 
INT. A HALLWAY -- MORNING 
Tudor leaves his apartment, closing the door behind him (we see the number clearly). 
He walks down the hallway on automatic pilot, obviously preoccupied, turning the corner leading to the elevators without perceiving what he is seeing. 
At the elevators he hesitates for a moment, then presses the UP button. When the door opens, he steps in. 
INT. ELEVATOR -- MORNING 
In the elevator are Merrick, the rental agent, and the Svibens. 
MERRICK We're going up. 
TUDOR Oh. Well, I'll go along for the ride. 
MERRICK (after a pause, to the Svibens, indicating the elevator) Wood-grain paneling, strong, silent, fireproof, fast, cushioned ride. Everything you could want in an elevator. 
Nobody says another word until the doors spring open and Merrick, after a wink at Tudor, hustles the Svibens out of the elevator. 
As the doors close, Merrick's voice floats back to Tudor. 
MERRICK (V.O.) Notice how the entranceways to all the apartments are recessed and individually lit... Nope, it's down that way, Brenda. That's it... Recessed and individually lit... 
Once the door has closed, Tudor presses the button for the top floor. As the elevator ascends, he takes out his wallet and removes a key from a zippered compartment. 
DETECTIVE Dr. St. Luc? Detective-Sergeant Heller. I'd like to ask you a few questions. 
ST. LUC (obviously a bit dazed by what he has been seeing) Sure. 
DETECTIVE You're the one who found the bodies? 
ST. LUC Yes. 
DETECTIVE Did you touch anything? Move anything before we got here? 
ST. LUC No, nothing. 
DETECTIVE You knew these people? 
ST. LUC I knew the man, Emil Hobbes, a doctor and a professor at university. I saw the girl around the building but I didn't know her. She never came to the clinic. 
DETECTIVE So you just came up to visit this Hobbes and you found them like that? 
ST. LUC Oh, no. I haven't seen Dr. Hobbes since I was in medical school. He taught me... he was my prof in urology and... I think he conducted a few seminars in psychopharmacology. That was it. I had no idea he'd ever set foot in Starliner Towers until today. 
DETECTIVE I see. Then what brought you up here? 
St. Luc begins to pace about as he talks. 
ST. LUC It was very strange. He called me at six this morning. Hobbes called me. I thought I was dreaming. I haven't heard that voice for so long. He told me who it was, then he said something like, 'Meet me at apartment 1208 at noon. I want you to go out for lunch with me. It's time you furthered your education.' Then he laughed and hung up. I went back to sleep. He called me again at eight to remind me to come. 
DETECTIVE How did he sound this time? Was he nervous? Depressed? 
ST. LUC He sounded fine. 
The telephone rings. The super, who has been fiddling with a window with a cracked pane of glass, grabs the phone instinctively without looking at the detective, who probably would have answered it himself. 
SUPER (pause) Who? No, that's not me. You got the wrong guy. Just a sec. (looks up at St. Luc and holds out the phone to him) It's for you. Somebody wants to know how come you didn't show up for lunch. 
The detective looks suspiciously at St. Luc, who simply looks dazed. 
INT. ROLLO LINSKY'S LABORATORY -- AFTERNOON 
Next to a shallow porcelain tray full of immense and grotesque marine worm specimens lies a large parcel wrapped in brown paper. Rollo's plump fingers eagerly open the package to reveal a large variety of delicatessen sandwiches and accessories. 
Rollo offers some to St. Luc while stuffing one in his own mouth. There are Cokes and old coffees everywhere, plus mustard, relish, and ketchup dispensers of all kinds. Rollo and St. Luc sit around Rollo's desk, a very sleek metal affair. 
He is now in full flight. He leans over St. Luc and begins to demonstrate what he says by drawing things on St. Luc's stomach with his fingers. St. Luc can't hide his amusement. 
ROLLO You put the bug into the body of a man with a diseased kidney, the bug attacks the bad kidney, dissolves it, it's assimilated by the body, and now you got a perfectly good parasite where you used to have a rotten kidney. I know what you're gonna say. You're gonna say it's crazy. 
ST. LUC (laughing) It's crazy. 
Rollo throws himself back into his chair and grabs a pickle. 
ROLLO Right. It's crazy. But here's the beauty part. Ready? (leans forward for emphasis) Who cares? 
ST. LUC I don't get it. 
ROLLO You know and I know that Hobbes was a lousy teacher, eh? Lousy. Dry, academic, afraid of women, lousy. But he was always a genius at one thing -- getting grants. Could he get grants for crazy projects? 
St. Luc is about to say something, but Rollo answers his own rhetorical question with a flip of the hand, effectively silencing St. Luc. 
ROLLO You know who pays the rent here? Eh? The Northern Hemisphere Organ Transplant Society. And that's for something that's supposed to put them outta business. And they're not the only ones. We got grant money coming out of our ears. 
He leaps up again and pulls a sheaf of reprints from medical journals like the Journal of Venereal Disease, etc. He shoves them under St. Luc's nose, then grabs a jar with a disintegrating octopus-like creature in it and a sandwich at the same time. He smacks down the sandwich in front of St. Luc by mistake, then retrieves it and substitutes the jar with the specimen. 
St. Luc sifts through the papers and glances at the specimen. 
As St. Luc looks at the papers, Rollo breathes heavily down his neck and points out things of interest. 
ROLLO See? There? You take a little of this... that's a very rare venereal disease you get in the nomadic Crinua people, Northeast Asia and Japan. (points to a sexy picture of a Japanese lady in heat) Oo. That one's got it bad. They call it Batinh. That means 'kiss' or 'caress.' When you get it it makes your lips itchy, ya wanta kiss everything. I even had it once. I always get everything at least once so I know what the patient's talking about. (he laughs but he's serious) And there... you take a little of that... that's beautiful, isn't it? That's Flexipes, the world's only cephalopod parasite. (indicating the jar) That's him right there. Not a very good specimen. Related to squids and octopuses. See? He lives in the guts of whales and big dolphins. (wiggles a finger at the specimen) Ya like 'em big 'n hot 'n wet, don't ya? Yeah. 
He walks away from the desk. His manner is now more subdued and reflective. It seems as though everything he says provokes a dozen unspoken thoughts. His depressive phase is beginning. 
ROLLO We don't do it all here, we send out to have tricky stuff done... the cell fusion, enucleation, chromosomal fission, all that fancy close work. 
Rollo sighs heavily. St. Luc gently shoves all the papers aside. 
ST. LUC Rollo, how come Hobbes killed himself? 
Rollo toys with the gynecological examination table, sliding the stirrups in and out on their adjustment bars. 
ROLLO (shrugging) Funny in the head. High suicide rate in the medical profession. Too much body, alla time bodies, bodies. 
He now gets close to St. Luc, putting an arm around his shoulder. 
ROLLO Rog, I gotta talk serious to you. Really. Listen. Ya listening? OK. I want you to come into this with me. To tell the honest-to-God truth, I'm lonely. (begins to pace around again) All Hobbes ever did was run around getting money and phone me in the middle of the night. He wanted you in anyway. That's why we were gonna get together, the three of us. We would have enough to keep us going for at least five years, even with inflation. 
She leaves, closing the door behind her. 
Tudor sighs, taking a deep breath. He is suddenly hit by another twinge of pain. He clutches his stomach. Blood trickles out of the corner of his mouth. After a pause, he licks the blood off his lips with the tip of his tongue. 
INT. CLINIC RECEPTION AT STARLINER TOWERS -- AFTERNOON 
The Starliner Towers Medical Clinic is small but complete. Dr. St. Luc and his nurse, Forsythe, are backed up by a secretary-receptionist who sits behind a desk surrounded by filing cabinets at the end of the hallway which serves as reception area. There are chairs lined up against one wall, flanked by coffee tables piled high with the traditional two- year-old magazines. 
Three or four people sit waiting to see St. Luc, among them the aging but sprightly Mr. Parkins and Janine Tudor. Parkins, who considers himself something of a ladies' man, is talking to Janine when St. Luc appears and looks at the list of patients who have signed in. 
PARKINS ...and this Kriedler seems to think that mega-vitamin therapy may be the answer to the question of aging. That's not to suggest that the aging process is in any way reversible -- I don't think for a minute that it is -- but it may be stoppable, and that's where mega-vitamins come in... 
St. Luc gestures to Janine to follow him into his office. Janine gets up, excusing herself to Mr. Parkins. 
JANINE Excuse me, Brad. Gotta go. 
She follows St. Luc into his office. He closes the door behind her. 
INT. TAXICAB -- AFTERNOON 
The cab carrying Tudor pulls up at the main doors of the Towers. Tudor, still a bit unsteady, signs a chit for the driver and gets out of the car. 
INT. LOBBY -- AFTERNOON 
The doorman opens both doors for Tudor as he enters the building. 
DOORMAN Afternoon, Mr. Tudor. 
INT. ST. LUC'S OFFICE -- AFTERNOON 
Janine sits opposite St. Luc, who has a file open before him on his desk. 
ST. LUC Well, there's certainly nothing here in this check-up I did for your husband's company last year. Blood pressure a touch high, cholesterol count nice and low... (looking Janine in the eye) I just can't see cancer developing that fast, Janine, not the way you've described it. Could be swollen glands or something, I don't know. 
JANINE (a bit relieved but still tense) You'll come up and take a look at him? 
ST. LUC (standing up) If he can't make it down here... sure. That's what I'm here for. But it won't be until, oh... (checking his watch) ...9.30, say 10.00. OK? Not too late? 
Janine smiles and shakes her head. Just gotta have time to put the clinic to bed for the night and grab some supper. 
JANINE That's great, Doctor. Thanks. 
Forsythe leaves. Parkins chuckles to himself -- 'still life in the old boy yet' kind of feeling -- and begins to undress. 
INT. TUDOR'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 
Tudor staggers into the living room from the bathroom, wiping his mouth with a facecloth. He sits down on a chair facing the sliding glass door which leads to the apartment's balcony. 
He breathes heavily, gasping for air. His expression is a dazed one and he mumbles incoherently. After a moment's rest he rises, opens the glass door, and steps out on to the balcony. 
EXT. TUDOR'S BALCONY -- NIGHT 
Tudor hangs on to the railing of the narrow concrete balcony, gulping down the air, scanning the lights of the tower opposite. 
Suddenly the muscles of his neck go tense again, his mouth seems to gape open at the extreme limits imposed by muscle and jawbone, his hands fly up to his mouth in an attempt to keep down whatever is about to come up. 
Hanging over the railing of the balcony like an ocean traveler in a rough sea, Tudor finally gives up the struggle and hangs on for dear life as he retches, gags, moans, and finally vomits. 
EXT. GROUNDS BELOW TUDOR'S BALCONY -- NIGHT 
Two elderly women, Vi and Olive, are taking a leisurely evening stroll at the base of Tudor's tower. They both hold small transparent umbrellas over their heads and walk gingerly along the path bordering the lawn. 
Suddenly the liquid, fleshy thwack of the parasite vomited by Tudor from high above hitting one of the umbrellas is heard. A large splotch of blood spatters the first lady's umbrella just off center, as though it has been hit by a heavy, blood-soaked sponge. The force of the blow almost twists the umbrella from the first lady's frail hand, and she gives a little cry of surprise. 
Her companion extends a hand to help the first lady keep her balance, then gives a slightly more startled cry when she sees the blood. 
The first lady examines her umbrella as well, but does not react with such surprise. 
FIRST LADY (examining the bloodied umbrella) Aw. Poor birdie. They're always crashing into tall buildings. It's such a shame, such a shame. The windows fool them, you know. 
The creature, the second parasite to emerge from Tudor's body, lies in the grass, away from the bright cones of light thrown by the tower's lawn lamps. We can barely make out its bloody, twitching form. 
Beyond the parasite is a basement window through which is visible a large laundry room complete with washers and dryers. The window has been propped open a couple of inches by a bar of laundry soap. 
The first lady makes a move to find the injured creature, but her companion tightens her grip on the old lady's arm. 
COMPANION Come along, Olive. 
FIRST LADY Oh, Vi! Maybe the poor thing's just been hurt. Maybe we should look for him! 
COMPANION (pulling Olive along) Don't be silly, dear. It's in heaven now, whatever it is. Won't help at all for you to get into a fuss and muddle over it. Now come along and let's finish up our little evening stroll and get you tucked up in bed in front of the color TV. 
The two women walk off down the path, Vi's voice fading away in the shadows. 
ST. LUC (handing Parkins a slip of paper) I'm going to send you to the hospital to have a few X-rays taken. I want to find out exactly what you're hiding in there, OK? Give them this. The address is right there under Radiology. 
PARKINS Gonna cut me open? 
ST. LUC Well, let's wait for the X-rays. 
PARKINS Used to know a doctor who said he got to know his patients better than their wives did. (chuckles) Cutting a man open sure does expose more of him than pulling down his pants, gotta admit that. 
St. Luc smiles politely, his mind obviously elsewhere. 
INT. LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT 
A bar of laundry soap props open the window of the laundry room. The presence of the wounded parasite is indicated only by the glistening slime trail which streaks the section of wall immediately below the window. 
The hand of an old woman, puckered and wrinkled from many hours submerged in hot soapy water, reaches up, and yanks the bar of soap out of the jaws of the window. The window swing shut. The woman's hand slides the bolt home, locking the window from the inside. 
The old woman is short, dumpy, puffy-faced, in her late sixties. Her hair is carelessly tied in a bun on top of her head. 
She sniffles, shakes her head, turns away from the window, and walks across the room to the long bank of washers and dryers. As she walks she has to thread her way among the dozen or so shopping bags full of dirty laundry -- against apartment regulations, she takes in outsiders' laundry -- which she has brought down the elevator with her. 
She flips open the top of the first washer and begins to dig clothes out of the nearest shopping bag. 
From above and behind the washer, we watch her fill the machine and reach into the front of her dress, which is black and frayed. After feeling around for a few seconds, she pulls out a plastic bag filled with white granulated detergent. She dumps some of this into the washer, finds the appropriate coins in the pocket of her dress, and starts the machine. 
She watches it for a second to make sure it's working properly, then puts the plastic bag back where she found it. She picks up the bag she has almost emptied and shuffles in her ragged slippers to the next washer. She stops in front of it and puts down the bag. 
The old woman notices a slimy streak near the open hole of the washer. She grimaces, grabs a sock from the bag and cleans off the top of the washer with it. She tosses the sock into the washer and leans over the hole, trying to see inside. 
The parasite which has been lurking in the washer suddenly springs from the opening on to the old woman's face, suckering on to her flesh with its stubby tentacles. She shrieks and grabs at the creature with both hands, trying to pull it off. 
She stumbles back from the washer and begins to trip over various shopping bags. Finally she goes down amidst her laundry, thrashing and spilling clothes out everywhere. 
INT. STARLINER TOWERS GROCERY STORE -- NIGHT 
In the grocery store built into the base of one of the towers, Janine flips through some magazines, finally buying a Vogue. 
She stops to look at several shelves of various kinds of food, picking up this and that, but somehow the thought of cooking or even eating repulses her, and she leaves without buying anything but the magazine. 
INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Janine walks along a hallway, stops at a door, knocks gently, and then opens the door and walks in, obviously very familiar with the occupant. 
The first box she tries is empty. She advances to the next and the next, finally finding one that has a jug in it. She takes it and advances to Tudor's box, jug swinging, companion trailing after her in admiration. She stops at Tudor's milk box and flicks the door open. 
She looks inside, just about to reach for the jug that nestles back in the shadows. Ugh! What's that? 
The boy takes a look. Inside the box a third parasite can just be seen clinging to a three-quart white plastic milk jug. The jug is smeared with blood. The box's inside door is ajar. The TV set can be heard from inside the apartment. 
BOY I dunno. Guess the milk went bad. (shrugs) It's still worth money. 
The girl hesitates for a second. Suddenly the parasite twitches around to the front of the jug. The girl, startled, slams the box door shut. 
GIRL Jesus! 
BOY Let's get outta here before somebody hears us! 
The children run off down the hallway together. After a few seconds, the box door is nudged open again from the inside. 
INT. TUDOR'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Janine sits down in front of the TV set. After a moment or two she gets up, turns the set off, and flops back down on the sofa with her Vogue. 
She doesn't notice a trail of bloody slime leading from the bedroom to the inside door of the milk box. 
In the bedroom, a hand reaches down and pulls back a bedsheet to reveal a naked abdomen. It is Tudor's abdomen, and he reaches out with trembling fingers to touch a lump the size of a chicken egg stretching the skin to one side of his navel. 
Tudor watches the lump in the muted light of his bedroom. He gradually extends his hand toward the lump, which disappears the instant it's touched. 
TUDOR (delirious, voice strained, whispering) Come here, boy. Here, boy, here. 
He taps and scratches the skin near his navel, as though trying to lure a cat into attacking his fingers. 
He is propped up in bed, sweating profusely, half-dressed. He looks weak and drained, but still manages to smile with maniacal intensity, his eyes wide and bright. 
TUDOR Come on, fella. Thataboy. You and me, we're gonna be friends, aren't we? 
We can now see that the sheets are twisted, the pillows half off the bed. Tudor begins drumming on his abdomen. 
Gradually, cautiously, the lump under Tudor's skin returns. He tries to seize the lump with his fingers and it shrinks back, almost disappearing into his abdominal cavity again. 
Tudor seems disappointed. 
TUDOR No, no, no. Don't run away, boy. I'm not going to hurt you. Not going to hurt you. We're going to be friends. Friends. 
INT. ST. LUC'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
St. Luc sits at his desk and opens Parkins' file. Forsythe, about twenty-three, earthy and humorous, comes in with an armful of papers and records, which she throws in groups on to St. Luc's desk. 
FORSYTHE (distributing papers) OK, Roger. Here's the stuff you wanted. Files on Horsefield, Tudor, Swinburne, and Velakofsky. Papers published by Hobbes, Linsky, and Lefebvre in a couple of issues of the Bulletin of the Canadian Medical Association and also the Journal of the American Medical Association. And, as an added extra, a couple of odds and ends from the files I helped compile before your time here, Doctor. I thought they might interest you. 
ST. LUC That's great, Forsythe, great. Thanks. 
FORSYTHE Do I get a kiss? 
St. Luc is absorbed in his papers and doesn't respond. Forsythe prods his shoulder. He looks up at her. 
FORSYTHE Kiss, kiss? 
ST. LUC Uh, OK. Sure. 
They kiss, St. Luc making sure that it doesn't get too heavy. 
FORSYTHE Another kiss? 
ST. LUC C'mon, Forsythe. Are there any more on the list? 
FORSYTHE No. Dotty's the last. 
The telephone rings. St. Luc picks it up. 
ST. LUC Yes? 
ROLLO (V.O.) That you, Rog? 
ST. LUC (not recognizing the voice) Yes? 
ROLLO (V.O.) It's me, Rollo Linsky. Remember me? 
ST. LUC Rollo! How'sa boy? I was just thinking about you. 
Realizing that the conversation is likely to be a long one, Forsythe gets off the desk and walks over to a metal locker in the corner, which she opens. 
Inside are her street clothes. She begins to take off her nurse's uniform in full view of St. Luc, not being obvious about the distraction she's providing, but not taking pains to hurry dressing or be modest either. 
In the scene that follows we cut among three basic things: Rollo in his lab, talking and eating; St. Luc in his office, watching Forsythe get undressed and then dressed; and Hobbes's notes and scribblings, which do not necessarily have to be on the screen long enough to be completely read. Hobbes's notes are there more to convince the viewer that they exist and to provide flavor than to transfer information. 
ROLLO But the important thing for you is this: Hobbes used Annabelle as a guinea pig. He implanted her with the thing. I figure that once the parasites took, Annabelle went berserk. I dunno what she did, but Hobbes wasn't ready for it. He had to kill her. And he wasn't trying to burn her, he was burning them, all of them. 
INT. ST. LUC'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
St. Luc watches Forsythe, who is halfway through getting her street clothes on. He toys with the Velakofsky file, which contains abdominal X-rays showing dark, blurred masses inside the abdominal cavity. 
ST. LUC He didn't make it. 
ROLLO (V.O.) Huh? 
ST. LUC Maybe Hobbes didn't know it, but Annabelle was a pretty popular girl around Starliner Towers. I've got three men here, maybe four, who're hosting large, free-moving, apparently pathogenic, abdominal growths that nobody I've tried can identify. You were next on my list. 
INT. ROLLO'S LAB -- NIGHT 
ROLLO I'd kinda like to come over there and have a look at one of these guys. 
ST. LUC (V.O.) I've got a date with one of them at ten. Can you make it? 
ROLLO Yeah. (pause) Ah, I don't want to panic you or anything, but, I mean, the way Hobbes designed them, they're supposed to get out of hand real quick, so you don't have much time to think about what's happening to you. Once they decide to start pumping all those dynamite juices into the old blood stream... I dunno. But if you see some people doing kind of compulsive, maybe even bizarre sexual things... 
ST. LUC (V.O.) (laughing: he doesn't take this aspect too seriously) Yeah? What do I do then? 
ROLLO I dunno. Try tranquilizers. Once you can get at them, there's a lotta stuff you can use. I'll bring a bagful. It's just the standard tropical kit. But the trick is to get at them. 
INT. ST. LUC'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
Forsythe has finished dressing and is waiting for St. Luc to get off the phone. 
ST. LUC OK. It's apartment 1009, South Tower, Starliner Towers. May as well go there directly. 
ROLLO (V.O.) OK, Rog. See you at ten. 
St. Luc hangs up. 
FORSYTHE Roger? If you're going to be staying here anyway, why don't you come up to my place for a late supper? 
ST. LUC Meeting Rollo at Tudor's. Might take a while. 
FORSYTHE (innocently) Doesn't matter to me how late it is. I can keep it warm. 
St. Luc pushes his papers aside for a moment and stretches in his swivel chair. 
She suddenly reaches out and grabs Kurt by his tux with both hands and, with tremendous energy, jerks him back into her apartment and slams the door closed with a vicious kick. 
Kurt's cart remains out in the hallway, the food steaming. 
INT. BETTS' APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
In her dining room, Betts mixes herself a drink and checks her watch. She takes a sip, then goes into the bathroom and bends over the bathtub, having balanced her drink on the edge of the tub. 
From inside the drain of the tub we see Betts place the plug in the plughole. 
Betts turns on the water, adjusting the proportion of hot to cold until she gets it exactly the way she wants it, then gets undressed. 
She wraps a thick and colorful towel around her and goes out to the living room with her drink in hand. In the living room, she arranges her photos in a new order, props them up against the sofa, changes them around again. 
Back in the bathroom, Betts checks the temperature of the water by swishing her hand around in it. The water drums heavily on the floor of the tub. Betts puts her drink on the edge of the tub and turns the water off. 
She now drops her towel on to the bathmat and steps into the tub. She reaches over the edge of the tub to straighten her sandals on the bathmat, then picks up her drink and stretches back. She takes a big slug of her drink. Her toes curl in pleasure. 
The drain plug begins to jerk and twitch, as though something were trying to push it out from inside the drain. 
Betts sinks down in the water until her hair, short as it is, begins to float a bit. 
The drain plug begins to jerk more and more violently until it is pushed right out of its plug hole. The water begins to run out of the drain, but only in a slight trickle -- the drain pipe is blocked by a soft, spongy body. 
Betts rolls her head back and forth across the back of the tub, smiling, relaxed, enjoying the sensation. 
One of the parasite's stubby tentacles slowly appears, probing out of the drain hole. Then another appears, then another. 
Betts puts down her drink on the tub's edge and reaches for the soap and washcloth. Her eyes are half-closed and a smile still flickers about her lips. The sound of water suddenly rushing out of the drain in volume rouses Betts out of her reverie. 
She sits up and looks down toward the plug end of the tub. The parasite is crawling toward her up the middle of the tub, almost touching her legs, which are pressed together against one side of the tub. The water is becoming pink with the blood that diffuses through it. 
Betts' mouth opens slowly and her eyes are wide. Her reactions are obviously being confused by the drinks she has recently had. 
Under the water, now very shallow, the parasite's tentacles touch Betts's thighs. 
Betts tries to scream but can't. The parasite suckers its way between Betts' thighs. She screams a silent scream in the tub, her mouth wide open, her head rolling from side to side. The only sounds are the thrashing of her legs in the water and the gurgle of the drain. 
With a spasm that shakes her whole body, Betts throws her arms wide and knocks her glass off the edge of the tub and on to the tiles of the bathroom floor. The glass shatters. After a moment or two of further silent struggle, Betts arches her back, then falls into a semi-conscious stupor, slumping motionless in the tub. 
INT. TUDOR'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
She opens the oven door, then takes a bone-handled carving fork from a carving set and begins to prod at a roast in a ceramic roasting dish. 
Someone knocks on the door. Forsythe leaves her oven and goes to answer it, carving fork in hand. 
She opens the door. Kresimir Sviben stands in the hallway, eyes wide, insane smile on his face. He looks at Forsythe as though she were a piece of steak. 
FORSYTHE Yes? 
Kresimir doesn't answer. He begins to drool, his mouth working as though in anticipation of a meal. Forsythe gets a little nervous. 
FORSYTHE Can I... can I help you? 
Kresimir approaches. He is visibly shaking. 
KRESIMIR (speaking with difficulty) Yes... you can... help me. 
Without warning, he lunges for Forsythe, who vainly tries to slam the door in his face. Kresimir pushes his way past the door and grabs Forsythe by the back of the head, trying to kiss her and drooling. 
Forsythe breaks away and runs toward the bathroom, intending to lock herself in. Kresimir throws himself at her legs, managing to grab one of her feet. She doesn't fall, but holds on to a cabinet and tries to pull free. 
Kresimir begins to climb up her body. Forsythe, terrified and gasping for breath, plunges the long, curved prongs of the carving fork into Kresimir's shoulder. He screams with pain and loosens his grip on Forsythe long enough for her to pull away, leaving her apron and part of her dress in Kresimir's hands. 
She runs for the door and is gone. 
Kresimir, still on his knees, holds the apron and the piece of dress to his face, breathing in Forsythe's fragrance. He begins to shuffle toward the door on his knees, kissing the clothes in his hands, mumbling and moaning. 
KRESIMIR Oh, my darling, I worship, I worship at the shrine of your body, your body, your body, oh, your body... 
INT. BETTS'S BATHROOM -- NIGHT 
Betts lies slumped in her bathtub, her hair matted and damp, her eyes open and staring. Her mouth begins to work in a very sensual way, and she begins to drool slightly. 
The tub is completely empty now except for the scum of blood and soap. The smashed glass is scattered all over the floor near the base of the tub. 
Zombie-like, Betts rises from the tub and steps out on to the floor, her feet missing the bathmat. The crunch and snap of her bare feet on the broken glass are heightened abnormally by the tiled echo chamber of the bathroom. 
The steps Betts takes toward the medicine cabinet leave bloody prints on the floor. 
Betts takes out various bottles and plastic cases and tubes from the medicine cabinet and begins to apply make-up to her face with mechanical precision. 
INT. ST. LUC'S OFFICE -- NIGHT 
The doorman watches as the numbers show that the elevator is finally coming down. He stands by, waiting to see who or what has caused the elevator to stay at one floor for so long, jingling his keys, trying to look stern and authoritarian. 
The doors spring open. Kurt stands at the back of the elevator, one arm around the young girl, who hugs him tightly. The girl is finishing the last bit of one of the crêpes, sucking her fingers deliciously. 
The mother sits slumped in the opposite corner, her coat open, her dress torn, bruises on her face. She struggles to her feet. Kurt and the girl are ignoring her. 
The doorman is nonplussed. He hesitates, then makes a move toward the elevator, intending to help the woman to her feet. 
DOORMAN Here, here. What is this all about? What's the matter with you? What are you doing in there? 
The woman suddenly lunges at the doorman and tries to pull him down. Kurt detaches himself from the girl and joins her. They giggle and drool all over the doorman as they pull him down and pin him to the floor. 
The daughter, still licking her fingers, slowly approaches the doorman. 
DOORMAN Hey, that's enough, enough of this nonsense! What is this? (Etc.) 
The daughter kneels at the doorman's feet, then crawls over him, her mouth working, drooling. She lowers her lips over his, Kurt making it impossible for the doorman to move his head out of the way. 
INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Forsythe and St. Luc are hurrying to Forsythe's apartment to see if Kresimir is still there. As they round a corner, they see the Spergazzis coming toward them, the old lady hobbling and hysterical, the old man helping her walk as best he can, trying to maintain some kind of calm. 
When Spergazzi sees St. Luc, he lifts his four-pronged cane and waves it around to get attention. 
MR. SPERGAZZI Hey, Doctor, Doctor! Please. Help us! 
St. Luc and Forsythe rush over and help to support the slumping Mrs. Spergazzi. 
ST. LUC What happened? 
MR. SPERGAZZI (tipping his hat as he introduces himself even in the midst of chaos) Please pardon me. I am Niccolo Spergazzi. I am a resident here. I don't know... we were walking in the hallway and... Cabiria... my wife... she was attacked by this thing... here, on her arm. 
Spergazzi shows St. Luc his wife's forearm, which has been badly burned by the parasite's animal-tissue solvent. As soon as St. Luc starts prodding her arm, Mrs. Spergazzi starts to wail in Italian. Spergazzi tries to soothe her as St. Luc examines her carefully. 
MR. SPERGAZZI It's all right, cara mia. What's one more scar to an old lady, eh? You'll be OK. 
The old lady wails even more. 
ST. LUC Where is this thing that attacked your wife? 
MR. SPERGAZZI I hit it. I hit it with my cane. Then I carry it on the cane and I throw it down to the incinerator, down to the garbage. 
JANINE (now in tears) Oh, Nick, Nick... I can't take this. 
TUDOR Please, Janine. Please, pleasepleaseplease, Janine Janine JanineJanineJanine... 
Janine hesitantly helps Tudor remove his shirt and begins to caress him in a perfunctory way, tears in her eyes. Her caresses make Tudor moan with pleasure. 
TUDOR Love me. Oh, Janine, you're so beautiful. You're my wife. Mmm. You're my wife. 
Janine's hand sweeps across Tudor's abdomen. She pulls her hand away, startled, obviously having just felt a few of Tudor's lumps. 
She looks up at Tudor's face with a mixture of horror and wonder in her eyes. Tudor is confused; he doesn't want the caresses to stop. 
TUDOR (pleading) You're my wife, Janine. Please make love to me. 
INT. SPERGAZZI APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
The Spergazzi apartment is very heavily decorated in the Mediterranean European Catholic style, featuring lots of plastic and plaster Madonnas, calendars with Christ exposing his bleeding heart, etc. 
Mrs. Spergazzi lies on an overstuffed couch with her wrist held up for Forsythe to bandage after she coats it with a healing gel. Mrs. Spergazzi wears a suffering-martyr expression. Mr. Spergazzi leans over the back of the couch patting his wife's other hand solicitously. 
INT. INCINERATOR ROOM -- NIGHT 
The steel door at the top of a concrete flight of stairs swings open and St. Luc appears. He quickly negotiates the steps and opens the steel door at the bottom which leads to the incinerator room. 
Once inside, St. Luc grabs the poker hanging from an iron hook sunk into the wall of the incinerator, slides open the bolt on the door and opens it. 
He begins to probe around inside the incinerator oven but can't really see very much. He looks around and notices the superintendent's flashlight stuck up on top of a heating pipe. St. Luc takes down the flashlight, switches it on, and continues his search for the dead parasite. 
INT. TUDOR'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Tudor lies on top of Janine on their bed. Over his shoulder, Janine's face is visible, eyes wide open and full of tears. She tries to push Tudor away, but he resists. 
JANINE (frantically) No, no. Nick, please. Stop. Let's stop. I... I want to put my contacts in... I can't see anything... 
Tudor pulls her back to him, and finally she is forced to batter him away with her fists and slip off the edge of the bed. Tudor glares after her. 
TUDOR (in a mechanical whine) Make love to me, make love to me, love, love to me... 
JANINE (trying to buy time) I want to be able to see us, Nick. I... I'm going to go into the bathroom now and put in my contacts, OK? Is that OK? (pleading with him to believe her) I want to be able to see us when we make love, OK? 
Tudor's eyes are staring right out of his head and his mouth is wide open. He gasps for breath. He stares at Janine for a second, then buries his face in the blankets, twisting them in his hands and moaning. 
Janine's eyes are wide with terror. She utters a gurgling cry and runs, stumbling, from the bedroom. She dashes through the living room and reaches the door to the hallway, whimpering in terror as she fumbles at the lock and the doorknob, finally managing to swing the door open. 
INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
Janine runs down a hallway that leads to Betts's apartment, sobbing and stumbling. She gets to Betts's door and opens it without hesitation. 
INT. BETTS' APARTMENT -- NIGHT 
Janine enters Betts' apartment. She looks around for Betts. 
JANINE Betts? Betts? It's me. 
She catches sight of Betts standing out on the balcony, looking across at the North Tower's lights. Betts turns slowly. She is wearing immaculate but very extreme make-up. Janine is slightly taken aback -- it's not Betts' style. 
Betts smiles and opens her arms to Janine. 
INT. ROLLO'S LAB -- NIGHT 
Rollo puts his jacket on, picks up his doctor's bag and a manila envelope jammed solid with Hobbes's notes, and leaves his lab, turning off the lights and locking the door behind him. 
EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF ROLLO'S LAB -- NIGHT 
Rollo gets into his car, which is parked in a now empty parking lot adjacent to the building in which his lab is situated. His car is large and American and ostentatious, a gold Cadillac Eldorado with options or equivalent. 
The car pulls out of the lot and on to the street. 
INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT 
The doorman, drooling and twitching, locks the exit doors at the end of one hallway. In one hand he holds an enormous pair of cable cutters. 
INT. INCINERATOR ROOM -- NIGHT 
St. Luc continues to poke around inside the incinerator with the poker. Finally his flashlight beam reveals the tattered corpse of Spergazzi's parasite. 
Deftly manipulating the hook on the poker's tip, St. Luc manages to pull the parasite out into the light. Garbage comes rattling down the chute. When St. Luc flashes his light into the oven, we see that the garbage consists of Betts' French food, half-eaten, silver servers and all, the snails being especially prominent. Insane giggles echo down the chute, followed by the slam of the chute door somewhere several floors above. 
St. Luc holds the thing up to the naked light bulb above the incinerator. The light seems to go right through the parasite, illuminating the twisted vascular system, reproductive organs, etc. 
As St. Luc examines the creature, which is still impaled on the hook of the poker, the door to the incinerator room opens behind him. A large, hairy, muscular man enters the room and approaches the oblivious St. Luc. 
The man slips his arms up under St. Luc's arms and kisses him passionately on the neck. As soon as St. Luc realizes what's happening, he smashes the man in the chest with his elbow and pulls free. 
ROLLO Just a peek, OK? A little peek won't hurt. 
Tudor's abdomen is gradually exposed as the covers are drawn back. Crouched in the shadows is one of the freshly emerged blood parasites, which sits poised for only a fraction of a second before it springs at Rollo's face with great energy. 
As the thing hits Rollo's face it locks on to his head by entangling its stubby tentacles in his hair and attaching its suckers to his cheeks and chin. 
Rollo tries to stand, then staggers and falls. The thing tries to force its way into Rollo's mouth, cutting his lips in the process. They bleed furiously. When Rollo manages to pull a sucker away, a piece of his flesh comes with it. 
As he writhes on the carpeted floor, two more parasites appear crawling toward him from under the bed, covered with dust from the floor. They clamber on to him and fasten on to his face, suckering on to his ears, his throat, forehead, eyelids. One of them begins to ooze corrosive fluid on to his face. Rollo screams in pain. 
He manages to roll to his feet. He staggers out of the darkness of the bedroom into the living room, one arm extended, groping like a blind man, the three parasites still locked on to his face. They try to pull his lips apart, but he keeps his teeth firmly clenched to keep them from forcing their way into the depths of his body. 
He takes a few unbalanced steps toward the kitchen. With a sudden spasm of pain, he hurls himself sideways into the kitchen and almost falls again, grabbing at the last moment on to the sink. 
His hands touch a large pair of pliers, a screwdriver, and a hammer on the counter by the sink, left there by Tudor weeks ago. Rollo seizes the pliers and begins to pull the parasites from his face with their steel jaws. The parasites, swollen with Tudor's blood, burst and spurt as the pliers tear them apart. 
In the bedroom, Tudor's eyes snap open. His head rises from the pillow. 
He swings his legs over the side of the bed and, ashen and gaunt, shakes his head slowly as though waking from a dream. He begins to mumble. 
TUDOR No, no, no, no. Mustn't, mustn't. You mustn't kill them, no, no, no. 
Then, as though listening to himself and suddenly understanding what he is saying, he rises to his feet shakily and walks to the kitchen. He stops at the kitchen door. 
Rollo has torn the parasites from his face and is pounding away at them in the kitchen sink. The parasites wriggle and curl in their own blood in the sink as he smashes away at them with the pliers. 
Tudor staggers toward Rollo. 
TUDOR No, no. You mustn't kill them. That's my blood you're spilling! My blood! Let them come home, let them come home, home, home inside me. Don't kill them...! 
He starts to paw Rollo, feebly trying to prevent him from further mutilating the parasites. He reaches over St. Luc's shoulder and grabs a large chunk of one of the parasites. 
TUDOR (whining pitifully) At least save me one! For God's sake! At least save me one. One, one, one, one... 
Rollo turns as Tudor begins to shove the piece of flesh back down his throat. 
As Rollo turns we see that bits of tentacles and suckers are still attached to his cheeks, throat, forehead. His face is melting and smoking in areas where it has been burned by the corrosive fluid on one side. He stares in rage at Tudor. 
With a scream, Rollo strikes Tudor with the pliers. Tudor falls, hitting his head on various chairs and protruding corners as he goes down, the chunk of parasite still in his mouth as he finally comes to rest, twitching, on the floor. Rollo drops the pliers on the floor. 
He stares at Tudor in shock. His face is reflected in a copper frying pan hanging over the stove. Noticing the reflection, Rollo leans over to get close to his own horrible image. He gingerly touches his face, inspecting the damage, shivering and moaning. 
INT. STAIRWELL -- NIGHT 
As St. Luc begins to ascend the stairs, we can see tiny black hooks tearing through Forsythe's gag. Blood begins to soak through from the inside. 
A group of residents suddenly appear at the next landing above St. Luc and, noticing them, begin to walk down the steps, moaning and crooning and making vaguely sexual gestures toward the pair. 
Blood is now pouring from Forsythe's mouth and tentacles are groping for leverage at her cheeks and chin. 
St. Luc decides to attempt to shoulder his way up the stairs, certain that Rollo and the police must be at the main doors. 
As he hits the residents on the stairs, they try to kiss him, caress him, pull his clothes off. They finally manage to drag Forsythe from his shoulders, almost unbalancing him as they do so. St. Luc tries to prop her up on her feet, but she's completely limp. St. Luc holds Forsythe against the stairway wall as residents mill all about them. He looks at her in sudden hopelessness. 
ST. LUC (shouting) Forsythe! Forsythe! 
The parasite is now half out of her mouth, hanging through the slit it has torn in her gag. 
St. Luc lets go of Forsythe and she sinks to the floor. The residents are swarming all over them. St. Luc abandons Forsythe and begins to fight his way up the stairs. 
He runs higher and higher, up flight after flight of stairs, until he is free of the slow-moving residents. He leans back against a wall, panting. 
Crooning and moaning echo up to him from below. He leans over the railing and looks down. 
In the stairwell several flights below, Forsythe lies surrounded by milling residents, legs spread as though about to give birth. A resident leans over and pulls the parasite from her mouth, then swallows it whole with gusto. Other residents touch her, stroke her, caress her, as though offering her a strange kind of comfort. 
St. Luc reels with disgust and disbelief. He turns and runs. 
INT. SWIMMING POOL -- NIGHT 
Between the two towers lies the swimming pool. St. Luc manages to reach the door leading from the South Tower into the pool. He hangs on to the door of the pool itself for a moment in near exhaustion, then opens it and enters. 
The pool is dim and tranquil. Two women are swimming in the deep end as though nothing were at all abnormal. 
St. Luc watches them for a moment, enjoying the apparent normalcy of the scene. Then he staggers forward, calling out to the swimmers. 
ST. LUC Have you seen the police? I'm Dr. St. Luc. Have you seen the police? Have they come? 
The swimmers both flick playfully beneath the water's surface. St. Luc approaches the water's edge, waiting for them to surface. The water ripples and bubbles near his feet. A sinking feeling comes over him. He watches in horrible fascination. He begins to shiver. 
The ripples and bubbles spread and intensify. After a pause, Janine surfaces, smiling radiantly. A few seconds later, Betts surfaces near her, the very picture of benign, watery calm. Betts gestures to St. Luc to join them in the pool. 
St. Luc shakes his head slowly, backing away from the pool. 
