SHREK 
Written by 
William Steig & Ted Elliott 
SHREK Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. But she had an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort which could only be broken by love's first kiss. She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon. Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison, but non prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep in the highest room of the tallest tower for her true love and true love's first kiss. (laughs) Like that's ever gonna happen. What a load of - (toilet flush) 
Allstar - by Smashmouth begins to play. Shrek goes about his day. While in a nearby town, the villagers get together to go after the ogre. 
NIGHT - NEAR SHREK'S HOME 
MAN1 Think it's in there? 
MAN2 All right. Let's get it! 
MAN1 Whoa. Hold on. Do you know what that thing can do to you? 
MAN3 Yeah, it'll grind your bones for it's bread. 
Shrek sneaks up behind them and laughs. 
SHREK Yes, well, actually, that would be a giant. Now, ogres, oh they're much worse. They'll make a suit from your freshly peeled skin. 
MEN No! 
SHREK They'll shave your liver. Squeeze the jelly from your eyes! Actually, it's quite good on toast. 
MAN1 Back! Back, beast! Back! I warn ya! (waves the torch at Shrek.) 
Shrek calmly licks his fingers and extinguishes the torch. The men shrink back away from him. Shrek roars very loudly and long and his breath extinguishes all the remaining torches until the men are in the dark. 
SHREK This is the part where you run away. (The men scramble to get away. He laughs.) And stay out! (looks down and picks up a piece of paper. Reads.) "Wanted. Fairy tale creatures."(He sighs and throws the paper over his shoulder.) 
THE NEXT DAY 
There is a line of fairy tale creatures. The head of the guard sits at a table paying people for bringing the fairy tale creatures to him. There are cages all around. Some of the people in line are Peter Pan, who is carrying Tinkerbell in a cage, Gipetto who's carrying Pinocchio, and a farmer who is carrying the three little pigs. 
GUARD All right. This one's full. Take it away! Move it along. Come on! Get up! 
HEAD GUARD Next! 
GUARD (taking the witch's broom) Give me that! Your flying days are over. (breaks the broom in half) 
HEAD GUARD Get her out of my sight. 
OLD WOMAN No, no! I swear! Oh! He can talk! 
The guards grab the old woman and she struggles with them. One of her legs flies out and kicks Tinkerbell out of Peter Pan's hands, and her cage drops on Donkey's head. He gets sprinkled with fairy dust and he's able to fly. 
DONKEY Hey! I can fly! 
PETER PAN He can fly! 
3 LITTLE PIGS He can fly! 
HEAD GUARD He can talk! 
DONKEY Ha, ha! That's right, fool! Now I'm a flying, talking donkey. You might have seen a housefly, maybe even a superfly but I bet you ain't never seen a donkey fly. Ha, ha! (the pixie dust begins to wear off) Uh-oh. (he begins to sink to the ground.) 
He hits the ground with a thud. 
HEAD GUARD Seize him! (Donkey takes of running.) After him! 
GUARDS He's getting away! Get him! This way! Turn! 
Donkey keeps running and he eventually runs into Shrek. Literally. Shrek turns around to see who bumped into him. Donkey looks scared for a moment then he spots the guards coming up the path. He quickly hides behind Shrek. 
HEAD GUARD You there. Ogre! 
SHREK Aye? 
HEAD GUARD By the order of Lord Farquaad I am authorized to place you both under arrest and transport you to a designated resettlement facility. 
SHREK Oh, really? You and what army? 
He looks behind the guard and the guard turns to look as well and we see that the other men have run off. The guard tucks tail and runs off. Shrek laughs and goes back about his business and begins walking back to his cottage. 
DONKEY Can I say something to you? Listen, you was really, really, really somethin' back here. Incredible! 
SHREK Are you talkin' to...(he turns around and Donkey is gone) me? (he turns back around and Donkey is right in front of him.) Whoa! 
DONKEY Yes. I was talkin' to you. Can I tell you that you that you was great back here? Those guards! They thought they was all of that. Then you showed up, and bam! They was trippin' over themselves like babes in the woods. That really made me feel good to see that. 
SHREK Oh, that's great. Really. 
DONKEY Man, it's good to be free. 
SHREK Uh, what? 
DONKEY Can I stay with you, please? 
SHREK (sarcastically) Of course! 
DONKEY Really? 
SHREK No. 
DONKEY Please! I don't wanna go back there! You don't know what it's like to be considered a freak. (pause while he looks at Shrek) Well, maybe you do. But that's why we gotta stick together. You gotta let me stay! Please! Please! 
SHREK Okay! Okay! But one night only. 
DONKEY Ah! Thank you! (he runs inside the cottage) 
SHREK What are you...? (Donkey hops up onto a chair.) No! No! 
DONKEY This is gonna be fun! We can stay up late, swappin' manly stories, and in the mornin' I'm makin' waffles. 
SHREK Oh! 
DONKEY Where do, uh, I sleep? 
SHREK (irritated) Outside! 
DONKEY Oh, well, I guess that's cool. I mean, I don't know you, and you don't know me, so I guess outside is best, you know. Here I go. Good night. (Shrek slams the door.) (sigh) I mean, I do like the outdoors. I'm a donkey. I was born outside. I'll just be sitting by myself outside, I guess, you know. By myself, outside. I'm all alone...there's no one here beside me... 
SHREK'S COTTAGE - NIGHT 
Shrek is getting ready for dinner. He sits himself down and lights a candle made out of earwax. He begins to eat when he hears a noise. He stands up with a huff. 
SHREK (to Donkey) I thought I told you to stay outside. 
DONKEY (from the window) I am outside. 
There is another noise and Shrek turns to find the person that made the noise. He sees several shadows moving. He finally turns and spots 3 blind mice on his table. 
BLIND MOUSE1 Well, gents, it's a far cry from the farm, but what choice do we have? 
BLIND MOUSE2 It's not home, but it'll do just fine. 
GORDO (bouncing on a slug) What a lovely bed. 
SHREK (flabbergasted) By who? 
LITTLE PIG Lord Farquaad. He huffed and he puffed and he...signed an eviction notice. 
SHREK (heavy sigh) All right. Who knows where this Farquaad guy is? 
Everyone looks around at each other but no one answers. 
DONKEY Oh, I do. I know where he is. 
SHREK Does anyone else know where to find him? Anyone at all? 
DONKEY Me! Me! 
SHREK Anyone? 
DONKEY Oh! Oh, pick me! Oh, I know! I know! Me, me! 
SHREK (sigh) Okay, fine. Attention, all fairy tale things. Do not get comfortable. Your welcome is officially worn out. In fact, I'm gonna see this guy Farquaad right now and get you all off my land and back where you came from! (Pause. Then the crowd goes wild.) Oh! (to Donkey) You! You're comin' with me. 
DONKEY All right, that's what I like to hear, man. Shrek and Donkey, two stalwart friends, off on a whirlwind big-city adventure. I love it! 
DONKEY (singing) On the road again. Sing it with me, Shrek. I can't wait to get on the road again. 
SHREK What did I say about singing? 
DONKEY Can I whistle? 
SHREK No. 
DONKEY Can I hum it? 
SHREK All right, hum it. 
Donkey begins to hum 'On the Road Again'. 
DULOC - KITCHEN 
A masked man is torturing the Gingerbread Man. He's continually dunking him in a glass of milk. Lord Farquaad walks in. 
FARQUAAD That's enough. He's ready to talk. 
The Gingerbread Man is pulled out of the milk and slammed down onto a cookie sheet. Farquaad laughs as he walks over to the table. However when he reaches the table we see that it goes up to his eyes. He clears his throat and the table is lowered. 
FARQUAAD Evening. Mirror, mirror on the wall. Is this not the most perfect kingdom of them all? 
MIRROR Well, technically you're not a king. 
FARQUAAD Uh, Thelonius. (Thelonius holds up a hand mirror and smashes it with his fist.) You were saying? 
MIRROR What I mean is you're not a king yet. But you can become one. All you have to do is marry a princess. 
FARQUAAD Go on. 
MIRROR (chuckles nervously) So, just sit back and relax, my lord, because it's time for you to meet today's eligible bachelorettes. And here they are! Bachelorette number one is a mentally abused shut-in from a kingdom far, far away. She likes sushi and hot tubbing anytime. Her hobbies include cooking and cleaning for her two evil sisters. Please welcome Cinderella. (shows picture of Cinderella) Bachelorette number two is a cape-wearing girl from the land of fancy. Although she lives with seven other men, she's not easy. Just kiss her dead, frozen lips and find out what a live wire she is. Come on. Give it up for Snow White! (shows picture of Snow White) And last, but certainly not last, bachelorette number three is a fiery redhead from a dragon-guarded castle surrounded by hot boiling lava! But don't let that cool you off. She's a loaded pistol who likes pina colads and getting caught in the rain. Yours for the rescuing, Princess Fiona! (Shows picture of Princess Fiona) So will it be bachelorette number one, bachelorette number two or bachelorette number three? 
GUARDS Two! Two! Three! Three! Two! Two! Three! 
FARQUAAD Three? One? Three? 
THELONIUS Three! (holds up 2 fingers) Pick number three, my lord! 
FARQUAAD Okay, okay, uh, number three! 
MIRROR Lord Farquaad, you've chosen Princess Fiona. 
FARQUAAD Princess Fiona. She's perfect. All I have to do is just find someone who can go... 
MIRROR But I probably should mention the little thing that happens at night. 
FARQUAAD I'll do it. 
MIRROR Yes, but after sunset... 
FARQUAAD Silence! I will make this Princess Fiona my queen, and DuLoc will finally have the perfect king! Captain, assemble your finest men. We're going to have a tournament. (smiles evilly) 
DuLoc Parking Lot - Lancelot Section 
Shrek and Donkey come out of the field that is right by the parking lot. The castle itself is about 40 stories high. 
DONKEY But that's it. That's it right there. That's DuLoc. I told ya I'd find it. 
SHREK So, that must be Lord Farquaad's castle. 
DONKEY Uh-huh. That's the place. 
SHREK Do you think maybe he's compensating for something? (He laughs, but then groans as Donkey doesn't get the joke. He continues walking through the parking lot.) 
FARQUAAD Brave knights. You are the best and brightest in all the land. Today one of you shall prove himself... 
As Shrek and Donkey walk down the tunnel to get into the arena Donkey is humming the DuLoc theme song. 
SHREK All right. You're going the right way for a smacked bottom. 
DONKEY Sorry about that. 
FARQUAAD That champion shall have the honor - - no, no - - the privilege to go forth and rescue the lovely Princess Fiona from the fiery keep of the dragon. If for any reason the winner is unsuccessful, the first runner-up will take his place and so on and so forth. Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make. (cheers) Let the tournament begin! (He notices Shrek) Oh! What is that? It's hideous! 
SHREK (turns to look at Donkey and then back at Farquaad) Ah, that's not very nice. It's just a donkey. 
FARQUAAD Indeed. Knights, new plan! The one who kills the ogre will be named champion! Have it him! 
MEN Get him! 
SHREK Oh, hey! Now come on! Hang on now. (bumps into a table where there are mugs of beer) 
CROWD Go ahead! Get him! 
SHREK (holds up a mug of beer) Can't we just settle this over a pint? 
CROWD Kill the beast! 
SHREK No? All right then. (drinks the beer) Come on! 
He takes the mug and smashes the spigot off the large barrel of beer behind him. The beer comes rushing out drenching the other men and wetting the ground. It's like mud now. Shrek slides past the men and picks up a spear that one of the men dropped. As Shrek begins to fight Donkey hops up onto one of the larger beer barrels. It breaks free of it's ropes and begins to roll. Donkey manages to squish two men into the mud. There is so much fighting going on here I'm not going to go into detail. Suffice to say that Shrek kicks butt. 
DONKEY Hey, Shrek, tag me! Tag me! 
Shrek comes over and bangs a man's head up against Donkeys. Shrek gets up on the ropes and interacts with the crowd. 
SHREK Yeah! 
A man tries to sneak up behind Shrek, but Shrek turns in time and sees him. 
WOMAN The chair! Give him the chair! 
Shrek smashes a chair over the guys back. Finally all the men are down. Donkey kicks one of them in the helmet, and the ding sounds the end of the match. The audience goes wild. 
SHREK Oh, yeah! Ah! Ah! Thank you! Thank you very much! I'm here till Thursday. Try the veal! Ha, ha! (laughs) 
The laughter stops as all of the guards turn their weapons on Shrek. 
SHREK You said do it! I'm doin' it. 
DONKEY I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die. Shrek, I'm gonna die. (steps onto solid ground) Oh! 
SHREK That'll do, Donkey. That'll do. (walks towards the castle) 
DONKEY Cool. So where is this fire-breathing pain-in-the-neck anyway? 
SHREK Inside, waiting for us to rescue her. (chuckles) 
DONKEY I was talkin' about the dragon, Shrek. 
INSIDE THE CASTLE 
DONKEY You afraid? 
SHREK No. 
DONKEY But... 
SHREK Shh. 
DONKEY Oh, good. Me neither. (sees a skeleton and gasps) 'Cause there's nothin' wrong with bein' afraid. Fear's a sensible response to an unfamiliar situation. Unfamiliar dangerous situation, I might add. With a dragon that breathes fire and eats knights and breathes fire, it sure doesn't mean you're a coward if you're a little scared. I sure as heck ain't no coward. I know that. 
SHREK Donkey, two things, okay? Shut ... up. Now go over there and see if you can find any stairs. 
DONKEY Stairs? I thought we was lookin' for the princess. 
SHREK (putting on a helmet) The princess will be up the stairs in the highest room in the tallest tower. 
DONKEY What makes you think she'll be there? 
SHREK I read it in a book once. (walks off) 
DONKEY Cool. You handle the dragon. I'll handle the stairs. I'll find those stairs. I'll whip their butt too. Those stairs won't know which way they're goin'. (walks off) 
EMPTY ROOM 
Donkey is still talking to himself as he looks around the room. 
DONKEY I'm gonna take drastic steps. Kick it to the curb. Don't mess with me. I'm the stair master. I've mastered the stairs. I wish I had a step right here. I'd step all over it. 
ELSEWHERE 
FIONA What is so funny? 
SHREK Let's just say I'm not your type, okay?Fiona: Of course, you are. You're my rescuer. Now - - Now remove your helmet. 
SHREK Look. I really don't think this is a good idea. 
FIONA Just take off the helmet. 
SHREK I'm not going to. 
FIONA Take it off. 
SHREK No! 
FIONA Now! 
SHREK Okay! Easy. As you command. Your Highness. (takes off his helmet) 
FIONA You- - You're a- - an ogre. 
SHREK Oh, you were expecting Prince Charming. 
FIONA Well, yes, actually. Oh, no. This is all wrong. You're not supposed to be an ogre. 
SHREK Princess, I was sent to rescue you by Lord Farquaad, okay? He is the one who wants to marry you. 
FIONA Then why didn't he come rescue me? 
SHREK Good question. You should ask him that when we get there. 
FIONA But I have to be rescued by my true love, not by some ogre and his- - his pet. 
DONKEY Well, so much for noble steed. 
SHREK You're not making my job any easier. 
FIONA I'm sorry, but your job is not my problem. You can tell Lord Farquaad that if he wants to rescue me properly, I'll be waiting for him right here. 
SHREK Hey! I'm no one's messenger boy, all right? (ominous) I'm a delivery boy. (he swiftly picks her up and swings her over his shoulder like she was a sack of potatoes) 
FIONA You wouldn't dare. Put me down! 
SHREK Ya comin', Donkey? 
DONKEY Shrek, we can do better than that. I don't think this is fit for a princess. 
FIONA No, no, it's perfect. It just needs a few homey touches. 
SHREK Homey touches? Like what? (he hears a tearing noise and looks over at Fiona who has torn the bark off of a tree.) 
FIONA A door? Well, gentlemen, I bid thee good night. (goes into the cave and puts the bark door up behind her) 
DONKEY You want me to read you a bedtime story? I will. 
FIONA (os) I said good night! 
Shrek looks at Donkey for a second and then goes to move the boulder back in front of the entrance to the cave with Fiona still inside. 
DONKEY Shrek, What are you doing? 
SHREK (laughs) I just- - You know - - Oh, come on. I was just kidding. 
LATER THAT NIGHT 
Shrek and Donkey are sitting around a campfire. They are staring up into the sky as Shrek points out certain star constellations to Donkey. 
SHREK And, uh, that one, that's Throwback, the only ogre to ever spit over three wheat fields. 
DONKEY Right. Yeah. Hey, can you tell my future from these stars? 
SHREK The stars don't tell the future, Donkey. They tell stories. Look, there's Bloodnut, the Flatulent. You can guess what he's famous for. 
DONKEY I know you're making this up. 
SHREK No, look. There he is, and there's the group of hunters running away from his stench. 
DONKEY That ain't nothin' but a bunch of little dots. 
SHREK You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm? Forget it. 
DONKEY (heaves a big sigh) Hey, Shrek, what we gonna do when we get our swamp anyway? 
SHREK Our swamp? 
DONKEY You know, when we're through rescuing the princess. 
SHREK We? Donkey, there's no "we". There's no "our". There's just me and my swamp. The first thing I'm gonna do is build a ten-foot wall around my land. 
FIONA (getting fed up) Look, pal, I don't know who you think you are! 
ROBIN HOOD Oh! Of course! Oh, how rude. Please let me introduce myself. Oh, Merry Men. (laughs) 
Suddenly an accordion begins to play and the Merry men pop out from the bushes. They begin to sing Robin's theme song. 
MERRY MEN Ta, dah, dah, dah, whoo. 
ROBIN HOOD I steal from the rich and give to the needy. 
MERRY MEN He takes a wee percentage, 
ROBIN HOOD But I'm not greedy. I rescue pretty damsels, man, I'm good. 
MERRY MEN What a guy, Monsieur Hood. 
ROBIN HOOD Break it down. I like an honest fight and a saucy little maid... 
MERRY MEN What he's basically saying is he likes to get... 
ROBIN HOOD Paid. So...When an ogre in the bush grabs a lady by the tush. That's bad. 
MERRY MEN That's bad. 
ROBIN HOOD When a beauty's with a beast it makes me awfully mad. 
MERRY MEN He's mad, he's really, really mad. 
ROBIN HOOD I'll take my blade and ram it through your heart, keep your eyes on me, boys 'cause I'm about to start... 
There is a grunt as Fiona swings down from the tree limb and knocks Robin Hood unconscious. 
FIONA Man, that was annoying! 
Shrek looks at her in admiration. 
MERRY MAN Oh, you little- - (shoots an arrow at Fiona but she ducks out of the way) 
The arrow flies toward Donkey who jumps into Shrek's arms to get out of the way. The arrow proceeds to just bounce off a tree. 
Another fight sequence begins and Fiona gives a karate yell and then proceeds to beat the crap out of the Merry Men. There is a very interesting 'Matrix' moment here when Fiona pauses in mid-air to fix her hair. Finally all of the Merry Men are down, and Fiona begins walking away. 
FIONA Uh, shall we? 
SHREK No, it's tender. 
FIONA Now, hold on. 
SHREK What you're doing is the opposite of help. 
FIONA Don't move. 
SHREK Look, time out. 
FIONA Would you...(grunts as Shrek puts his hand over her face to stop her from getting at the arrow) Okay. What do you propose we do? 
ELSEWHERE 
Donkey is still looking for the special flower. 
DONKEY Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. Blue flower, red thorns. This would be so much easier if I wasn't color-blind! Blue flower, red thorns. 
SHREK (os) Ow! 
DONKEY Hold on, Shrek! I'm comin'! (rips a flower off a nearby bush that just happens to be a blue flower with red thorns) 
THE FOREST PATH 
SHREK Ow! Not good. 
FIONA Okay. Okay. I can nearly see the head. (Shrek grunts as she pulls) It's just about... 
SHREK Ow! Ohh! (he jerks and manages to fall over with Fiona on top of him) 
DONKEY Ahem. 
SHREK (throwing Fiona off of him) Nothing happend. We were just, uh - - 
DONKEY Look, if you wanted to be alone, all you had to do was ask. Okay? 
SHREK Oh, come on! That's the last thing on my mind. The princess here was just- - (Fiona pulls the arrow out) Ugh! (he turns to look at Fiona who holds up the arrow with a smile) Ow! 
DONKEY Hey, what's that? (nervous chuckle) That's...is that blood? 
Donkey faints. Shrek walks over and picks him up as they continue on their way. 
There is a montage of scenes as the group heads back to DuLoc. Shrek crawling up to the top of a tree to make it fall over a small brook so that Fiona won't get wet. Shrek then gets up as Donkey is just about to cross the tree and the tree swings back into it's upright position and Donkey flies off. Shrek swatting and a bunch of flies and mosquitoes. Fiona grabs a nearby spiderweb that's on a tree branch and runs through the field swinging it around to catch the bugs. She then hands it to Shrek who begins eating like it's a treat. As he walks off she licks her fingers. Shrek catching a toad and blowing it up like a balloon and presenting it to Fiona. Fiona catching a snake, blowing it up, fashioning it into a balloon animal and presenting it to Shrek. The group arriving at a windmill that is near DuLoc. 
Fiona looks at DuLoc and sighs. 
FIONA I guess I'll be dining a little differently tomorrow night. 
SHREK Maybe you can come visit me in the swamp sometime. I'll cook all kind of stuff for you. Swamp toad soup, fish eye tartare - - you name it. 
FIONA (smiles) I'd like that. 
They smiles at each other. 
SHREK Um, Princess? 
FIONA Yes, Shrek? 
SHREK I, um, I was wondering...are you...(sighs) Are you gonna eat that? 
DONKEY (chuckles) Man, isn't this romantic? Just look at that sunset. 
FIONA (jumps up) Sunset? Oh, no! I mean, it's late. I-It's very late. 
SHREK What? 
DONKEY Wait a minute. I see what's goin' on here. You're afraid of the dark, aren't you? 
FIONA Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside. 
DONKEY Don't feel bad, Princess. I used to be afraid of the dark, too, until - - Hey, no, wait. I'm still afraid of the dark. 
Shrek sighs 
FIONA Good night. 
SHREK Good night. 
Fiona goes inside the windmill and closes the door. Donkey looks at Shrek with a new eye. 
DONKEY Ohh! Now I really see what's goin' on here. 
SHREK Oh, what are you talkin' about? 
DONKEY I don't even wanna hear it. Look, I'm an animal, and I got instincts. And I know you two were diggin' on each other. I could feel it. 
SHREK You're crazy. I'm just bringing her back to Farquaad. 
FIONA It's me, in this body. 
DONKEY Oh, my God! You ate the princess. (to her stomach) Can you hear me? 
FIONA Donkey! 
DONKEY (still aimed at her stomach) Listen, keep breathing! I'll get you out of there! 
FIONA No! 
DONKEY Shrek! Shrek! Shrek! 
FIONA Shh. 
DONKEY Shrek! 
FIONA This is me. 
Donkey looks into her eyes as she pets his muzzle, and he quiets down. 
DONKEY Princess? What happened to you? You're, uh, uh, uh, different. 
FIONA I'm ugly, okay? 
DONKEY Well, yeah! Was it something you ate? 'Cause I told Shrek those rats was a bad idea. You are what you eat, I said. Now - - 
FIONA No. I - - I've been this way as long as I can remember. 
DONKEY What do you mean? Look, I ain't never seen you like this before. 
FIONA It only happens when sun goes down. "By night one way, by day another. This shall be the norm... until you find true love's first kiss... and then take love's true form." 
DONKEY Ah, that's beautiful. I didn't know you wrote poetry. 
FIONA It's a spell. (sigh) When I was a little girl, a witch cast a spell on me. Every night I become this. This horrible, ugly beast! I was placed in a tower to await the day my true love would rescue me. That's why I have to marry Lord Farquaad tomorrow before the sun sets and he sees me like this. (begins to cry) 
DONKEY All right, all right. Calm down. Look, it's not that bad. You're not that ugly. Well, I ain't gonna lie. You are ugly. But you only look like this at night. Shrek's ugly 24-7. 
FIONA But Donkey, I'm a princess, and this is not how a princess is meant to look. 
DONKEY Princess, how 'bout if you don't marry Farquaad? 
FIONA I have to. Only my true love's kiss can break the spell. 
FIONA Shrek. Are you all right? 
SHREK Perfect! Never been better. 
FIONA I - - I don't - - There's something I have to tell you. 
SHREK You don't have to tell me anything, Princess. I heard enough last night. 
FIONA You heard what I said? 
SHREK Every word. 
FIONA I thought you'd understand. 
SHREK Oh, I understand. Like you said, "Who could love a hideous, ugly beast?" 
FIONA But I thought that wouldn't matter to you. 
SHREK Yeah? Well, it does. (Fiona looks at him in shock. He looks past her and spots a group approaching.) Ah, right on time. Princess, I've brought you a little something. 
Farquaad has arrived with a group of his men. He looks very regal sitting up on his horse. You would never guess that he's only like 3 feet tall. Donkey wakes up with a yawn as the soldiers march by. 
DONKEY What'd I miss? What'd I miss? (spots the soldiers) (muffled) Who said that? Couldn't have been the donkey. 
FARQUAAD Princess Fiona. 
SHREK As promised. Now hand it over. 
FARQUAAD Very well, ogre. (holds out a piece of paper) The deed to your swamp, cleared out, as agreed. Take it and go before I change my mind. (Shrek takes the paper) Forgive me, Princess, for startling you, but you startled me, for I have never seen such a radiant beauty before. I'm Lord Farquaad. 
FIONA Lord Farquaad? Oh, no, no. (Farquaad snaps his fingers) Forgive me, my lord, for I was just saying a short... (Watches as Farquaad is lifted off his horse and set down in front of her. He comes to her waist.) farewell. 
FARQUAAD Oh, that is so sweet. You don't have to waste good manners on the ogre. It's not like it has feelings. 
FIONA No, you're right. It doesn't. 
Donkey watches this exchange with a curious look on his face. 
FARQUAAD Princess Fiona, beautiful, fair, flawless Fiona. I ask your hand in marriage. Will you be the perfect bride for the perfect groom? 
FIONA Lord Farquaad, I accept. Nothing would make - - 
FARQUAAD (interrupting) Excellent! I'll start the plans, for tomorrow we wed! 
SHREK Back off! 
DONKEY No, you back off. 
SHREK This is my swamp! 
DONKEY Our swamp. 
SHREK (grabs the tree branch Donkey is working with) Let go, Donkey! 
DONKEY You let go. 
SHREK Stubborn jackass! 
DONKEY Smelly ogre. 
SHREK Fine! (drops the tree branch and walks away) 
DONKEY Hey, hey, come back here. I'm not through with you yet. 
SHREK Well, I'm through with you. 
DONKEY Uh-uh. You know, with you it's always, "Me, me, me!" Well, guess what! Now it's my turn! So you just shut up and pay attention! You are mean to me. You insult me and you don't appreciate anything that I do! You're always pushing me around or pushing me away. 
SHREK Oh, yeah? Well, if I treated you so bad, how come you came back? 
DONKEY Because that's what friends do! They forgive each other! 
SHREK Oh, yeah. You're right, Donkey. I forgive you... for stabbin' me in the back! (goes into the outhouse and slams the door) 
DONKEY Ohh! You're so wrapped up in layers, onion boy, you're afraid of your own feelings. 
SHREK (os) Go away! 
DONKEY There you are , doing it again just like you did to Fiona. All she ever do was like you, maybe even love you. 
SHREK (os) Love me? She said I was ugly, a hideous creature. I heard the two of you talking. 
DONKEY She wasn't talkin' about you. She was talkin' about, uh, somebody else. 
SHREK (opens the door and comes out) She wasn't talking about me? Well, then who was she talking about? 
DONKEY Uh-uh, no way. I ain't saying anything. You don't wanna listen to me. Right? Right? 
FIONA Excuse me. Could we just skip ahead to the "I do's"? 
FARQUAAD (chuckles and then motions to the priest to indulge Fiona) Go on. 
COURTYARD 
Some guards are milling around. Suddenly the dragon lands with a boom. The guards all take off running. 
DONKEY (to Dragon) Go ahead, HAVE SOME FUN. If we need you, I'll whistle. How about that? (she nods and goes after the guards) Shrek, wait, wait! Wait a minute! You wanna do this right, don't you? 
SHREK (at the Church door) What are you talking about? 
DONKEY There's a line you gotta wait for. The preacher's gonna say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace." That's when you say, "I object!" 
SHREK I don't have time for this! 
DONKEY Hey, wait. What are you doing? Listen to me! Look, you love this woman, don't you? 
SHREK Yes. 
DONKEY You wanna hold her? 
SHREK Yes. 
DONKEY Please her? 
SHREK Yes! 
DONKEY (singing James Brown style) Then you got to, got to try a little tenderness. (normal) The chicks love that romantic crap! 
SHREK All right! Cut it out. When does this guy say the line? 
DONKEY We gotta check it out. 
INSIDE CHURCH 
As the priest talks we see Donkey's shadow through one of the windows Shrek tosses him up so he can see. 
PRIEST And so, by the power vested in me... 
Outside 
SHREK What do you see? 
FIONA And why not? 
SHREK Because- - Because he's just marring you so he can be king. 
FARQUAAD Outrageous! Fiona, don't listen to him. 
SHREK He's not your true love. 
FIONA And what do you know about true love? 
SHREK Well, I - - Uh - - I mean - - 
FARQUAAD Oh, this is precious. The ogee has fallen in love with the princess! Oh, good Lord. (laughs) 
The prompter card guy holds up a card that says 'Laugh'. The whole congregation laughs. 
FARQUAAD An ogre and a princess! 
FIONA Shrek, is this true? 
FARQUAAD Who cares? It's preposterous! Fiona, my love, we're but a kiss away from our "happily ever after." Now kiss me! (puckers his lips and leans toward her, but she pulls back.) 
FIONA (looking at the setting sun) "By night one way, by day another." (to Shrek) I wanted to show you before. 
She backs up and as the sun sets she changes into her ogre self. She gives Shrek a sheepish smile. 
SHREK Well, uh, that explains a lot. (Fiona smiles) 
FARQUAAD Ugh! It's disgusting! Guards! Guards! I order you to get that out of my sight now! Get them! Get them both! 
The guards run in and separate Fiona and Shrek. Shrek fights them. 
SHREK No, no! 
FIONA Shrek! 
FARQUAAD This hocus-pocus alters nothing. This marriage is binding, and that makes me king! See? See? 
FIONA No, let go of me! Shrek! 
SHREK No! 
FARQUAAD Don't just stand there, you morons. 
