SECRETARY 'Night, Mr. Grant. 
GRANT See ya', Ashley. 
Grant walks across the workshop toward the door. He sees a crowd of WORKERS lounging around a glass-cutting table, LAUGHING at something. 
Some of them nod at Grant, and he nods back.   But he's completely outside their circle. 
EXT. GRANT HOUSE - NIGHT 
A sizable two-story suburban home.    All the lights are off but one. 
GRANT (O.S.) So I get home today, phone's ringing. It's Hank Wilcox. 
INT. GRANT DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Starla and Grant eat dinner in this well-decorated room. As Grant chatters, Starla occasionally smiles politely at him. 
GRANT Callin' for you. What the hell? I said, 'Hank, that's a little bit outta line don't'cha think, a single man callin' someone's wife?' At night, nonetheless. 
Starla is quiet, almost afraid: 
STARLA He's teaching environmental science, Grant. Probably wants to borrow my lesson plans from last semester. 
GRANT Oh yeah, that's what he wants to borrow, this guy. 
STARLA It's just a work thing. 
GRANT Work thing hell, Starla. He just wants to get in your pussy. Him and most these other ones around here. That's where their minds is at, them sick fucks. 
Grant takes a big bite of food, stuffing his mouth. 
GRANT I'll tell you, sugarplum, you're lucky you got me. You're too damn trusting. Without me to protect you, you'd get kilt one of these days. 
Starla nods. 
INT. GRANT MASTER BATHROOM - LATER 
Starla stares at herself in the mirror as she brushes her hair. She uses long, slow strokes, as if stalling. 
GRANT (O.S.) Sugarplum, you coming into bed? 
Starla turns toward the door.       She doesn't say anything for a moment. 
STARLA Just a second. 
Starla sets her brush down on the counter. She arranges it neatly beside the others. And walks into the bedroom. 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
Grant turns off the TV as Starla gets into bed with him. It's almost completely dark in here. 
Grant crawls on top of Starla. He kisses her and grabs her in a way not meant to be rough, but is utterly without grace. 
After doing this for a few moments, Starla starts to push him off her. 
STARLA Grant, no -- I'm sorry, I'm just -- I'm not in the mood. 
Grant is on top of her, breathing a little too heavy. 
GRANT Come on, baby, it's -- 
STARLA I'm sorry.   I don't just have some switch. 
GRANT Sure you do. 
Through Starla's nightgown, Grant pretends to flick one of her nipples. 
GRANT Flip. 
Then the other. 
GRANT Flip. 
STARLA That's disrespectful. 
Grant, peeved, gets off of her. He sits on the edge of the bed for a moment, in silence. Starla looks afraid. 
GRANT When are you in the mood, exactly? Seems to me that mood's as rare as winnin' the Goddamn lotto. 
Grant grabs his slacks off the valet and starts putting them on. 
STARLA Where are you going? 
He comes to a flurry of colorful wild flowers. Something is rustling the flowers ever so slightly. He moves in closer. 
A gelatinous yellow organism slithers sluggishly between the flowers. The organism is a mound a few inches high, gross and veiny, yet as colorful as the flowers around it. A small cavity on the apex of the organism constricts and expands lightly. I guess it's not worth keeping secret that this thing looks a tad like a bright yellow vagina. 
GRANT What the...? 
Grant is a little freaked-out by this thing, even frightened. He looks around for someone else. 
GRANT Hey, anybody 'round here?   'Lo? 
No one answers. Grant looks down at the organism, unsure. He picks up a tree branch. 
Grant softly prods the organism with the pointy end of the branch. 
Nothing happens. 
He does it again.   The thing pulses a little, and surges toward Grant. 
Grand pokes it again. 
A small, thin quill -- a SPORE -- emerges from the cavity in the center of the organism. The spore is quivering and, as it trembles upward, little bulbed spurs pop up as well. 
Grant slowly bends down to look at it when -- 
The SPORE suddenly SHOOTS OUT.   It strikes Grant in the stomach. 
GRANT Ow!   Fuck! 
Grant yanks up his shirt, looking at a wound on his abdomen. He watches as the spore quivers and disappears inside him. 
He clutches his stomach, SCREAMS in agony. He falls back into the colorful flowers. His body convulses. 
MATCH CUT TO: 
CAT SCAN SHOT - INT. GRANT'S BODY 
We see the insides of Grant's body, as if sliced in half. We ZOOM IN on the little spore, which is jittering up through his body, and into his neck. 
The spore keys into the base of Grant's cerebellum, and his entire brain crackles with a WHITE ELECTRICAL ENERGY. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Grant freezes in place, his fingers contorted up in front of him, silent. He's utterly still, a wax corpse. 
A hippie CAMPING COUPLE run into the area, looking for the source of the screams. The man looks down at the frozen Grant. 
CAMPER Over here! 
The Camper crouches down beside him. 
CAMPER Hey, man. You all right?... Dude?... Oh shit. 
The Camper turns from Grant to his girlfriend. 
CAMPER I think he's d -- 
Grant GASPS suddenly, sitting up and grabbing the man, like a drowning man popping up above water. The Camper YELPS and jumps back. Grant sweats and heaves, trying to speak, but hardly can -- 
GRANT It's taking... my... brain. 
CAMPER Buddy? 
Grant's eyes glaze over, and he eases off. He heaves there, momentarily confused. His eyes dart around, as if seeing his surroundings for the first time. Grant stands. 
CAMPER You all right, man? 
Grant looks down curiously at the camper. Then he turns and stumbles away from them, out of the forest. 
CAMPER That might of been a stroke, buddy. You better take it easy. 
INT. GRANT'S PICKUP - DAWN 
Grant drives down the road in his luxury pickup truck, sweating and blinking rapidly. 
EXT. GRANT HOUSE - MORNING 
Grant steps out of the truck in his driveway, when he hears -- 
NEIGHBOR (O.S.) Hey ya', Grant. 
Grant swings his head toward his NEIGHBOR, who is taking a happy BEAGLE for a morning walk. 
NEIGHBOR What were ya', night-fishing again? You catch anything? 
JANENE Oh! You got that fresh-fucked glow, don't you? 
STARLA Janene. 
JANENE You slut. 
STARLA Hush. 
JANENE No shame.   You're a married woman. 
STARLA He was... considerate. Maybe this is the start of a real change in Grant. 
INT. GRANT BATHROOM - DAY 
Grant is holding up his shirt, and looking at his torso. The wound on his side is blackened and gangrenous, and is starting to puff up into a veiny little spout. A fuzzy bluish moss is growing in the crevices around the spout. A pus oozes out. 
Grant looks concerned. He squirts some Neosporin onto his fingers. He massages it slowly into the wound. 
INT.   GRANT KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER 
Grant opens the refrigerator door and rummages around inside. He pulls out some bread. Some cheese. 
He opens the meat drawer. It's replete with cold cuts. He pulls out some Oscar Mayer baloney. Turkey. Pastrami and salami. He grabs every type of meat there is. 
MOMENTS LATER 
Grant assembles a sandwich at the table. Two pieces of bread and some cheese. He starts putting the meat on. But he can't stop, piling more and more on until he has a little sandwich tower. 
He looks at it. Something seems off about it. He removes the cheese. Better. And then the bread. Even better. He stares at what is now simply a tower of cold cuts. 
GRANT Meat. 
After contemplating it for a moment, Grant stands and carries off the pile of meat. 
INT. GRANT GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER 
Grant enters the garage through a door from the FOYER. He flips the lights on with his shoulder. He looks around. 
Grant spots an old file cabinet. He sets the tower of meat down on the oily floor and opens a drawer. It's filled with files. He closes that drawer, and opens another. It has manila file folders, but no files. 
Grant takes out the folders. He uses a Sharpie to write out "BALONEY" on a folder. Then he stuffs all the baloney into the folder and files it away. 
He starts writing out "PASTRAMI". 
LATER 
Grant flips through his alphabetically-filed meat: from "BALONEY" through "TURKEY." But he doesn't look satisfied. 
INT. SUPERMARKET - LATER 
Grant stands beside the butcher's counter with a shopping cart. He peers dreamily in through the glass at the rows of steaks, pork chops, and so on. 
GRANT Meat. 
BUTCHER Howdy, Mr. Grant. You goin' to the Deer Cheer this weekend? 
Grant snaps out of his reverie. 
GRANT Sure thing, killer. 
BUTCHER What can I do you for? 
GRANT Thinkin' 'bout getting me a couple of these big ol' rib eyes. 
BUTCHER How many you need? 
Grant stares at the steaks. 
GRANT Well... having us a little dinner party... I'd say... eight. No, no... fourteen... 
The Butcher nods, starts to grab steaks.   Grant CHUCKLES. 
GRANT Hell, what am I holding back for? Why don't you just give me everything you got here? 
BUTCHER All the rib eyes? 
GRANT Yep. And while you're at it, get me a few of them chicken wings... some pork loins... and, ooo, what's this here? Osso buco?... 
EXT. GRANT HOME - LATER 
Grant backs his pickup toward the garage. Meat is piled into the bed. Wrapped packages of meat fill the seats around him. 
INT. GRANT GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER 
EXT. GRANT HOME - MORNING 
Starla walks to get the paper in her robe, and she sees a BOY, aged thirteen or so, stapling a LOST: REWARD flyer to a telephone pole, with a picture of the beagle. 
STARLA Roscoe's gone? 
The Boy's face is streaked from a long night of crying. 
BOY You haven't seen him, have you? 
Starla shakes her head. 
STARLA I'm sure he'll show up, Tim. 
The Boy nods, and walks to the next telephone pole to put up another flyer. 
EXT. SHADED FOREST - DAY 
Grant moves up a hill, between trees, looking around for something. He comes to a stop, trying to remember which way to go. He does, and moves on. 
EXT.   OLD BARN - LATER 
Grant comes upon an old wooden barn. The structure is maybe a hundred years old, and long abandoned. It's spattered with graffiti. Grant stares at it. 
MOMENTS LATER 
Grant gathers large fronds and other foliage in his arms. 
INT.   OLD BARN - LATER 
Grant spreads the plant life over the floor of the barn. He arranges it, fluffs it there. His actions are very animal-like when no one's around. He seems to be making a nest. He sits back, looks at it. 
He's happy. 
FADE TO: 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Starla, dressed in her weekend finery, is looking in the mirror above her dresser, and putting on earrings. 
STARLA Grant, are you almost ready? 
INT. GRANT MASTER BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
Grant looks ill. He is leaning over the sink, sweating, clutching his stomach. 
GRANT Yeah, hon, I'll be right there! 
Grant turns and pushes open his door. 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Grant sees Starla sitting on the edge of the bed, her back to him, as she puts on her nylons. She doesn't know he's there. 
Grant stares at her, demented, and moves slowly toward her, stalking her. 
Something starts to push Grant's shirt up at his stomach, like a bellybutton erection. The thing slips out of his shirt -- a writhing, pointy tubule, aiming toward Starla's back. 
Grant looks at the nape of Starla's neck.    Her delicate ear. He becomes confused; he softens. 
Starla turns to see Grant, his body now turned away from her. He's trying to push the tubule back down. 
STARLA What are you doing? 
GRANT You're pretty. 
Starla nods, confused by his behavior. 
EXT. WHEELSY SADDLE LODGE - LATER 
A banner hangs across the front of the lodge, "DEER CHEER '05" -- the first Friday of deer season in Wheelsy. Inflatable deer totems decorate the front of the wooden lodge. RAMBUNCTIOUS MUSIC comes from inside. Partyers enter. 
Grant and Starla step out of his truck. As they do, one of Starla's students, Will, sees her and waves. Starla waves back. 
Grant notices this and grabs Starla's arm, a bit too hard, pulling her back. 
GRANT Who's that? 
STARLA It's just one of my students, Grant. 
Grant stares at the boy with distrust, and ushers Starla towards the lodge. 
Bill, Trevor and Margaret are hanging out on a large rock outside the entranceway, drinking beer. Bill watches Grant and Starla cross the lot. Trevor sees this. 
GRANT Guess it's hard to explain how amazin' a human brain is to someone who that's all they know. 
BRENDA What? 
GRANT Stuff you can never imagine. Feelings. Big thoughts. And love. Yeah. I'm inclined to parlay it into somethin' more. So, go ahead there, beautiful, and take off your shirt. 
Brenda, though startled, leans back on a boulder and starts unbuttoning her blouse. After a moment, she looks at Grant, trying to be sexy while she does it. Grant looks at her in her bra. 
GRANT Nice. 
Grant unbuttons his shirt as well.    As he removes it completely, he turns toward her. 
Brenda sees the wound on his stomach has blossomed into a veiny, blue-moss-encrusted yellow spout, huge and pulsing. 
BRENDA Grant!?    What -- ?! 
Grant grabs her.    She tries to push his arms away. 
BRENDA No, no, we -- 
Brenda gets up, trying to run away. But Grant grabs her necklace, yanking her back. The necklace snaps and falls into the creek beside them. 
Grant pins Brenda's wrists against the rock.    She struggles to get free. 
Brenda's eyes widen as she looks down to see the writhing, tentacle-like tubule emerge from Grant's wound. She SCREAMS. 
Grant shoves his hand over her mouth, shutting her up. He's extremely strong. She watches as the tubule twitches, feeling its way like a blind snake. 
The tubule comes to rest on her abdomen. Tears stream down from Brenda's eyes. It pushes into her flesh. 
Brenda goes into convulsions. Something -- a fluid -- pumps through the tubule and into Brenda. 
Grant watches Brenda without emotion as her body spasms there beside him. 
Then she falls back, unconscious.   The tubule retracts into Grant's torso. 
EXT. WHEELSY SADDLE LODGE BACK PORCH - NIGHT 
Starla is leaning over a wooden rail, looking at the lights of the town below. She turns to see Bill lean on the rail beside her. She looks genuinely happy. 
STARLA Hey, Bill! 
Starla catches herself, and looks around to see if Grant is watching. 
BILL Don't worry. The lurker ain't around. I checked. 
STARLA That's not funny. 
BILL Sorry. 
STARLA Whatcha' doin'? 
BILL Tryin' to get a buzz on. But I'm too buff. Too much muscle mass. 
Starla LAUGHS. 
BILL What you up to? 
STARLA Just checking out the lights. 
Bill and Starla look out over the city together. 
BILL Pretty, ain't they? 
STARLA I don't know. I've seen them so many times before. I guess any spot gets boring after awhile. 
BILL Well that's only if you're in the wrong spot. 
Starla looks at him. 
BILL There's a place over there on the bluffs. When the fog is just right, like tonight, the lights of Main look like a kaleidoscope. 
STARLA Oh, yeah? 
BILL Mm hm. But only a few folks know how to get there. Wally. Rollo Linkski coulda taken you, but 'course he got hit by that train. Me. 
STARLA I'll get Wally to show me sometime then. 
Starla LAUGHS out loud.   So does Bill. 
BILL Oh, will you now? 
STARLA                            GRANT (O.S.) Or Rollo's ghost.               Starla. 
Grant grabs his keys off the dresser, puts them in his pocket, trying to pretend he doesn't hurt. 
STARLA I'll get if for you. 
GRANT No!   No.   Heh.     I'll be right back. 
He moves outside the door, leaving Starla, shell-shocked. 
INT. GRANT GARAGE - DAY 
It's too dark to see much in here, but we do see Grant putting meat into a garbage bag. 
EXT. GRANT HOUSE - DAY 
Grant looks around to make sure no one's looking, as he places the garbage bag full of meat into his trunk, closes it. 
EXT. OLD BARN - EVENING 
Grant moves through the forest, in massive pain, dragging the garbage bag. 
Grant comes upon the old wooden barn. 
INT. OLD BARN - NIGHT 
Grant enters. It is almost completely dark.          He hears WEEPING. CHAINS RATTLE. 
Grant peers over at Brenda, mostly in silhouette, sitting on the nest he has made. She's chained up and MOANS through a mouth gag. Grant walks to her. Her body is horribly pear-shaped and misshapen, like some tumorous pregnancy. Grant pulls her gag away. 
BRENDA Grant? Grant, I'm hungry. I'm so fuckin' hungry I think I'm gonna die. 
GRANT Brought you munchies. 
Grant pours the garbage bagful of rotting meat and dead animals out in front of her. 
GRANT Been saving for a rainy day. 
CLOSEUP: Brenda's face, still mostly in darkness. She stares at the meat, simultaneously excited and repulsed. 
She looks up at Grant. 
BRENDA Grant, I'm sorry if I did something wrong! I think I gotta -- I think I should go to a hospital! 
Grant doesn't respond.    Brenda's eyes trail back down to the meat. 
Brenda's hand reaches out, and grabs a maggot-infested pork chop, pulling it toward her. 
We HEAR, but can barely see, Brenda CHOWING DOWN on the raw pork in the nearly pitch black barn. 
INT. GRANT'S TRUCK - LATER 
Grant gets into his pickup; he trembles and YELPS as his body is wracked with pain and his body starts to transform even more. 
INT. GRANT FOYER - NIGHT 
There's a HARD KNOCKING on Starla's door. She swings it open to see Bill and Wally standing there, worried. 
Wally tries to see inside. 
WALLY Grant around? 
STARLA No.   He went to the pharmacy. 
WALLY Pharmacy? 
STARLA He's got a... rash. 
Bill and Wally exchange a glance -- maybe this means something. Starla can see Trevor and Margaret, across the street, talking to another neighbor. 
BILL Starla, you know Brenda Gutierrez? 
Starla shakes her head. 
BILL Maybe she's ever called the house, or -- ? 
STARLA No.   What...? 
BILL She disappeared Friday night. We got reason to believe foul play might be involved. 
WALLY Some kids found her necklace near Tipper Creek, as well as what might be her blood on a rock. 
BILL The problem, Starla, is, the last person anyone saw her talking to was Grant. 
Starla looks at him, surprised. 
STARLA Grant, no! 
GRANT I loved you.     I loved -- 
STARLA Grant, you're sick! 
Grant is about to cry. 
GRANT I wanted you by my side, but you -- I can't trust you now! 
Starla's WEEPING, confused. Grant rips his shirt open. Starla looks down to see the tubule protruding from the 
now enormous yellow spore on Grant's chest. The tubule feels over Starla's blouse, and then slips beneath it. It starts to poke into her skin. 
STARLA Noooo! 
Starla grabs the leg of a coffee table beside her. She SLAMS the table into Grant's head. This hurts and surprises him sufficiently to let Starla get out from under him. 
Starla grabs the cordless phone, which is no longer ringing, and scurries behind the couch. She dials 9-1-1. 
Grant thrusts the couch aside. 
Starla crawls away again, when Grant attacks her from behind. He wraps his arm around her neck, pulling her back. He looks down at her with his sick, angry eyes, as his arm -- now apparently jointless -- curls around her like a snake. 
Starla gasps for air. Her face turns purple.   She hears a SLAMMING on the door. 
BILL (O.S.) Starla?!!   Starla, are you in there?! 
Starla tries to speak but she cannot.   Suddenly, we HEAR the FRONT DOOR OPEN. 
BILL (O.S.) Starla?! 
Starla, with barely an ounce of life left in her, sees Bill, Wally, Trevor and Margaret burst into the living room. 
They are surprised, to say the least, to see this diseased humanoid strangling Starla from behind. 
TREVOR Fuck! 
The cops, freaked out, pull their guns. Grant makes a SCREECHING SOUND at them. They SHOOT at Grant, nicking him. 
Grant jumps away from Starla, back into the shadows, SCREECHING in anger and pain. Starla falls to the floor. 
Grant slips out the back door and away. 
The cops stare, gape-jawed and frozen with shock; what the hell was THAT?! 
Starla rubs her neck, COUGHING. 
Bill Pardy runs toward the back door. 
EXT. GRANT HOME - NIGHT 
Bill runs out into the backyard. Wally runs up behind him. They look around at the trees surrounding the area. Grant is nowhere to be seen. 
We CRANE UP and AWAY from them as we... 
FADE TO BLACK. 
O.S. SNIFFLING. 
PASTOR (O.S.) Jesus, these past few days have been a trying time for us. 
INT. CHURCH - DAY 
We PAN OVER an altar where family members have placed little items that remind them of Brenda -- photographs, mementos, "Come home, Mommy" cards, etc. 
PASTOR (O.S.) We ask you now for the safe return of our beloved Brenda. 
Everyone in this modest little church has their heads bowed as the PASTOR leads the prayer service. 
PASTOR Our sister. Our daughter.    Our mother. Our wife. 
Brenda's husband, in the front pew, loses it, CRYING. His little children, beside him, fiddle in their seats. 
PASTOR And we ask that you keep your light alive in her heart, wherever she may be. We ask all this in your name, Lord. Amen 
Bill Pardy is here, in full uniform, hat in hands. 
BILL                               CONGREGATION Amen.                            Amen. 
Bill looks around the church. He spots Starla, in the very back of church, head down, distraught, guilty. 
He also sees a group of OLD CRONES nearby, pointing at Starla, and whispering about her. 
SHELBY (O.S.) Bill! 
Bill looks over at Shelby, on his headset at the dispatch unit. 
SHELBY Another ranch attack!   Up at the Castavets'. 
Bill nods for Trevor and Margaret to get up from their desks. They do, and start to move out with Bill and Wally. 
JACK 'Ranch a -'?   What 'ranch attacks'? 
EXT. CATTLE RANCH - LATER 
POV: A dead rottweiler is lying on its back in the long grass, its gut split open and intestines spilling out, almost perfectly symmetrical. 
WALLY (O.S.) It looks like one of them psyche tests. What do they call it? 
Bill and Wally are staring at the dog from above. 
BILL Rorschach. 
WALLY What do you see? I see a butterfly. 
Bill moves on through the windswept weeds. 
BILL I see we're fucked.   Three ranches in three days. 
Margaret is taking measurements and writing in a note pad; she sees Bill. 
MARGARET So, I think I got it part-way figured. You want to hear it? 
Bill nods. 
MARGARET So Grant -- I mean, we're saying this is Grant, right? 
Bill nods. 
MARGARET Grant kills a cow right about here. See there's the blood, musta slit its neck. 
Margaret walks backward, showing the trail of blood in the crushed grass. 
MARGARET So he drags the cow backwards here. Only he prolly didn't know 'bout the Castavets had them dogs. 
TREVOR (O.S.) Hey, look! 
Bill looks over at Trevor, standing up between the tall weeds, holding a dog's head in his hand. 
TREVOR He knocked this'n's head clear over here! 
WALLY Put that down, numbnuts! 
Bill peers at the various slaughtered dogs around them. 
MARGARET So the dogs attacked, somehow he slew 'em all, and he stole off with the cow into the forest. 
Trevor heads toward them. Bill looks off into the dark forest on the edge of the ranch. 
BILL He's gotta be in the forest. All three ranches run alongside it. 
TREVOR Think we should get up a search party, head in there? 
WALLY It's a hundred thousand acres. Be finding a needle in a fuckstack. 
Bill has a realization.   He moves quickly for his car. 
BILL Wally, come on. Trevor and Margaret, get some folks together. I think I know where he's gonna hit next. 
INT. POLICE STATION - LATER 
CLOSEUP: A property map of Wheelsy is tacked to a bulletin board. Red Magic Marker circles are around various ranch properties on the edge of the city, next to an enormous forest. A finger points to one of the red circles. 
BILL So the night after Grant ran off, a calf went missing from here, the Raglans' ranch. 
REVEAL Bill, standing beside the bulletin board. A posse has gathered, listening intently: Wally and the usual cops; Jack; an OLDER COP, probably pulled out of retirement; and a couple of recruits -- a REDNECK and a GOOD OL' BOY. Bill points to the next red circle. 
BILL Two nights ago, a mare was stolen from this property, run by Fitzgibbon, that old rancher with the cleft palate. 
Wally whispers to Margaret, amused: 
WALLY Looks like a chipmunk. 
BILL Your momma wasn't too proud when you came out neither, Wally. 
Bill points to the next circle. 
She peers out a little window above the tub, trying to see where the shots are coming from. 
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 
The posse run through this very dark forest after Grant, leaping over brush and rocks. They're nervous, but also excited, as the primordial hunting urge takes over. Their eyes are filled with anger and bloodlust. 
They're able to follow Grant only by catching glimpses -- a flash of flesh between trees, a tentacle disappearing around brush. 
WALLY There he is!     Over there! 
They FIRE at the creature, taking chunks out of trees, but missing. He's too fast. 
EXT. CREEK - NIGHT 
Grant slips around a boulder and splashes through a creek, and into the plentiful trees beyond. He rustles thick fronds as he moves up alongside the creek. 
The posse run up the creek itself, splashing, trying to peer through the leaves to get a shot at Grant. 
Jack, carrying his revolver, trips and falls in the creek. He cuts his knee on a sharp rock. He stands, and keeps going. 
They come to -- 
EXT. FOREST CLEARING - NIGHT 
The posse come up out of the creek. They've completely lost track of the diseased man-beast. 
They stop, out-of-breath and looking around.   They whisper: 
TREVOR Where'd he go? 
MARGARET We ain't never gonna find that girl now. 
The Redneck is WEEPING with rage. 
REDNECK I'll kill that asshole what he did to Charlie. 
Bill sees Starla run up behind them.    He waves her back. 
BILL Starla, get the hell out of here! 
Starla takes a couple steps back, but doesn't leave. She watches there, half in shadows as the posse creep around, searching for some trail of Grant. 
Margaret looks down into the bubbling creek. She sees it's turning red. She looks up the trail of red, which is rippling downhill in the water. The red flow starts somewhere near a boulder. 
Bill and Wally are searching in front of the boulder. Margaret SEES, but they don't, Grant pulling himself up on a tree branch and RISING behind them. Blood from a shotgun wound is dripping into the creek. Grant, pissed, lifts a tentacle. 
MARGARET Bill!! 
Bill turns as the tentacle swings down toward him. He falls back; the tentacle slashes inches from his face. 
Bill BLASTS his shotgun up at Grant, but Grant is already slithering swiftly back into the thick brush. 
The posse squeeze themselves though the brush, following. 
EXT. OLD BARN - NIGHT 
The posse emerge on the other side of the brush, only to be confronted by a terrible odor. They cover their noses and mouths as their faces shrivel in disgust. 
TREVOR What the hell's that smell? 
WALLY It's something dead. 
The posse gaze up at the old ramshackle barn where Grant had brought Brenda. 
JACK It's coming from in there, ain't it? 
Margaret looks at Bill. 
MARGARET Think he's inside? 
Bill takes the lead, carefully approaching the barn. 
The posse follows, their weapons drawn. The closer they get to the barn, the more unbearable the smell becomes. Only Bill, intent on the task in front of him, doesn't react to the stench at all. 
Bill leans his ear in close to the front door, and listens. Through the door he can HEAR a QUIET SOBBING. Bill and Wally exchange a look. 
Bill steps back. He and Wally aim their shotguns at the door. Bill nods to Margaret, and gestures for her to open it. Starla watches all this from the rear. 
Margaret swings open the door. 
INT. OLD BARN - NIGHT 
Bill and Wally move cautiously but quickly inside.   But they stop suddenly, in disgust and horror. 
A parasite slithers quickly and fluidly into Wally's mouth. He gags on it. His eyes flip back up into his head, and his body starts to spasm. 
Jack tries to pull one away from his face, but it's too slippery and it disappears inside his mouth. His body, too, convulses, and he spits up blood. 
Bill notices the parasites slithering into the mouths of the Redneck and the Older Cop as well; whites of their eyes, bodies convulsing, spewing blood. Bill sees the things oozing up Margaret's neck. 
BILL Margaret, cover your mouth! 
Bill sees Trevor outside the door in the dirt, trying to slap the parasites off. Bill yells to everyone: 
BILL Don't let 'em in your mouths! 
One starts to get in Bill's mouth as he speaks, but he slaps it aside. Margaret pulls her shirt over her face. 
Starla SHRIEKS. She puts her hand over her mouth as the parasites rush up her. She's knocked over, and falls back onto the floor. 
A parasite slithers between Starla's lips -- when, suddenly, a KNIFE thrusts down, pinning the creature to the dirt, stopping it from oozing further into Starla. 
Bill is holding the knife in one hand, his other hand firmly over his mouth. Bill swats more incoming parasites away from Starla's mouth. He covers her mouth with his free hand. He lies on top of her, mushing their bodies and faces as closely together as possible so the things don't get into them. The parasites swarm all over them, flapping their slimy little tails as they try to fight their way inside their mouths. But Bill holds tight to himself and Starla. 
Eventually, the parasites give up on Bill and Starla, and begin to slither away. Bill watches as they crawl off the posse and filter out of the barn in a squirmy mound. 
Eventually, they're gone. Bill takes his hand from Starla's mouth. Starla looks around. 
She sees Margaret lift her face from the ground, shivering, holding her shirt over her mouth. They gaze out the front door of the barn. 
EXT. OLD BARN - NIGHT 
Trevor pulls his face from the dirt and stands. He spits violently and wipes the dirt off his tongue with his wrist. 
TREVOR They wanted us to eat 'em!   Why would they want that!? 
INT. OLD BARN - NIGHT 
Bill is trying to make sense of it all. He gazes down at Brenda's body, her bloody skin and misshapen skeleton spread out over the floor, split open like an enormous bloody tiger rug. 
He looks around at the posse lying on the floor in mangled positions, their mouths and lips covered in blood, still lightly convulsing. 
He gazes out INTO THE FOREST to see the parasites rushing away like an ugly wormy army, shaking the brush as they head off in different directions. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' RANCH - NIGHT 
Parasites crawl over rocks and out of the forest and onto the ranch. The Strutemyer farmhouse looms nearby. 
INT. KYLIE'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Kylie is taking a steamy bubble bath. Her head is back, her eyes shut; she's enjoying the warm water. The tub faucet drips lightly in an uneven rhythm. 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' FARMHOUSE - NIGHT 
The parasites squirm up the side of the house, sticking to the wood siding. 
INT. KYLIE'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
Kylie glances out the window beside the tub, at the starry sky and crescent moon, beautiful and still. 
There's a KNOCK on the bathroom door. Kylie turns toward the door -- as she does, a parasite crawls across the window behind her, streaking a moist slimy trail. 
KYLIE'S MOM Kylie! You're gonna turn into a plum in there! 
KYLIE Prune, Mom.    Plums turn into prunes. 
INT. STRUTEMYERS' HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Kylie's Mom is at the bathroom door. 
KYLIE'S MOM I know what turns into what. You got school tomorrow. Finish up in there and get to bed. 
O.S. Kylie GRUNTS in vague agreement. 
Kylie's Mom trots down the hall, to another door. 
She KNOCKS once, then opens the door to -- 
INT. STRUTEMYER GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Kylie's younger sisters lie in single beds, reading Goosebumps by bed-lamps clipped to the headboards. 
KYLIE'S MOM Time to turn in, ladies. 
KYLIE'S SISTER 1 Just a couple more pages, Mom? 
WALLY Hey, sugarplum. 
Pause.   Starla pulls the gag from her mouth. 
STARLA What? 
Wally speaks with Grant's cadence. 
WALLY Marriage. It's a sacred bond. Just like you said. 
Starla stares at him.   Wally almost looks weepy. 
WALLY I'm sorry 'bout trying to strangle you and all. I lost -- Lost my head. I didn't want to do none of the things I done. Not kill them pets. Not make Brenda a womb. But it's my nature, ain't it? How can you blame a one for actin' according to his nature? 
Starla, too freaked to speak, takes a step back from him. 
WALLY I wanted to tell you what was going on. But I didn't - didn't think you'd love me no more. I never knew... love, Starla, I -- 
Trevor and Margaret are setting down the Older Cop.   They see Wally standing. Margaret pulls down her gag. 
MARGARET Wally? 
Wally turns and stares at her like some angry animal. 
MARGARET You all right? 
Wally doesn't answer. 
MARGARET Maybe you better sit back down. You don't look so good. 
TREVOR Margaret. 
Trevor's staring at something. Margaret follows his eye line. Jack and the Older Cop are sitting up, staring at her, just like Wally. 
The Redneck stumbles into the barn doorway, also staring at them. 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' FARMHOUSE/INT. PICKUP TRUCK - NIGHT 
Kylie is still alone in the Luv truck. The windows are clear; the parasites have abandoned their quest, just as they did with the posse in the barn. But Kylie stays in the car, trembling, afraid to leave. 
She HEARS a DOOR OPEN. She sees her parents and her sisters come stumbling out the front door of her home. They're also bloated and diseased. Their chins and shirts are stained with the blood they spit up. 
KYLIE'S DAD Kylie, honey, you okay? Come on out. 
Her family lumbers up to the truck. They peer in with their milky eyes. Her youngest sister pushes her face up close to the window. 
KYLIE'S SISTER 2 Hi, Kylie.   It's me. 
Her family tries the door handles, but they're locked. 
KYLIE'S MOM Open the door, sweetie. I know we don't look so good, but your mommy and daddy love you. 
KYLIE Get away!! 
KYLIE'S MOM Now, Kylie, there's no excuse why not to be with your family. This is family fun day, isn't it? 
They continue RATTLING the door handles, over and over. They SLAP the windows. 
Kylie SOBS.   Her sister speaks in a singsongy voice: 
KYLIE'S SISTER 1 Kyyy-leee, this is your last cha- ance. 
Her Dad leans over and picks up a large rock. He carries it toward the truck. He holds it up over the windshield. 
Kylie SCREAMS as he SMASHES it down. The windshield CRACKS, but doesn't shatter. He holds it up again. 
EXT. FOREST NEAR STRUTEMYER'S - NIGHT 
Bill, out of breath, runs out of the forest -- 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' RANCH - NIGHT 
Bill emerges on the edge of the ranch, stretching five or six acres out in front of him. On the other side of the field is the gravel road, where his police car is parked. Beside the field is the Strutemyer's farmhouse. 
Bill HEARS a CRASH. He turns to see the diseased Strutemyers in their driveway, all holding rocks now, smashing the pickup's windows. 
BILL Hey! 
The Strutemyers stop, mid-swing.   They turn toward him. 
Kylie sees Bill through the rear windshield.    She unlocks the door, and jumps out of the car. 
BILL What's -- ? 
JACK                            REDNECK Both sides of the story!?       Both sides of the story!? 
STARLA Why are you talking like Grant?! 
The posse moves toward her. Starla is CRYING. The posse makes a COLLECTIVE SCREECHING sound, then speaks again: 
WALLY 'Cause I am Grant! 
WALLY                           REDNECK I'm you husband --              I'm you husband, Goddammit -- 
JACK You swore to honor and obey -- 
OLDER COP                       REDNECK Obey me --                      Obey me, so put that Goddamn gun down. 
STARLA Don't come any closer.    I'll... shoot. 
WALLY You ain't gonna shoot me! You always needed me to protect you! You for damn sure ain't got the balls to -- 
Starla BLASTS Wally, blowing open a big crater into his face. 
Wally falls to his knees.    Starla and Trevor look on in shock, as they see... 
A slithering parasite squirming out of the crater on his face -- out of the Wally's brain. 
The little thing squirms down Wally's body and slithers off quickly into the woods. Wally falls over, dead. 
The sick posse look at Starla, surprised, infuriated. 
And then they leap at her. 
Starla tries to shoot them.   But she's out of ammo. 
She and Trevor turn and dash away as quickly as their legs can take them. 
EXT. TREE-THICK FOREST - NIGHT 
Trevor and Starla run in a zigzag pattern through trees rooted closely together, panicked, breathing heavy. 
TREVOR Oh shit oh shit oh shit oh shit! 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' RANCH - NIGHT 
Bill and Kylie arrive at his police car. Bill throws the door open, and shoves Kylie inside. As he starts to get in, he turns to see the two little girls closing in. 
One opens her mouth and GLEEKS -- it shoots out and lands on the car right beside Bill's hand. 
The other little girl opens her mouth to GLEEK as Bill jumps into the driver's seat. He slams the door shut just as the oozy liquid splashes on the window beside him. 
Bill is grossed-out by this, but he doesn't have much time. He goes to reload his shotgun, when he remembers. 
BILL Shit.   Ammo's in the trunk. 
He grabs the police radio. 
BILL Trevor!   Margaret! 
EXT. TREE-THICK FOREST - NIGHT 
Trevor turns and sees Jack, the Redneck, and the Older Cop leap powerfully over the brush behind them, coming in fast. But he's able to grab onto his radio. 
TREVOR They killed Margaret! 
EXT. STRUTEMYERS' RANCH - NIGHT 
Kylie's two sisters jump onto the hood, SCREECHING.   They SLAM rocks on the windshield. Kylie SCREAMS. 
BILL (into radio) Where are you?! 
TREVOR (O.S.) We're coming your way, man! 
Bill JAMS the car forward, knocking the sisters off the hood. Then he slams on the brakes. 
He looks back and sees the two little girls running toward the car again. 
And he sees the mass of diseased ranch families also running toward the car. Kylie is SCREAMING and CRYING. 
KYLIE Go!   Go!   Please! 
But, instead, of pulling forward on the gravel road, Bill turns up and onto the ranch itself -- back towards the running diseased. 
BILL My friends are still in the forest. 
Bill speeds the police car over the dirt field, trying to avoid approaching ranchers. Some leap at the car, holding on and getting tossed aside. Bill zooms back toward the trees. 
BILL I can't hear when you're nodding. 
SHELBY Sorry. 
BILL We'll be there in ten minutes. 
Bill hangs up. Kylie is clutching onto herself, hollow- eyed, in deep shock. She mutters, almost unintelligibly: 
KYLIE The worms are in their brains. 
Starla, Bill, and Trevor look at her. 
INSERT - FOREST 
The CAMERA TRACKS QUICKLY FORWARD, through the forest, and to a CLOSEUP on the Redneck, who is hunched over Margaret's body, eating her flesh. 
MATCH CUT TO a CAT SCAN of the REDNECK'S HEAD: a parasite is imbedded into his brain; its tail hangs down his spine, wagging just a bit. 
KYLIE (O.S.) Drivin' 'em around... 
BACK TO THE POLICE CAR 
Bill stares at Kylie like she's insane. 
STARLA She's right. We saw one -- one came out of Wally's head. 
TREVOR Yeah. Sort of his eye, it came out there -- 
STARLA Kylie, how do you -- 
Kylie is rocking back and forth. 
STARLA Kylie, how do you know that? 
Kylie shakes her head.    She doesn't want to answer. 
BILL Kylie, honey.    Please. (MORE) 
BILL (CONT'D) A lot of bad things have happened to you today, we know. But we need your help to find out what's going on. 
Kylie CRIES. 
KYLIE I was in the bath. It tried to go inside me and I -- for a minute I became it. 
BILL The worm? 
KYLIE I got it out. 
TREVOR What are they? 
KYLIE Part of him. 
BILL Who? (pause) Who? 
KYLIE Mrs. Grant's husband. 
Starla stares at her. 
KYLIE But not always. I was -- He was... other stuff too. 
STARLA What other stuff? 
Kylie kind of points at the sky. 
TREVOR He's a fucking Martian?! 
BILL A Martian is from Mars, Trevor. 
Kylie tries to think. 
KYLIE For real it looks like a needle. Its real face. But it always gots another. (MORE) 
KYLIE (CONT'D) He goes from place to place, worlds... planets... killing 'em. He takes over half of what's alive and eats the other half. Till they're gone. 
They stare at her, freaked out. 
KYLIE Now he's here.     He went in Mr. Grant. 
STARLA Through a wound on his stomach? 
Kylie nods. 
KYLIE He took him over. His body. His -- his brain, everything what he knew. He's only been dumb stuff before - amoeba-things, and rhino-things. He liked being human. Didn't want to change. 
We PAN TO the WINDOW of the HOME NEXT DOOR, where we can see a FAMILY gathered around a CORPSE, feasting on his goopy flesh. 
EXT. ROAD TOWARD WHEELSY - NIGHT 
STARLA What's that? 
Our foursome look up to see a Buick Century parked at a haphazard angle in the middle of the road. The driver's side door is open. The headlights are still on. 
They look at each other. Bill takes his flashlight off his belt and aims it in front of him. They all slowly approach the car, in the darkness. 
Bill aims his flashlight into the Buick.   The keys are still there, but no one's inside. 
Trevor looks at the grill of the car.   It's dented. 
TREVOR They musta hit a deer. Probably got out to see if it's okay. 
Bill and the others look around. 
Bill hears a LAPPING sound behind him.   He turns, aiming the flashlight downward. 
A DISEASED DEER is lapping a thick purple tongue on the wound of a dead man. The sick creature is mostly hairless and pink and covered in veins. Bulbous black eyes hang on the sides of its head like a goldfish's. 
The diseased deer glances up at Bill and GROWLS a low growl. 
BILL Fuck me. 
The deer springs upward, bringing his hoofs into Bill's chest. Bill is knocked violently to the gravel, dropping his shotgun and satchel. The deer rears back and brings his hoofs down into Bill again. They CRACK Bill's head against the hard road. 
Kylie, Trevor, and Starla see diseased deer coming in at them from different directions. The deer SCREECH like dying rabbits. 
TREVOR Bambi-rats! 
Trevor aims his pistol at a DEER jumping toward him. He SHOOTS, misses. The deer knocks him down. The deer stomps his feet, rearing up and down on Trevor's ribs, almost like a little dance. The deer tears at Trevor's sleeve with decidedly carnivorous teeth, forcing him into letting go of his gun. 
Kylie SCREAMS. She dives into a small space beneath a rock overhang on the side of the road. She watches what's going on from there. 
Starla sees the Buick a few yards away. She glances beside her to see the largest diseased deer of all, a HORNED BUCK, careening toward her. 
She dashes toward the Buick as fast as she can. 
A TUMOROUS DOE leaps onto Bill, biting into his shoulder and tearing at his flesh, so now he has two deer on him. Bill is bleeding, dizzy, and disoriented, but he's able to turn, just a bit, to see the barrel of his shotgun above him. He tries to scoot himself back as he's being battered. He reaches up for the shotgun; but the tips of his fingers barely graze the muzzle. 
Starla arrives at the Buick, and starts to crawl into the front seat. 
But the horned buck is upon her.   He bites into Starla's ankle. She SCREAMS. 
He yanks back on her, half pulling her onto the road. But Starla grabs onto the steering wheel with all her might, and pulls against the horned buck's massive power. 
The deer on Trevor starts pulling him off, dragging him down the road as he HOLLERS. 
Kylie, underneath the rock overhang, watches Bill try to scoot himself back and reach for the shotgun. It's just a little too far away. She works up her nerve and slowly starts to crawl out toward him. 
As Starla is stretched between the horned buck pulling on her ankle, and her hand on the steering wheel, she's able to flip on her side and turn the keys in the ignition; the ENGINE STARTS. She reaches one hand down to the floorboard, pressing on the gas. 
The Buick lurches forward, wrenching her away from the horned buck's mouth. 
Bill reaches again for the barrel of his rifle. It's too far away. But then he sees Kylie, at the butt of the rifle. She reaches out and pushes it just a little, into Bill's hand. Bill grips the muzzle like a baseball bat, and swings it into the face of the deer jumping on him, knocking the beast back. 
The deer tries to stumble forward again, but its whole head and neck have been knocked askew. It topples over, dead. 
Bill flips the shotgun forward into his hands. He stuffs the muzzle into the tumorous doe biting into his leg. The deer looks at him. Blood is running down Bill's face and he looks half-crazed. Bill glances down and sees the telephone wire wrapped around her ankle. 
Bill pulls the trigger, destroying her. 
He stands, looking around for the deer with Trevor. It has dragged him a fair distance down the street. Bill SHOOTS once, missing it, and again, hitting it straight on. 
Kylie looks around to see more diseased deer running through the fields toward them. 
Starla pulls herself into the driver's seat and backs up alongside her friends. Throws open the passenger door. 
STARLA Get in! 
INT. BUICK CENTURY - MOMENTS LATER 
Bill fumbles for the radio controls. 
BILL Shelby! 
Trevor looks out the window, watching the deer fade away behind them. 
TREVOR When I buy my zoo, I'm leaving them things the hell out! 
BILL Shelby! 
The diseased townsfolk WAIL and SLAP their hands on the walls, almost rhythmically, like some tribal ritual. Some push on the doors. 
INT. FLOWER STORE STORAGE AREA - NIGHT 
Bill hears something POP behind him. He turns to see a little hole in one of the doors. Three diseased fingers slip inside, trying to pull away more. 
Bill uses the circular saw to cut off the fingers. 
An arm pops through the door.    Bill slams the circular saw into that. Blood spurts.     Bone grinds. 
A man's eye peeks through another crack. Bill jams the circular saw through the crack and into the man's face. 
EXT. FLOWER STORE - NIGHT 
The FACE-SAWED MAN backs away from the hole, clutching his bleeding eye. 
INT. FLOWER STORE STORAGE AREA - NIGHT 
Bill spots a wide piece of shelving falling off the door across from him. He runs over to the space, when the circular saw stops turning. Bill turns to see he's accidentally unplugged it. 
EXT. FLOWER STORE - NIGHT 
The diseased townsfolk have all gathered on one side of the building now, putting all their efforts into tearing down one door. Some have even climbed onto the roof above it, curling off the gutter and roofing overhead. 
INT. FLOWER STORE STORAGE AREA - NIGHT 
Bill grabs his leather satchel, and starts to reload his shotgun. Starla sees that the diseased townsfolk have almost torn down one of the doors. 
STARLA This is stupid. 
Starla goes to the other door, and starts tearing away the planks they nailed there. 
BILL What are you doing?! 
STARLA We can't make it. Just get away, when you get the chance. 
BILL What? 
STARLA He wants me, Bill! I'm going to get him to take me to him! See if you can follow me, and kill him! 
BILL No, Starla!   No! 
Another full metal plate is pushed off the door. A DISEASED MAN'S face peeks through. Trevor swirls to see it. The Man GLEEKS, hitting Trevor on his chest. Trevor looks down, in shock. 
And the whole door and part of the wall bursts open. The Diseased pour inside and around Trevor, GLEEKING all over him, splattering his body with the burning liquid. Trevor starts to puff up, swelling, becoming soft. They grab him. 
BILL Nooo! 
Bill grabs Trevor by the wrist, and tries to pull him away from them. But Trevor SCREAMS in agony; the liquid has made his flesh too soft. His entire body splits apart like wet tissue, his organs spilling out in front of them. 
Bill stares down in shock, still holding Trevor's arm. 
Starla has pulled away enough boards of the other door. She throws it open. None of the diseased are on this side of the building anymore. She moves outside. 
EXT. FLOWER STORE - NIGHT 
Bill follows her. Two DISEASED PEOPLE appear, SCREECHING and running toward them. Bill SHOOTS them both. And he makes a break for it, running as fast as he can across the street. 
He turns, expecting to see Starla right behind him. But she has stayed behind, staring quietly at the ground. Starla has tears in her eyes. She motions with her head for Bill to go. Bill is confused. 
The diseased townsfolk come up around Starla from the sides of the flower store, no one paying attention to Bill. They encircle her, slowly. Some SCREECH angrily at her. She's too disgusted or fearful to even look in their eyes. They BREATHE with SICK, RASPY breath. 
DISEASED WOMAN                 DISEASED KID Starlaaaaaaa!                  Starlaaaa! 
And they WAIL, in a cacophony of simultaneous voices, all the deep angers, fears, frustrations, and jealousies they inherited from Grant Grant, such as: 
SMASHED-FACE MAN You said for better or worse! You lied! 
NO LONGER PRETTY                BRENDA'S HUSBAND I gave you everything!         I.   Loved. You! 
SHELBY                           FAT SICK GUY It's not just about lesson       I wanted you by my side, plans! Hank Wilcox wants         sugarplum. But I'm too your pussy!                      ugly now, huh!!? 
MR. INAPPROPRIATE                WAITRESS Your daddy'd still be            You always thought I was a fucking your every hole          joke, ain't you? weren't it for me!! 
BRENDA'S HUSBAND You like Pardy better'n me? That's who you want to screw now?! 
STARLA Grant... Please... 
They surround her. They touch her body, her ass, her breasts. Pull on her clothes. She trembles. 
STARLA I'm sorry... I know I haven't behaved how you -- how you want. I know. Don't... hurt... me. 
Starla glances down to see a diseased dog licking her calf, tasting her. 
Starla looks up through a missing section of ceiling; she can see a tiny piece of Grant in the bedroom above her. 
STARLA Grant?   We should talk. 
EXT. NEIGHBOR'S BACKYARD - NIGHT 
Bill has made his way into the backyard. He looks over at the Grant home. Some diseased townsfolk in the backyard could conceivably see or hear him. He tries the back door, but it's locked. 
Bill notices a window slightly open.    He starts to push it up. It SQUEAKS LOUDLY. 
He peers over at the diseased. They don't hear. He throws the window up further, and crawls inside the home. 
INT. GRANT FOYER - NIGHT 
Starla stands at the base of the stairwell.    The SONG is louder. 
STARLA Grant? 
She starts to ascend the stairs.     They CREAK beneath her feet. 
INT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Bill peeks out the window, careful not to be seen by the diseased humans around Grant's. Bill can see Starla in the home next door, walking up the stairs. 
Bill runs toward the stairwell here. 
INT. GRANT UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Starla looks down the hall.    Most of the walls have been torn away. 
Between wooden beams, Starla can see Grant's cumbersome mass, his back to her, in what was once the bedroom. 
In front of him, the SONG ENDS on the CD player. It starts into the NEXT SONG on the album. Grant uses one of his crusty tentacles to push the back button. 
EVERY WOMAN IN THE WORLD starts over. 
Starla walks toward him. 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Grant keeps his back to her. Starla takes in the room. Photographs from their scrapbooks are all over the walls: photos from their wedding, and vacations, and family parties. 
STARLA Hey, Grant. 
Starla walks around Grant, giving him a decent berth. 
STARLA You did some real interesting decorating here. 
Grant watches her from the corner of his sad, purulent eye. 
STARLA Hey. 
Starla walks by a window. 
STARLA Look, the sun's starting to come up. 
Starla starts to open the drapes. 
INT. NEIGHBOR'S UPSTAIRS HALL - NIGHT 
Bill happens to look through the neighbors' kid's bedroom and to the home across the way where Starla is pulling the drapes away from the window. She sees Bill there. 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Grant SCREECHES angrily at Starla. She quickly closes the drapes, not letting on she saw Bill. 
STARLA Sorry. I didn't -- I didn't know you wanted it dark. 
INT. KID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Bill walks into this young boy's bedroom, filled with airplanes and sports memorabilia. 
He peeks around the window frame at the Grant bedroom window, now closed to him. He makes sure his shotgun is loaded. 
INT. GRANT BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Starla tries to change the subject by walking to a wall with the photos. 
STARLA You like these memories, huh, Grant? 
Grant looks away from her.   Starla moves toward him, almost seductively. 
STARLA You like being called Grant, don't you? 
The diseased GLEEK at Bill, but Bill throws himself forward, letting himself fall through the flimsy balustrade -- 
EXT. GRANT HOME - NIGHT 
Bill lands hard on the lawn between the two homes. He grabs a .38, and stands beside the window on Grant's house. 
Through the window he sees Grant barreling down the stairs. 
Bill SHOOTS Grant with the .38, SHATTERING the glass. 
He UNLOADS the clip into him. 
The diseased townsfolk surround Bill, grabbing him. Grant, using the others' eyes to see, snaps his tentacle forward, wrapping it around Bill's neck, raising him up. Grant SCREECHES. 
INT. GRANT FOYER - NIGHT 
Starla appears at the top of the stairs, clutching her bloody side. She has the pin in one hand and the grenade in the other. 
With all her remaining effort, she lobs the grenade behind Grant. 
GRANT Er...? 
It EXPLODES. 
EXT. GRANT HOME - NIGHT 
Grant's exploding flesh sends Bill flying backwards. 
INT. GRANT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Starla is thrown back. 
EXT. GRANT HOME - NIGHT 
Around the house, the diseased's eyes gaze lifelessly upward as they each plummet to the grass. 
FADE TO: 
EXT. GRANT HOME - MORNING 
Bill unwraps what's left of the tentacle from his bruised neck, and looks around at the dead diseased. Grant's splattered flesh is around him. 
Bill hears a quiet RATTLING sound. He looks around him. And then sees, down at his feet, what is actually a distorted piece of Grant's cerebellum. Sticking out of a new organic slit in the cerebellum is the quill-like spore. It quivers and trembles upward, its little bulbed spurs popping out. 
INT. GRANT HALLWAY - MORNING 
Starla crawls forward to look down through the smoke: most of the second floor has been blown away. Her mutated husband is just a mass of flesh and alien organs. 
EXT. GRANT HOME - MOMENTS LATER 
Starla comes around the side of the house, holding a paper towel roll to the slice on her ribs. She sees Bill standing there. She smiles. 
STARLA Hey. 
Bill smiles too. 
BILL Hey. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 
Bill and Starla hobble down the town center. The leather bag is slung over Bill's shoulder. Everything around them is dead: the victims who were being feasted on, as well as the various diseased. The torture is over, but no life remains. 
EXT. MAIN STREET - MOMENTS LATER 
Bill finds an abandoned Nissan Maxima in the middle of the street, with the keys still in it. 
BILL Starla, over here. 
EXT. WHEELSY EXIT - LATER 
In the Maxima now, Bill and Starla pull around a toppled ambulance and through a spouting fire hydrant, and out onto -- 
EXT. ROAD BEYOND WHEELSY - DAY 
The sun is bright and beautiful, glistening on the car. Bill and Starla breathe more easily and smile a little as they head up this long, barren road outside the city. 
EXT. CLUSTER OF STORES - MOMENTS LATER 
Bill and Starla pass through a small block of stores. 
Starla gazes out the window to see people -- real, actual, HEALTHY HUMAN BEINGS: men and women and children -- going about their daily chores. Tears come to her eyes. 
Bill grabs Starla's hand.   She clenches his tightly. 
