SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE 
Written by 
Simon Beaufoy 
November 4th, 2007 
© SLUMDOG FILMS LIMITED 39 LONG ACRE LONDON WC2E 9LG 
1   INT. JAVED'S SAFE-HOUSE. BATHROOM. NIGHT.                 1 
An expensive bathroom suite. Excess of marble and gold taps. Into the bath, a hand is scattering rupee notes. Hundreds and hundreds of notes, worth hundreds of thousands of rupees. The sound of a fist thumping on the bathroom door, furious shouting from the other side. 
JAVED O/S Salim! Salim! 
2   INT. STUDIO. BACKSTAGE. DAY.                              2 
Darkness. Then, glimpses of faces. In the half-light, shadowy figures move with purpose. An implacable voice announces. 
TALKBACK V/O Ten to white-out, nine, eight, seven... 
PREM Are you ready? 
Silence. A hand shakes a shoulder a little too roughly. 
PREM (CONT'D) I said are you ready? 
JAMAL Yes. 
3   INT. JAVED'S SAFE-HOUSE. BATHROOM. NIGHT.                 3 
The thumping at the door continues. The sound of mumbled Indian prayer. Dull gleam of a pistol. A hand cracks the chamber open. Loads a single bullet into the chamber, snaps the chamber shut. 
TALKBACK V/O ...three, two, one, zero. Cue Prem, cue applause... 
Suddenly, the door splinters as it is smashed through. A burst of gun-fire and white light as suddenly... 
4   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                       4 
...we are back in the studio, the gun-fire morphing into rapturous applause. 
(CONTINUED) 
4   CONTINUED:                                                       4 
TALKBACK V/O Go, Prem. 
A wall of light and noise as the two walk on stage. Cheering, music, banks of searing studio lights. On stage, Jamal, an eighteen year-old Indian boy-man stares, petrified. He would surely turn and run but for the iron grip on his shoulder of the smiling host, Prem Kumar. 
PREM Welcome to Who Wants To Be A Millionaire! 
More applause. 
PREM (CONT'D) Please give a warm welcome to our first contestant of the night- a local from our very own Mumbai! 
Under cover of the wild applause, Prem ushers Jamal towards the guest's chair, leaning in and hissing. 
PREM (CONT'D) Smile, dammit. 
The lights seem to bore into him but Jamal manages a tentative smile. Out of nowhere, a hand slaps him ferociously across the face. Then again and again. Blood trickles from his mouth. 
5   INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM. NIGHT.                               5 
The studio lights have seamlessly transformed into the harsh bulb of an interrogation light. Jamal is strung from the ceiling by his arms. 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS Your name, bhen chod. 
Constable Srinivas's hand pulls back Jamal's head by the hair, forcing him to stare directly into the lights. 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS (CONT'D) Your name! 
JAMAL Jamal Malik. 
And seamlessly we are back.... 
6   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                         6 
...on the set of Who Wants to be a Millionaire. Prem leans back in his chair, a man at home in his surroundings. Jamal sits opposite, frozen. 
PREM So, Jamal, tell us a bit about yourself. 
Close on Jamal's face. Without warning, it is shoved under water. 
7   INT. BUCKET. NIGHT.                                         7 
We look up from the bottom of the bucket at the screaming face of a drowning man. His head shakes desperately, pointlessly. Then Jamal's face is dragged up again, roaring for breath. Close on his eyes. 
JAMAL V/O I work in a call centre. In Juhu. 
8   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                         8 
PREM A Phone-basher! And what type of call centre would this be? 
JAMAL XL 5. Mobile phones. 
PREM Aha! So, you're the man who rings me up every single day of my life with Special Offers, huh? 
JAMAL No, actually, I'm an assistant. 
He pays no heed to the rest of the children who are scattering fast to the edges of the tarmac. The ball seems suspended in the blue sky. Shouts from the other children seem very far away. He doesn't notice that they are screaming for him to get out of the way. Jamal adjusts his feet for the perfect catch. Then out of nowhere, a light aircraft almost takes his head off as it comes in to land on the tarmac runway. Jamal is knocked to his feet by the down-draft of the plane. The ball bounces away. Also flattened, Salim gets to his feet. 
SALIM (CONT'D) How could you drop that? It was a sitter. 
Then Salim's face turns to one of alarm. 
12   EXT. AIRPORT PERIMETER. DAY.                                12 
At the back of a pack of children, carrying a piece of wood crudely fashioned into a sword, Jamal is running for his life, pursued by an ancient but surprisingly nimble Security Guard from the airport who is screaming abuse and wielding a long stick. The kids dash across a rubbish dump and disappear down dozens of tiny lanes that run in between the shacks of the slum. 
SECURITY GUARD Private-ka land! Private-ka land! The planes won't kill you, mader chod, I will! 
Jamal and Salim- also with a wooden sword- break off, head down a separate lane. The Guard pursues them. 
13   INT. JUHU SLUM. DAY.                                        13 
The lanes in between the corrugated iron shacks are three feet wide, with an open drain running down the middle. Many of the precarious upper floors of the shacks have been built right over the paths, turning them into black tunnels. Tunnels shot through with slivers of light. If you didn't live here, you would be lost and frightened in minutes. 
But these children are natives and with the practice of many years, Jamal and Salim zig-zag down the warren of lanes. 
They dodge past people cooking in the doorways, sleeping, washing clothes or in the case of Vinod, a naked four year-old, pissing into the drain. Salim shouts a warning. 
(CONTINUED) 
13   CONTINUED:                                                13 
SALIM Vinod! Musketeers coming through! 
Without breaking step, they both jump expertly over the stream of piss. Not so the Security Guard who gets it all over his trousers, but doesn't stop the pursuit. 
The two children charge past a shack filled to the roof with chickens in cages who all start squawking. They break out into the sunlight of the `main road' of the slum lined with shops. It is packed: with people, stalls, bicycles and cows. All modern India is here, drinking tea, shouting at each other, selling food, playing carom, video games. Leaving a trail of shouting and wreckage behind them, the pair approach a brand new Mercedes almost blocking the lane. Beside it stands Javed, an impressive man in a beautiful suit and his two Minders. Jamal and Salim skid to a stop, put their hands together in respectful greeting and edge ever so carefully past the immaculate paintwork of the car. 
Still in pursuit, the Security Guard also slides carefully past the car with deprecating bows and smiles. On past the chi stall where a crowd has gathered to watch a hindi film blaring from the tv rigged up overhead. The irate Security Guard gets tangled up in a bicycle. Jamal and Salim stop to give him a taunting, hip-gyrating parody of the dance on the tv before scooting down another tunnel. They break out into sunlight again. 
WOMAN'S VOICE Jamal! 
Jamal skids to a halt, bumping into Salim who is already frozen. 
JAMAL Shit. Mummy-ji. 
JAMAL'S MOTHER Don't you move a muscle. 
The Security Guard arrives and he too skids to a halt at the sight of Jamal's mother. 
JAMAL'S MOTHER (CONT'D) Thank you, Mister Gupta. I will deal with these two. 
The Guard puts his hands together in grudging respect as Jamal's Mother lifts each skinny kid off the floor by their t-shirt and marches them down the road. 
14   INT. SCHOOL. DAY.                                           14 
The two renegades are dumped by Jamal's Mother into their desks as Mister Nandha hands out ancient school books. 
MISTER NANDHA So, the musketeers return. We are honoured. Salim. Or Porthos, isn't it? 
He crashes the heavy book down on his head. Salim opens the book. Jamal glances over and turns the book the right way round for Salim. 
SALIM I know! 
Mister Nandha hovers over Jamal's head. He winces in anticipation. 
MISTER NANDHA And Athos. 
The book comes down like thunder. Jamal blinks from the impact and suddenly we are back.... 
15   INT. INSPECTOR'S OFFICE. DAY.                               15 
... in the Inspector's office. Jamal watches Srinivas fiddling with the video recorder, trying to get a picture. Through the pebbled glass, Jamal sees shapes moving along the corridor. 
16   INT. CORRIDOR. POLICE STATION. DAY.                         16 
The Commissioner of Police is fawning along beside Prem as they walk. The Young Constable hurries behind. 
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE It is so kind of you to visit our station, Sir. A great honour. 
PREM Not at all, not at all. I hope you will visit us, Commissioner. 
Out of his jacket pocket comes a couple of tickets. 
PREM (CONT'D) Bring the family. It's a lot of fun. 
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE Oh! A thousand thanks, Sir. Missus Janda will be overcome. (CONTINUED) 
16   CONTINUED:                                                    16 
He turns to the Young Constable. 
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE (CONT'D) chi, you lazy chutiyé, chi! 
The Inspector joins them in the corridor. 
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE (CONT'D) Ah, Inspector! Cracked it? 
The Inspector moves his head. Maybe yes, maybe no. 
INSPECTOR Nearly, Sir. 
The Commissioner is just able to contain his apoplexy. 
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE Nearly? Nearly? When Prem Kumar himself has- 
PRAKASH (CONT'D) I'm off to Devi's bog. Give me that. 
He snatches the coin back from Salim and hurries off. Salim bangs on the toilet door. 
SALIM You just lost me good money, you stupid idiot- 
Salim stops. In the distance, there is the faint sound of shouting, a crowd coming closer. Then the crowd bursts through the outer shacks of the slum, pour onto the rubbish dump and make for the airfield. 
MAN It's Amitabh! That's his helicopter! 
JAMAL O.S. Amitabh? Amitabh Bacchan? 
21   INT/EXT. TOILET. NIGHT.                                    21 
Jamal peers through one of the many cracks in the shack. He sees crowds surging around the pier, charging towards a landing helicopter. Salim shoves the chair under the door handle- effectively locking it- and runs down the pier to join the chase. Jamal pulls up his shorts. 
JAMAL No! Wait! Salim, sala! Salim! 
(CONTINUED) 
21   CONTINUED:                                                  21 
Rattles the locked door. Pulls a torn flyer from his pocket advertising an Amitabh movie. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Wait! Amitabh.... 
He looks down the toilet hole at the sewage beneath him, the landing helicopter, the disappearing crowd. A final rattle of the door. There is only one way out. He jumps down the hole, sprawling headlong into a year's worth of human waste, managing to keep the flyer out the mire. He runs for the helicopter. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Amitabh-ji! Amitabh-ji! 
Salim is at the back of the crowd, trying to force a way through, but the adults shove him back. Not so for Jamal. The down-draft from the helicopter flicks bits of sewage from his clothes. Disgusted fans curse him and get out of his way. Suddenly, the red sea parts and there is nobody between Jamal and Amitabh Bacchan getting out of the helicopter. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Please. Amitabh-ji. 
Jamal holds out his flyer. Used to signing autographs, the movie star barely looks at Jamal. He takes the flyer and scribbles his autograph on it. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) A thousand thanks, Amitabh-ji. 
He hands the flyer back to Jamal as his bodyguards surround him and hustle him into a car. Jamal chases the flyer across the tarmac, grabs it. Kisses it. 
22   EXT. JUHU SLUM. NIGHT.                                      22 
From high up, the rickety tin roof-tops of the slum seem to stretch to the horizon. There is a distant shout, a figure waving an arm. 
MAN It's coming! 
Then another shout and another, a chain of voices coming closer. People come out of their doorways with pails and buckets. The shouts come closer until we see a naked figure entirely encased in bubbles dancing and singing in the lane. Jamal is the happiest boy in the slum. 
JAMAL (singing) Amitabh, Amitabh, oh Amitabh! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
22   CONTINUED:                                                22 JAMAL (CONT'D) I have your autograph, oh, holy Amitabh! 
MOTHER Here it comes! 
Water comes bubbling through a hose and Jamal's mother hoses down her ecstatic son. 
23   EXT. JUHU SLUM. NIGHT.                                    23 
Not far away, Salim wanders to Mister Chi's stall. He glances around to make sure everybody is glued to the hindi film on Mister Chi's tv and surreptitiously slips Mister Chi the signed flyer. Mister Chi takes a look and gives Salim a small wad of rupees. He sticks the money in his pocket, slinks away. 
24   EXT. JUHU SLUM. NIGHT.                                    24 
A tear-stained Jamal is furiously trying to batter Salim, but Salim's extra strength and height means that he can keep Jamal at bay with one hand, Jamal's flailing fists punching thin air. 
JAMAL Sala! Sala! 
Salim's laughter only makes Jamal cry harder. 
25   INT. INSPECTOR'S OFFICE. NIGHT.                           25 
Close on the tv screen in the Inspector's office. Prem ponders Jamal's choice. Presses a button on his computer. 
PREM V/O You chose A- Amitabh Bacchan. Guess what? You just won one thousand rupees! 
Applause on screen. The Inspector looks at Jamal. Jamal shrugs. 
JAMAL You don't have to be a genius. 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS I knew it was Amitabh. 
JAMAL Like I said. 
Constable Srinivas twists Jamal's arm behind his back, evincing a squeal of pain from Jamal. 
(CONTINUED) 
25   CONTINUED:                                                  25 
JAMAL (CONT'D) (squealing) He's the most famous man in India...! 
The Inspector stares at Jamal, turns back to the tv where Prem is asking the next question. 
PREM O/S For four thousand rupees....the national emblem of India is a picture of three lions. What is written underneath? Is it... 
26   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                         26 
PREM ...A) The truth alone triumphs. B) Lies alone triumph. C) Fashion alone triumphs. D) Money alone triumphs. 
Prem shoots a mock puzzled look out to the audience eliciting giggles from them. 
PREM (CONT'D) Religion! Interesting. For sixteen thousand rupees, in depictions of the God Ram, he is famously holding what in his right hand? Is it A) a flower. B) a scimitar. C) a child or D) a bow and arrow? 
31   EXT. DHOBI. JUHU SLUM. DAY.                                 31 
Right next to the railway lines is a pond of dirty water surrounded by shacks in which dozens of women are washing clothes. Trains flash past only feet away from them. Down the other end of the pond, nine-year old Jamal and Salim are splashing noisily with some other children. Jamal's mother pauses in her scrubbing, wipes sweat from her forehead and gazes up at the leaden sky. 
JAMAL AND SALIM'S MOTHER It's going to come. Today. I can feel it. 
The woman next to her nods. 
WOMAN Hope so. My head is exploding. 
(CONTINUED) 
31   CONTINUED:                                                 31 
MOTHER Yes. We need rain. 
Jamal is trying to intercept the ball that Salim and Krishna are throwing to each other. He's not having much success. The ball flies overhead again from Salim to Krishna. Jamal dives for it, misses and goes underwater. When he comes up for air, he shakes his head, clearing his ears of water. Then he stops, listens. Shakes his head again. Definitely something strange. Thunder? Salim and Krishna are trading catches, unaware that anything has changed. But Jamal's mother has heard it too. The faintest sound of shouting, roaring. The wave of noise is still faint but getting louder. A frozen moment broken by: 
MOTHER (CONT'D) Run! Jamal, Salim, run! 
Everybody stares at her. A train speeds through as she continues to shout, her words lost beneath the thundering train. 
MOTHER (CONT'D) Go! Run! 
The train goes through, the last carriage flying past suddenly opening up the sight of a wall of rioting men wielding clubs, scythes, metal bars. They come screaming across the railway tracks. 
SALIM Krishna, quick! 
Salim holds out his hand to Krishna who is wading with difficulty through the water. 
KRISHNA No way! You're a bloody Muslim. Get away from me! 
The rioters leap the tracks and are upon them. 
KRISHNA (CONT'D) They're Muslims! Him and him! 
MOTHER Go! 
Salim and Jamal scramble out and retreat into the lanes. Salim turns to see his Mother felled by a rioter. She is surrounded by screaming, chanting men who rain blows down on her. Jamal runs back and drags Salim down an alley. As they head down the alley, they get glimpses of burning houses, fleeing women, a three- year old boy in a doorway, painted entirely in garish blue. He stares at them. In his hand, he is carrying a bow and arrow. An eleven-year old girl dressed only in a pair of pants runs after them. (CONTINUED) 
31   CONTINUED: (2)                                            31 
She has two bleeding red gashes on her back. They turn a corner and head towards some vans full of police. Jamal sees Mister Nandha, the school teacher, stops. 
JAMAL Salim! 
Then Mister Nandha starts walking towards him. An oasis of calm in the chaos. Jamal looks at him with relief. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Mister Nandha. 
Mister Nandha smiles, walks towards them. 
MISTER NANDHA Ram nam satya hai, Babri Masjid dhvasth hai. 
JAMAL Mister Nandha? 
MISTER NANDHA We have destroyed your mosque. Now, the followers of Ram will drive you dogs out of our city. 
From behind his back he produces a knife and runs towards Jamal, screaming. 
MISTER NANDHA (CONT'D) Ram has returned to his temple! Ram has returned! 
They flee, but Jamal turns, sees the girl, frozen. He chases back a few steps, hauls her arm. The spell broken, and they are off. 
32   INT. STREET. EVENING.                                     32 
They reach the safety of the police vans. But inside the vans, the police are smoking, laughing, playing cards. Down the street, a man comes whirling out of a doorway, his hair on fire. He falls into the middle of the street and is engulfed by rioters. Unperturbed, the police continue to chat. Salim and Jamal look on, horrified. Then one of the police men turns, looks at them. Is interested. Motions to a colleague. Puts out his cigarette with purpose. 
JAMAL Let's go, bhai. 
Salim and Jamal run. The girl follows. 
33   EXT. MUMBAI. EVENING.                                     33 
Salim and Jamal stand on a hill overlooking the city. Black smoke billows from a large area that is clearly the Juhu slum. Standing a little way off is the girl. 
JAMAL We should go back. 
Silence. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) See if Ama- 
Salim shakes his head fiercely, silencing Jamal for a moment. But only a moment. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) What about Jeevan Chacha? 
Salim shakes his head. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Maybe he- 
Salim shakes his head again. 
SALIM - I saw him. He was with them. 
JAMAL But he wouldn't hurt- 
SALIM - he was with them! 
DIRECTOR V/O Prem? Tone it down, for goodness sake. You're making him a laughing stock. 
Prem glances up at the gallery with contempt. 
PREM We're having fun here. They love it...Where the hell do you get them from? 
He makes no attempt to hide the conversation from Jamal. 
DIRECTOR V/O It's supposed to be a quiz show, not a blood sport. 
FLOOR MANAGER Two minutes. 
(CONTINUED) 
38   CONTINUED: (2)                                             38 
PREM Stop wetting your pants. I'll be a good little boy with the next one. Promise. 
He chucks the head-phones back at the Floor Manager. Glances in the wings. Sees Nita, the make-up woman. Gets up and goes over. 
39   INT. STUDIO. BACKSTAGE. NIGHT.                             39 
In the half-light, backstage, Nita dabs his face with powder. 
PREM Meet me after the show. Please. 
NITA No. 
PREM Nita, I can explain. 
NITA No need. I read it in bloody Stardust. Didn't even have the balls to tell me. "Prem's happiness with another baby on the way". After everything you said... 
PREM Baby, it all happened before I met you. I swear to you. 
NITA She's got the gestation period of an elephant, then. 
Prem is about to object. But instead, he laughs. 
PREM You see? Amidst all this misery, only you can make me laugh. 
Scornful but hints of melting. 
NITA All this misery... 
PREM Her and I- nothing. You have to believe me, baby... 
Nita turns away. The Floor Manager comes over. 
FLOOR MANAGER One minute. (CONTINUED) 
39   CONTINUED:                                                39 
Prem slings himself in a chair. 
PREM No. I'm not going on. 
NITA Prem... 
PREM I can't. Without you, it's all pointless. 
Clicks his fingers at the Floor Manager. 
PREM (CONT'D) You. Tell the Director. 
Nita shakes her head at the Floor Manager who by now is looking very worried. 
FLOOR MANAGER Thirty seconds. 
Prem shrugs and folds his arms. Sees her weaken. 
NITA Prem... 
PREM Calypso Bar, private room, just you and me? 
FLOOR MANAGER Fifteen. 
NITA (furious) Alright. 
He grins, jumps up, blows her a kiss, and stalks back on stage. 
40   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                       40 
He sits back down, says almost to himself. 
PREM Steel balls. 
Turns to Jamal. 
PREM (CONT'D) Okay, Juhu boy, you've had a good run. Take your Mother to Khandala and eat some chiki. 
JAMAL My Mother's dead. (CONTINUED) 
40   CONTINUED:                                                40 
PREM Well, your girlfriend then. Even better. 
JAMAL I don't have a girl-friend. 
PREM Live wire like you? You surprise me. 
JAMAL I wouldn't be here if she had. 
INSPECTOR Pretty was she? 
Jamal stares down at his feet. 
INSPECTOR (CONT'D) Guess not. 
Right in the eyes. 
JAMAL The most beautiful woman in the world. 
Constable Srinivas snorts. Suddenly, Jamal is out of his chair and at Srinivas' throat. The combined force of the Inspector and Srinivas force him roughly back down. He is again handcuffed to the chair. 
INSPECTOR OF POLICE Well, well. The slum dog barks. Money or women. The reason for most mistakes in life. Looks like you got mixed up with both. Srinivas, you need the exercise: a trip to VT Station to check on the statue. And lock your bloody bike up. 
Constable Srinivas swears under his breath but bumbles out. 
(CONTINUED) 
45   CONTINUED:                                                45 
INSPECTOR That's the chutiyé out the way. Now, man to man. How did you know all the answers? 
JAMAL If I knew, I'd tell you. 
46   OMITTED                                                   46 
47   OMITTED                                                   47 
48   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                       48 
PREM Now we're into the serious money. For two hundred and fifty thousand rupees, ladies and gentlemen, a quarter of a million rupees...the song Chalo Ri Murali was written by which famous Indian poet. Was it A) Surdas. B) Tulsidas. C) Mira Bai. D) Kabir. Remember you still have two lifelines- fifty- fifty and Phone A Friend. Tempted to use one? 
JAMAL No. 
PREM No? 
JAMAL I know this one. 
PREM Oh. I see. An expert on the poets, huh? 
The lights dim, the music swells and Prem presses his computer. 
49   EXT. MUMBAI STREET. NIGHT.                                49 
Jamal is studying a piece of paper and reading out numbers from it. There is something not quite right about Jamal- perhaps the fact that there are two feet by his ears. Salim is standing on his shoulders and spraying the numbers on a wall with an aerosol and a certain lack of confidence. 
(CONTINUED) 
49   CONTINUED:                                                 49 
JAMAL Four, nine, zero, nine- the one with the stick going down, Salim- six- stick going up- 
Latika's head appears from around the corner. 
LATIKA (whispered) Oi! 
But they don't hear. Then she is running for her life past the pair of them. 
JAMAL Six, one, shit, let's go- 
Salim collapses off Jamal's shoulders and all three run off down an alley past a dozen of the gang's sprayed-on adverts all reading: "Beanbags- 989 4909661". A fat Security Guard with a long stick huffs round the corner. Chases them up an alley. Nowhere to go except through an imposing gate that clearly leads to a private house. 
SECURITY GUARD Got you now, little shits. 
50   EXT. GARDEN. NIGHT.                                        50 
They charge across the lawn, down one side of the house where all the washing is hanging. The Guard gets caught up in drying sheets, towels. He fights his way through to see Salim, Latika and Jamal leaping over the wall to safety. But Jamal turns, jumps back and grabs a girl's dress from the line. 
SECURITY GUARD Aha! Little thief! 
The Security Guard lands a couple of blows on Jamal's back as he dodges around him and back across the lawn, dress in hand. The Security Guard gives up. 
SECURITY GUARD (CONT'D) Pervert! 
51   INT. ALLEY. NIGHT.                                         51 
Jamal is examing the bruises on his legs. 
SALIM Useless bloody look-out. What good is she, huh? 
(CONTINUED) 
51   CONTINUED:                                                51 
LATIKA (infuriated) I tried to warn you. 
JAMAL It's okay, Salim. 
Latika slips on the dress. Spins. Both of them look up. Stare. She pulls her hair back, smiles, is transformed into a beautiful girl. 
52   EXT. GORAI BEACH DUMPING GROUND. DAY.                     52 
Blazing sun. Diggers and trucks are shifting mounds of rubble on a rubbish dump that seems to stretch for ever. Oblivious to the dust kicked up by the trucks, Latika is picking up old plastic bags, examining each one and putting the less worn in a big sack. The dress is recognisable but dusty and torn. She stoops to dig another bag out of the dirt, but stops and stares. Shimmering in the heat, a rickety pick-up truck comes through the rubbish dump gates. Toots at the Guard who waves, pulls up in the dump. "Hope Orphanage is written on the side of the van. A man gets out. Looks around. 
53   INT. `TENT'. DAY.                                         53 
Under sheets of plastic propped up on sticks, Jamal and Salim are sleeping out the hottest part of the day. Jamal wakes to see a figure standing over him- a silhouette with a halo of sun behind him. Out of his bag, the man produces a bottle of Thumbs Up. He uncaps it with an alluring hiss. It is almost an advert for thirst-quenching affluence. Almost instinctively, Salim and Jamal stir. 
(CONTINUED) 
59   CONTINUED:                                                  59 
He sprints out of the room, wailing. 
60   INT. ORPHANAGE. SHOWERS. NIGHT.                             60 
The lights are on and two dozen children are screaming with laughter as Salim stands under the make-shift shower directing the water down his pants to his burning genitals, his face a picture of agony. Latika wipes crushed chillies from her hands. 
SALIM You're dead, sala. 
She smiles and walks past Jamal with a shrug. Then Punnoose comes stalking in and the children scatter away. 
PUNNOOSE Get back to bed, dogs! What the hell... 
JAMAL V/O They taught me every song in the history of Indian music. 
INSPECTOR V/O And why would they do that, I wonder? 
61   INT. SHACK. NIGHT.                                          61 
In a shack, Arvind is singing one of Surdas' bhajans in front of Maman and an old man who by his ragged appearance must be a villager. Punnoose and Salim sit behind Arvind. 
MAMAN Very good, very good. I am pleased, Arvind. He is ready. 
ARVIND Ready? 
Maman nods to Punnoose. Before Arvind can turn round, Punnoose has covered his mouth with a cloth and after the briefest of struggles, Arvind's body goes limp. The villager puts an old tin box on the table. Taking the lid from the tin, he brings out a cloth and unwraps it. Inside is a spoon. He checks the edge with his thumb. Sharp. Douses it with a clear liquid from a bottle and passes it over a candle flame. The spoon whooshes with a high flame for a moment. The villager wipes it with the cloth nods to Punnoose. 
PUNNOOSE Salim! 
(CONTINUED) 
61   CONTINUED:                                                  61 
Utterly bemused, Salim nevertheless helps Punnoose lay Arvind on the table. The villager takes hold of Arvind's eyelid and pulls it open. He brings the spoon close. Suddenly, Salim is being sick in the corner of the shack. By the time he has turned back, the villager is wiping the spoon on a blood-soaked rag. 
MAMAN Okay. Take him out the back. 
Punnoose picks up Arvind and carries him out. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) Now the other one. Salim, go get Jamal. 
A frozen moment. 
SALIM What? 
MAMAN Gunfighter Number One, isn't that right, Salim? The money, the women, the cars...you want them bad, huh? And why not? 
Maman gets out of his chair. Approaches Salim. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) The time has come to choose, yaar. The life of a slum dog or the life of a man. A real man. A gunfighter, Salim. 
Maman holds Salim's head in his hands. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) Your destiny is in your hands, bhai. You can be me. Or nobody. Understand? 
SALIM Yes, Maman. 
Maman nods. 
MAMAN So, brother, go get Jamal. 
Salim is frozen for another few seconds, then turns and walks out of the door. Punnoose appears at the door. Maman nods to him and he slips off after Salim. 
62   INT. DORMITORY, ORPHANAGE. NIGHT.                           62 
All the children are asleep apart from Jamal who is crouched underneath a couple of wash-basins. (CONTINUED) 
62   CONTINUED:                                                 62 
He is talking through a plate-sized hole in the crumbling masonry. Latika's eyes can be seen. 
JAMAL ...weddings, government things, big parties. If Maman says my voice is ready. Big money. 
LATIKA Enough for a room? 
JAMAL Easily. Maybe an apartment. 
LATIKA Really? 
JAMAL That's what Arvind said. On Harbour Road. You, me and Salim. The three musketeers. 
LATIKA Harbour Road! We can have ice cream from Babanji's. 
JAMAL Every day if we want. 
Salim appears at the door. Nods his head at Jamal. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) It's my turn. 
LATIKA Good luck, Jamal. 
Latika's hand comes through the gap. Jamal takes it for a moment. Salim hisses at Jamal. He lets go of the hand and heads out. 
63   EXT. PATH. NIGHT.                                          63 
Salim and Jamal walk along the path, Jamal humming happily. Salim checks behind him, sees Punnoose following. 
(CONTINUED) 
69   CONTINUED:                                                69 
JAMAL Yes. 
PREM Computer-ji, A lock kiya-jaye. 
The lights dim, the music swells. Prem presses a button on his computer: looks him straight in the eyes for an age. 
PREM (CONT'D) (simply) Guess what? You're right. 
Applause, music, lights. 
70   INT. INSPECTOR'S OFFICE. DAY.                             70 
The Inspector is eying Jamal, weighing it all up. 
JAMAL (shrugging) Blind singers earn double. You know that. 
INSPECTOR And what happened to the girl? They blinded her too? 
JAMAL (shakes his head) They had other plans. Though it took me a long, long time to find out. 
71   EXT. TRAIN. MORNING.                                      71 
Salim and Jamal are sitting on top of the train. Jamal is staring blankly down the track. 
SALIM Aré, Jamal... 
Salim puts an arm around Jamal's shoulder. Jamal wipes the tears from his eyes, shakes his head furiously. 
Salim gets up. Holds out his hand. 
SALIM (CONT'D) Come. 
JAMAL Where you going? 
SALIM First class, bhai. Where else? 
72   INT/ EXT. FIRST CLASS CARRIAGE. MORNING.                  72 
The ancient train is huffing slowly up an incline. A middle class Indian couple with their three children are sitting at a table, their breakfast spread before them. Into this domestic scene, unseen by them comes Jamal. Upside down and still outside the train, he is clearly being dangled by his ankles from the train roof. He gives a few, silent directional signs to Salim who manoeuvres him across, dips his hand into the open window, snatches a chapatti and signals franticly to be hoisted up. The family continue to eat, unperturbed. 
Then Jamal appears again. This time one of the children spots him. Despite Jamal giving her a friendly wave, she yelps. The father of the group grabs Jamal's hand which has just snatched a samosa. There is a tussle, Salim holding onto Jamal's legs, the father holding onto Jamal's arms and Jamal in the middle, shouting. Salim is losing the battle and his footing. He stumbles and the pair of them fall from the train, rolling and tumbling down an embankment in slow-motion. Interspersed with the seemingly endless tumble are images of Jamal and Salim on top of different trains- 
- huddled together against the freezing rain... 
- surfing the wind at the front of the train... 
- admiring the distant Himalaya.... 
JAMAL V/O We criss-crossed the country from Rajasthan to Calcutta. Every time we were thrown off we got back on again. This was our home for years. A home with wheels and a whistle. 
The final tumble as they crash onto flat ground. 
73   EXT. RAILWAY EMBANKMENT. DAY.                             73 
Groggily, Jamal sits up and groans. Somehow in the tumble, he has been transformed into a twelve year-old. And Salim a strong fourteen year-old. Through the haze of pain and dust, Jamal sees something glinting in the distance- something impossibly beautiful. 
JAMAL Salim? Is this heaven? 
SALIM You're not dead, Jamal. 
Jamal clears his head. Sees Salim picking himself up from the ground. But the apparition is still there. 
(CONTINUED) 
73   CONTINUED:                                                73 
JAMAL So what's that? 
SALIM Wow. 
They stare at the apparition. The unmistakable outline of the Taj Mahal rises from the horizon, pink in the morning sun. Nothing could be more beautiful. 
JAMAL Some hotel, huh? 
74   EXT. TAJ MAHAL. DAY.                                      74 
Jamal and Salim wander under the great dome of the Taj Mahal. Two tiny slum kids dwarfed by this massive monument to love. It is a moment of genuine wonderment for them. Then a tour guide bustles nearby, tourists flowing behind him. 
GUIDE ...there are five main elements to the Taj. The Darwaza, the main gateway, the Bageecha or garden, the Masjid or mosque, the Naqqar Khana, the rest house and the Rauza or mausoleum. If you would like to follow me, I will show you the ninety-nine names of Allah on Mumtaz's tomb. As before, please remove your shoes. 
Jamal follows the Guide and his entourage into the mausoleum. Salim meanwhile is studying the line of shoes. Tries a smart pair of women's court shoes, before slipping a foot into a nice, white sneaker. A smile crosses his face. His other foot quickly follows and he saunters away, all mock-innocence. 
75   EXT. TAJ MAHAL. DAY                                       75 
Jamal comes out of the mausoleum into the bright sunlight and looks around for Salim. No sign of him. Suddenly, a German couple approach. 
ADA Please, what time is the next tour? 
JAMAL Err- 
PETER - so much waiting around in this damned country. (CONTINUED) 
75   CONTINUED:                                                 75 
Jamal notices that he is standing next to a sign advertising guided tours of the Taj. 
A shout from the top of the lane and the boys scatter, bouncing the four wheels at speed down the lane. Jamal, the Indian driver and the two Americans return. They stop in front of the denuded car. 
CLARK Woah. What happened here? 
Suddenly the Indian driver is slapping Jamal ferociously around the head with one of his shoes. 
DRIVER I give you two tight slaps, mader chod! 
JAMAL I don't know! I didn't do it, did I...? Nothing to do with me...get off! 
But the beating continues, the driver kicking Jamal down onto the floor. The two Americans stare, uncertain what to do. 
ADELE Do something, Clark. 
CLARK Well, I- I dunno, I- 
Finally Clark intervenes, pulling the driver off Jamal. (CONTINUED) 
80   CONTINUED: (2)                                                80 
CLARK (CONT'D) Okay, okay, just cool it. You're insured, aren't you? Jesus Christ... 
Jamal sits up. He is bleeding from his nose and mouth. 
CLARK (CONT'D) You okay? 
JAMAL You wanted to see the `real India', Mister David. Here it is. 
ADELE Well, here's a bit of the real America, too, son. 
Adele pulls out his wallet and rummages for dollars. 
81   EXT. YAMUNA RIVER. NIGHT.                                     81 
A battered Jamal limps along the river bank towards the Taj. He stops, bathes his swollen face in the river. Then looks up. Strange lights appear to emanate from the base of the monument. And then strange sounds. 
82   EXT. TAJ MAHAL. NIGHT.                                        82 
Jamal climbs   a crumbling   wall and is confronted with an opera taking   place right   under the dome. Gluck's Orfeo ed Euridice.   Hundreds of   India's smartest professionals are watching   from banked   seating on a scaffolding frame. 
83   EXT. STANDS. NIGHT.                                           83 
Jamal and a couple of street kids slip under the scaffolding supporting the banked seats. The street kids are trying to reach the hand-bags of the women above them. 
BOY (hissing) Oi, Jamal! There's a woman with no panties on over here. 
Jamal reaches up and easily lifts a wallet from a man's trouser pocket. On stage, the actors start singing. Jamal seems to have forgotten the wallet and stares, mesmerised, at the stage. 
WOMAN Why don't you put it back and listen to the music? (CONTINUED) 
83   CONTINUED:                                                  83 
Jamal starts, makes to run, but the woman who spoke holds out a cigarette. A Canadian back-packer is sitting, staring at the singers. 
WOMAN (CONT'D) It's called Orfeo. Orpheus and Eurydice. Orpheus- that one there- is looking for his lover, Eurydice. She died, but he can't live without her. 
She hands him a cigarette. He puts the wallet back. She smiles at him and they both turn to the stage. 
WOMAN (CONT'D) The pain is so bad that he goes to the underworld- the place we go when we die- to try to get her back. 
JAMAL You can't do that. Can you? 
WOMAN (shrugging) You can in opera. 
JAMAL Does he find her? 
WOMAN Watch and see. 
Jamal watches as Orpheus sings one of the most beautiful pieces of music a human is likely to hear. Tears are running down Jamal's cheeks. 
84   EXT. YAMUNA RIVER. NIGHT.                                   84 
Salim, Shankar, Jamal and the Taj Gang are gathered around a campfire. All of them wear extraordinary foot- wear of one form or another, from elaborate high heels to walking boots five sizes too large. A home-made hooka pipe is being passed around the fire. The eyes of the children have long since stopped focussing. Salim is sporting a Mercedes Benz badge on a chain around his neck. Behind him, Jamal appears, his face swollen. He takes off his fake Guide's Badge and throws it in the fire. 
SALIM Woah! What are you- Jamal? 
JAMAL We have to go, Salim. 
SALIM Go? Go where? (CONTINUED) 
84   CONTINUED:                                                  84 
JAMAL Bombay. 
SALIM Don't be stupid. We're making good money here. 
JAMAL We should have gone a long time ago. 
Salim turns to Shankar with sudden understanding. 
SALIM Oh, God. Baby brother's in love. With a flat-chested hijra. 
JAMAL Latika was one of us. A musketeer. 
SALIM A musketeer...Grow up, Jamal. Look, how was I to know they'd beat you up. Here, you can have some of the cash. Come on... 
JAMAL I've got cash. 
He rips out a wad of dollar bills from his pocket. 
JAMAL I've heard of him. 
The Inspector kicks his chair. 
INSPECTOR Don't get clever or I'll get the electricity out again. 
JAMAL They didn't ask me that question. I don't know why. Ask them. 
The Inspector stares hard at Jamal. 
INSPECTOR Funny, you don't seem that interested in money. 
Then, Constable Srinivas stomps back into the office, sweat pouring from him. 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS Platform Seventeen- 
Has to consult his notebook. 
(CONTINUED) 
88   CONTINUED:                                                  88 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS (CONT'D) A statue of Frederick Stevens, architect and builder of Victoria Terminus in - 
INSPECTOR OF POLICE - yes, yes, Srinivas. The hundred dollar bill. 
89   EXT. BOMBAY. DAY.                                           89 
From a thousand feet in the sky, looking down on the limitless megatropolis of Mumbai. Half-built sky- scrapers, slums, factories, roads, trains. 
JAMAL V/O Bombay had turned into Mumbai. 
We descend, down until the lines of ants become people. 
JAMAL V/O (CONT'D) The orphanage had gone, the slum had gone, the people.... all gone. And everywhere was building, building, building. 
Descending even further, we pick out a construction site and then Jamal.... 
90   EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE. DAY.                                90 
..who is staring through a wire fence at the construction site. 
JAMAL V/O But I knew she was here. Somewhere she was here. 
He turns away, then something catches his eye. Underneath all the scraps of flyers and posters on a broken wall is a corner of something that Jamal recognises. He tears back a poster. Underneath, faded but recognisable is one of their beanbag graffiti advertisements. 
91   EXT. SLUM. NIGHT.                                           91 
Jamal asks a group of stall-holders on the slum main street. They shrug, aren't interested. The camera pulls up and up until Jamal is nothing but a dot wandering the maze of lanes, railways and highways, one among endless millions of people. 
JAMAL V/O Evenings, I searched. Days, I worked. 
92   EXT. HOTEL. DAY.                                            92 
Jamal wanders up to the rickshaw drivers parked outside the hotel. He stops and asks a question. The drivers shake their heads. Jamal continues up the steps towards a door, exhausted face and grubby clothes walking straight towards camera. He goes through the door and immediately.... 
93   INT. HOTEL. FOYER. DAY.                                     93 
....is, without breaking step in a slightly grubby white uniform. He walks across the echoing, marble floor of a struggling four-star hotel, goes through double doors.... 
94   INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY.                                   94 
...into a corridor that is devoid of carpet, paint- anything except a phone on the bare wall and a stool. The phone is ringing. Jamal sits on the stool and answers the phone. 
JAMAL Room service, good afternoon?... Yes, sir. Two chicken burgers, two fries, one cocoa-cola and one mango lassi and a large bottle of mineral water...Bisleri or Himalayan Spring, Sir?...Certainly, Sir. That will be with you in fifteen minutes, Sir. Thank you. Have a nice day. 
He hangs up and goes through another set of doors... 
95   INT. HOTEL KITCHENS. DAY.                                   95 
...to a cramped kitchen with definite hygiene problems. The cooks are playing carom on the table while under it Salim is dozing. 
JAMAL Two chicken burgers, coke, mango lassi and a bottle of Bisleri. 
Dozily, Salim gets up and takes a look behind one of the fridges. He chases out a chicken with a desultory kick and sorts through some empty mineral water bottles until he finds a Bisleri bottle. Salim fills the bottle of mineral water from the tap and begins delicately re- sealing the tamper-proof lid with super-glue. Jamal collects cutlery and starts laying out a tray. 
(CONTINUED) 
95   CONTINUED:                                                95 
JAMAL (CONT'D) I'm going to Chowpatti again, okay? Want to come? 
SALIM For God's sake. You got some disease? You force me back to this shit-hole, we leave our friends, a good life, loads of money- for this. Isn't that enough? 
JAMAL We came back to find her. 
SALIM No, you did, Jamal, not me. Me, I don't give a shit about her. Plenty of pussy in Bombay for Salim. Oh, yes, sir! You should come down the Cages on Saturday night instead of searching for your lost love. 
JAMAL I'm going to Chowpatti. 
SALIM (impersonating Ram) "I'm going to Chowpatti". There are nineteen million people in this city, Jamal. Forget her. She's history. 
JAMAL V/O But she wasn't. 
96   EXT. BANDRA BANDSTAND. DAY.                               96 
Jamal is dodging the traffic at a busy junction. He moves around the beggars who are working the cars. Then he hears singing. He looks around, suddenly panicked. It is a siren song drawing him across the road, not even noticing that he is narrowly run down by a couple of cars, to a traffic island underneath a flyover. He turns a corner and there is the singer, leaning up against one of the struts of the flyover. Arvind. Older now, just like Jamal, a fourteen year-old boy. But eye- less. Jamal freezes. He approaches Arvind and waits until he has finished singing. Despite his eyeless sockets, Arvind appears to know somebody is there. He turns and bows low, putting his hands together. 
ARVIND Namaste, Sahib. Any kindness you give will be repaid in heaven many times. 
JAMAL Just two minutes to talk to her. 
She takes the money, counts it. (CONTINUED) 
98    CONTINUED:                                                    98 
WOMAN Two minutes. 
She nods upwards. Salim and Jamal head up the dark, tiny staircase. The Woman picks up the phone on her desk. 
99    INT. LANDING. NIGHT.                                          99 
On the tiny landing, Salim and Jamal pull back a curtain to reveal a humping couple. They move on, past more women lying on their beds or blankly having sex, not in the least perturbed to be interrupted. They reach the end of the landing. From the other side of the door comes the filmi music. Jamal puts his eye to one of the gaps in the slatted door. Through it he can see glimpses of a girl dancing to the music. Latika; though not the rag-picker of before. Now fifteen, she is a beautiful young woman and dressed in a revealing, turquoise, silk sari. 
SALIM Is it her or not? 
He shoves Jamal out of the way and watches. 
SALIM (CONT'D) Shit, she's sexy, man.... 
Then the music stops, an effeminate man steps into the limited frame Salim can see and snaps a stick down hard on Latika's hand. 
DANCE TEACHER Smile! Flow, flow! You entice with the hands not make chapattis, you gawaar. Again. 
The man starts the music again and Latika's hands flow elegantly around her head. 
DANCE TEACHER (CONT'D) Lift your feet, you lump. Stop, stop! 
The stick is raised to hit her but Jamal opens the door. 
100   INT. BROTHEL. NIGHT.                                          100 
She can barely believe her eyes. 
LATIKA Jamal? 
The Dance Teacher turns. 
(CONTINUED) 
100   CONTINUED:                                             100 
DANCE TEACHER What the hell do you want? 
He switches off the music. 
JAMAL Come. Quick. 
But Latika remains fixed. 
DANCE TEACHER You silly little boys. Get out now while you can. 
JAMAL Come with us. 
Latika runs to Jamal. But she freezes as she looks at the doorway. Maman, Punnoose and the Woman from downstairs stand there. The skin around Punnoose's eye bears the blisters from the chloroform burn years ago. 
MAMAN Look who we have here, Punnoose. Hello again, Jamal. Salim. Never forget a face. Especially one that I own. 
PUNNOOSE Shall I take them to the marshes? 
MAMAN Whatever you like. Have fun. Just make sure that you dispose of them properly afterwards. No traces, thank you. 
He turns to Jamal. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) You really thought you could just walk in and take my prize away? Have you any idea how much this little virgin is worth, bhen chod? 
He fingers Latika's hair. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) Get them out of here. 
Punnoose and the Muscle walk towards Jamal. Maman turns to the Dance Teacher as they grab his arms. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) Please continue, Master-ji. 
The Dance Teacher puts the music back on. (CONTINUED) 
100   CONTINUED: (2)                                         100 
SALIM No. 
Suddenly, Salim is holding a pistol. 
SALIM (CONT'D) Leave him. Get over there. 
Punnoose and the Muscle slowly release Jamal and join Maman. 
MAMAN Let's not be foolish, Salim. Heavy, aren't they? 
Salim straightens up his gun arm. 
SALIM Money. 
MAMAN You can have money. Here. 
Maman gets out his wallet and throws all the money in it on the floor. 
MAMAN (CONT'D) Take it. Go. Disappear with your friend and we'll forget all about this. Okay? 
Salim collects up the money. 
102C   INT. TULIP STAR. HOTEL LOBBY. LATER.                    102C 
On top of the metal preparation counters, Salim and Jamal are fencing: Jamal with a fish slice and Salim with a large spoon. 
103    INT. HOTEL ROOM. NIGHT.                                  103 
An empty, dusty hotel suite. Jamal is on the phone. 
JAMAL 307 here. I want a bottle of Johnny Walker Red Label, beer, wine- 
LATIKA - chicken. 
JAMAL Ah! Chicken.... 
Jamal closes his eyes at the wonderful thought. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) What kind of chicken? 
LATIKA (also dreaming) Tikka Masala. With roti- 
SALIM Naan, chutney, dal- 
LATIKA - aloo gobi, rice- 
She stops. Change of mind. 
(CONTINUED) 
103   CONTINUED:                                              103 
LATIKA (CONT'D) Pop Tarts! 
JAMAL Hold the line, chutiye. Pop Tarts? 
LATIKA On the tv. The commercial. Everybody's happy when they have Pop Tarts. 
JAMAL Exactly! A bucket of Pop Tarts, chutiye. 
Jamal slams down the phone. 
104   INT. HOTEL ROOM. LATER.                                  104 
Latika is clearly in the shower. Jamal wanders in carrying an old pair of lunghi. Shouts through the door. 
JAMAL Found some lunghi! 
LATIKA V/O Stay there. Look away. 
The shower stops. 
JAMAL Atcha, atcha. 
LATIKA V/O I'll know if you're looking.... 
JAMAL I'm not! 
With a towel around her, Latika comes to the doorway where Jamal is holding out a the lunghi with his eyes tight shut. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Where's Salim? 
LATIKA Dunno. 
She watches this innocent a second with true fondness. 
LATIKA (CONT'D) You're a sweet boy, Jamal. 
(CONTINUED) 
104   CONTINUED:                                            104 
She takes the lunghi from his outstretched hand and disappears into the bathroom, slamming the door with a giggle. 
105   EXT. MUMBAI SLUM STREET. NIGHT.                          105 
Salim wanders the crowded streets of a slum. He stops uncertainly at a doorway where a group of men are lolling, smoking. Plucks up his courage. 
SALIM I'm looking for Javed-bhai. 
MAN Ja, mada chod. He's not looking for you. Ja! 
SALIM I need to see him. 
The group of men stir, irritated now. Salim begins to back away, then stops. Pulls the gun from behind his back. 
SALIM (CONT'D) I killed Maman. I'll kill you too. Easy. 
The group are frozen. 
JAVED You killed him? 
Javed is standing in the doorway. 
JAVED (CONT'D) My enemy's enemy is my friend, no? So, come in, friend. 
106   INT. HOTEL ROOM. LATER.                                  106 
Jamal and Latika lie on the bed, drunk, though still coherent. Latika is dressed in the Bell-Boy's jacket and the old lunghi. 
LATIKA Maman's gang will hunt us. You know that? 
INSPECTOR (eventually) Enlighten us Constable. 
CONSTABLE SRINIVAS Accessory to murder, Sir. 
The Inspector puts his hands in the air, palms up. Simple. 
INSPECTOR Only the finest minds in the Mumbai Police Force. 
Untroubled by irony, Srinivas looks extremely pleased. 
INSPECTOR (CONT'D) Go check the files, Constable. 
Srinivas goes out. 
INSPECTOR (CONT'D) You puzzle me, Slumdog. Admitting murder to avoid a charge of fraud is not exactly clever thinking. Now, why would you do that? 
Jamal shrugs. 
(CONTINUED) 
109   CONTINUED:                                            109 
JAMAL When somebody asks me a question, I tell them the answer. 
110   EXT. TULIP STAR. MORNING.                                110 
At the gate, a Security Guard is sitting in his chair. 
JAMAL Where are they? 
The Guard grunts. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Where did they go? 
A more impatient grunt from the Guard. He stands up, walks towards Jamal. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Please, Sir. Which way? 
SECURITY GUARD I don't know and I don't care. 
The Guard raises his stick and gives him a roar. Jamal backs away onto the street. The Guard slams the gate shut. Jamal looks despairingly up and down the street at the teeming traffic, the crowds. 
PREM V/O Ready for another question. 
JAMAL V/O Yes. I'm ready. 
111   OMITTED                                                  111 
112   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      112 
We are back in the Studio. 
PREM For two and a half million rupees. Ladies and Gentlemen. Cambridge Circus is in which UK City. Is it A) Oxford, B) Leeds, C) Cambridge, D) London. 
Jamal smiles. 
PREM (CONT'D) He's smiling. Why does that worry me? 
113   EXT. MUMBAI. DAY.                                        113 
Leaden skies. Torrential rain is hammering on the tin roofs of the slum. 
114   INT. SHACK. DAY.                                         114 
Eighteen year-old Jamal's eyes open. Now with the beginnings of a beard and moustache, Jamal wakes in a tiny shack just big enough for a mattress on the floor. He pulls on a shirt, lifts the mattress and takes out his trousers which have been pressing there all night, puts them over his shoulder, picks up his shoes and goes down a ladder. 
115   INT. SHACK. DAY.                                         115 
He descends into a room and two feet of water that is eddying around the ground floor of the shack. Wades out of the door into the narrow lane of the slum. 
116   EXT. SLUM. DAY.                                          116 
Jamal nods hello to a number of neighbours, also bare- legged, also with their shoes in hand. Together, they wade to higher ground, put on their trousers and shoes and trudge up to the main road. 
117   INT. CALL CENTRE. NIGHT.                                 117 
Ultra-modern, glass-windowed office. The words Cultural Studies are written on the white board. Jamal walks in with a tray of glasses of chi. He puts a glass down on the young, hip, Teacher's desk and heads out again. 
TEACHER Okay, guys, it's been a big week in UK. Kat is back. 
He holds up a copy of Radio Times showing Kat from East Enders smiling at them. A collective groan from the Trainees. 
BARDI She's already back. 
TEACHER Bardi...Jamal? 
JAMAL Oh. Well. She did come back, then she went away when Alfie split up with her and now she's back again. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
117   CONTINUED:                                             117 JAMAL (CONT'D) But it looks as if Alfie still fancies Mo after all, so- 
TEACHER - thank you, Jamal. Keep up, Bardi. The chi-wallah knows more than you. 
Bardi glares at Jamal. Jamal shrugs apologetically and goes out. 
TEACHER (CONT'D) Okay, it's been super-duper hot for UK this week, so there'll be a lot of chat about that- they love their weather- and there's the festival in Edinburgh- Edinburgh? 
He points at a young woman Trainee. 
NASREEN Scotland. Kilts, castles, err, haggis? Porridge, the Highlands, mountains. Ben- Ben Nevis? 
INSPECTOR Not that incredible. You'd just murdered somebody with a Colt 45, after all. 
JAMAL It was self-defence. 
INSPECTOR Let's call it manslaughter, then, shall we? 
126    INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                     126 
PREM Getting hot in here, isn't it? 
JAMAL (genuinely) Are you nervous? 
The audience laugh. Prem is momentarily flustered. 
PREM What? Am I nervous? You're the one who's in the hot seat, my friend. 
(CONTINUED) 
126   CONTINUED:                                             126 
JAMAL Oh. Yes. Sorry. 
More laughter. 
127   INT. GALLERY. NIGHT.                                     127 
DIRECTOR Bloody hell. He's got Prem on the run... 
128   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      128 
Music, lights. Prem presses his computer. 
PREM What sports do you play? 
JAMAL None. 
PREM None. Oh, dear, oh dear, oh dear. Not to worry, there's only ten million rupees at stake... Which cricketer has scored the most first class centuries in history. Was it A) Sachin Tendulkar, B) Ricky Ponting, C) Michael Slater, D) Jack Hobbs. 
Prem allows the question to sink in. 
PREM (CONT'D) You've got a cheque for five million rupees in your hands. You've still got two life-lines, Phone A Friend and 50/50. For ten million rupees: pay, play, or bail out. It's still an option. Remember, if you get the answer wrong, you will lose everything like that. 
He clicks his fingers. 
PREM (CONT'D) Are you sure you want to do this? 
129   EXT. CRICKET GROUND. DAY.                                129 
An Indian batsman hits a nicely-timed stroke, heads down the wicket for a single. Turns. The other batsman is taking a second run. 
(CONTINUED) 
129   CONTINUED:                                            129 
The Indian tries to halt the other batsman with a shout, then succumbs to the inevitable and charges down the wicket. A fielder hurls the ball at the stumps. The bails fly off. 
130   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                     130 
JAMAL I'll play. 
Tense laughter from the audience. Prem holds up the cheque. Jamal nods. Prem tears it up slowly. Allows the pieces to fall to the floor. 
PREM The dreams of so many. On the floor. 
131   EXT. TOWER BLOCK. DAY.                                  131 
Jamal is riding the construction lift to the top of a high building, still just a shell but buzzing with carpenters, bricklayers, cable-layers. The lift stops at the top. Jamal gets out. Looks around. He is miles up. Alone. 
SALIM Jamal! 
Jamal looks around. There is Salim standing on the edge of the building. He saunters over to Jamal, his arms outstretched in theatrical greeting. He is groomed, expensively dressed with the best mobile money can buy dangling from a gold chain around his neck. 
SALIM (CONT'D) God is good, bhai. God is good. 
He tries to embrace Jamal. With as much force as he can muster, Jamal punches him in the face. Salim takes it. Stands there. Wipes blood from his lip. Gets another punch. Then another and another, not even defending himself, until he is being beaten back by a raging Jamal towards the edge of the building. Finally, he tries to reason with Jamal 
SALIM (CONT'D) Maman's boys were after us. Had to skip. 
Jamal keeps on beating him back. 
JAMAL Liar. 
(CONTINUED) 
131    CONTINUED:                                             131 
SALIM Left a message at reception. Waited weeks for you in Nagpur. 
JAMAL There was no message at reception. 
SALIM Bhai, I left a message. 
Salim opens his arms, defenceless. It would take one, small push to send him over the edge. There is a moment, when Jamal might. He even has his hands on his chest. 
JAMAL I will never forgive you. 
SALIM I know. 
The fury in Jamal subsides minutely. Finally, he turns away with a roar of frustration. Salim hangs his head. 
Their heads are close, they might kiss. Then Latika turns away, stares out of the window. 
LATIKA (CONT'D) Aré wa, Jamal.... 
Jamal smiles hopefully at her. But there is sadness in her now. She takes her sunglasses off, rubs her eyes. There is a bruise there. 
JAMAL You've hurt your eye. 
LATIKA Why are you here? 
JAMAL To see you. 
LATIKA Well. You see me. 
She stands there, challenging. On the tv, somebody is winning money. 
JAMAL Why does everyone love this programme? 
(CONTINUED) 
138   CONTINUED:                                              138 
LATIKA It's the chance to escape, isn't it? Walk into another life. Doesn't everyone want that? 
JAMAL You have another life. A rich one. 
LATIKA Who'd have thought it possible? A slum dog, with all this. 
JAMAL Are you happy? 
LATIKA I have five star food, five star clothes. I sleep in a bed, not on the street. From where we come from, Jamal, that is happiness. 
JAMAL You don't look so happy with a black eye. 
LATIKA You turn up here out of nowhere, telling me I'm not happy: how dare you? 
Voices at the gate-house. 
LATIKA (CONT'D) God, Javed will kill you. Here. 
JAMAL Javed? You are with him? 
She throws him an apron. He gets it on just in time for Javed to walk in. Jamal turns away. 
JAVED First you want a dishwasher, now a bloody cook- 
LATIKA -I just thought- 
JAVED - chup. The cricket's on. 
Javed changes channel and dials on his mobile. 
JAVED (CONT'D) Why do you always watch that shit? Huh? I'm already a millionaire. (CONTINUED) 
138   CONTINUED: (2)                                        138 
He laughs at his own joke. Turns to Jamal. 
JAVED (CONT'D) Well, come on then, Cook. I'm hungry. Get me a sandwich. 
JAMAL Immediately, Sir. 
Javed stares at Jamal a moment, trying to place a face he vaguely recognises. Then the Bookie comes on the line and he turns back to the television. 
JAVED Atcha... 
Latika hurries around the kitchen getting out bread and condiments, whispering while Javed talks on the phone. 
JAMAL Come away with me. 
LATIKA Chutiyé. Away where? And live on what? What can you provide? What have you got, Jamal? 
JAMAL Love. 
JAVED (on the mobile) ..yeah. He's on eighty-five. I want four lakh on him making a century. What are you giving?...Okay, make it five lakh. 
Javed pours himself a glass of whisky, never taking his eyes from the television. 
TV COMMENTATOR We are watching history unfold today at the Wankhedé Stadium as Sachin Tendulkar carves his way towards another magnificent century and the record books. His thirty-eighth century- the most by any Indian cricketer ever... 
LATIKA Love. That will feed us, will it? 
JAMAL It won't buy you a new dishwasher, but it might make you happy. (CONTINUED) 
138   CONTINUED: (3)                                         138 
LATIKA Where have you been? Get in the real world, Jamal. 
JAMAL You and me. That is the real world. Come away with me. 
Latika snatches the sandwich from him and gives it to Javed. Goes back to Jamal, whispers under cover of putting condiments away. 
LATIKA You're crazy. 
JAMAL Salim will help us. 
LATIKA Salim? You still believe in Salim? Jamal...I'll be gone soon, anyway. Bombay's got too dangerous for- 
She indicates Javed. 
The clock reads five oh three. Jamal stands on the footbridge. Humanity washes around him. His eyes dart around, frightened to miss her. Checks the clock again. Six. The platform is almost deserted. He wanders away. 
142   INT. CORRIDOR. NIGHT.                                   142 
Prem wanders down the corridor followed by a Security Guard. Another Security Guard is waiting at the entrance to the toilet. Prem goes in, leaving the two Guards in the corridor. 
143   INT. CHHATRAPATI SHIVAJI TERMINUS. DAY.                 143 
Jamal stands on the footbridge gazing down at the hordes of commuters. Five o'clock, five fifteen, five thirty. Six. Jamal rests his head against the railings. 
144   INT. TOILET. NIGHT.                                     144 
Jamal is in one of the cubicles. Prem goes to the urinal. Unzips. 
PREM A guy from the slums becomes a millionaire overnight. You know the only other person who's done that? Me. I know what it's like. I know what you've been through. 
JAMAL O/S I'm not going to become a milionaire. I don't know the answer. (CONTINUED) 
144    CONTINUED:                                               144 
PREM (laughs) You've said that before, yaar. 
Prem finishes pissing. Goes over to the washbasins, runs the taps and washes his hands. 
JAMAL O/S No, I really don't. 
PREM What? You can't take the money and run now. You're on the edge of history, kid! 
JAMAL O/S I don't see what else I can do. 
PREM Maybe it is written, my friend. You're going to win this. Trust me, you're going to win. 
Prem leaves. Jamal flushes and comes out of the cubicle. Goes to the washbasins. In the mist on the mirror above the taps is written the letter "B". Jamal stares at it. Gradually it fades, leaving only the growing fury on his face staring back at him. 
145    INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      145 
Jamal stalks back onto the set. Sits down in his chair. Stares at Prem who looks unconcernedly back. 
TALKBACK V/O Twenty seconds. 
145A   INT. CHHATRAPATI SHIVAJI TERMINUS. DAY.                 145A 
The digital clocks show five fifteen. Shoving the descending river of people out of his way, the seventeen year-old Jamal is forging a path up steps that cross the platforms. He pushes to the middle of the footbridge and leans out on the side railings. He scans the sea of people, desperately. Then he sees her: the eighteen year-old Latika, heart-stoppingly beautiful, over the other side of the station. A world away. She is scanning the crowd, as wired as he is. 
JAMAL Latika! Latika! 
But though he is screaming her name, his voice is swallowed by the noise around him. Then he sees two thuggish-looking men also fighting a way towards her. 
(CONTINUED) 
145A   CONTINUED:                                           145A 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Latika! 
Frightened now, he fights his way down the steps, one figure against an army of white-robed people. He gets to the bottom of the steps, is making progress against the tide. But so are the two men. Jamal is now on the same platform. Shouts her name again. She turns with a smile. But the two Thugs leap through a train onto her platform. She sees them, starts running, is lost in the crowd. Jamal runs off along the platform after Latika. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Latika! Latika! 
By the time Jamal has fought himself to where Latika was- she is gone. He whirls around, mad with frustration. 
JAMAL (CONT'D) Latika! Latika! 
146    OMITTED                                                  146 
147    EXT. CHHATRAPATI SHIVAJI TERMINUS. DAY.                  147 
Latika is jumping the tracks, crossing in front of trains. But the Thugs are gaining on her. He brings her down and drags her across to Javed's waiting Mercedes. Salim is standing by the car. Jamal pushes through the crowds just in time to see Salim bundling her into the car. 
JAMAL Salim! 
Salim spits disgustedly on the ground. Gets in. Latika twists her head to see Jamal as the car skids off. Jamal screams with hopeless fury. 
148    INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      148 
TALKBACK V/O Fifteen seconds. 
Jamal and Prem stare at each other. Prem smiles. 
PREM Do the right thing and in approximately three minutes you will be as famous as me. 
TALKBACK V/O Ten seconds. 
(CONTINUED) 
148   CONTINUED:                                             148 
PREM And as rich as me. 
TALKBACK V/O Five seconds. 
PREM Almost. 
TALKBACK V/O Four, three... 
PREM From rags to Raja. It's your destiny. 
TALKBACK V/O ...we're on. 
Applause from the audience. 
JAMAL I'd like to phone a friend. 
PREM We're going to the wire, Ladies and Gentlemen, we are going to the wire. The final Life-line. Here we go.... 
181   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      181 
Prem presses his computer. Ominous rumble of drums. The lights dim. A phone can be heard ringing, the amplified sound echoing around the studio. 
PREM It's ringing. 
The phone continues to ring. 
182   INT. ROADSIDE SHACK. NIGHT.                              182 
Latika is staring at the television. Then an electric current seems to shoot through her and she is running, dodging the static traffic, street vendors, the odd cow, heading for her abandoned car. Hooting horns, shouting drivers. The phone rings on... 
183   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                      183 
And on... 
PREM Doesn't look as if your friend is in, Jamal. Who is it? 
JAMAL My brother's number, but- 
PREM - the sort of brother who'd go for a walk on the twenty million rupee question? 
JAMAL It's the only number I know. 
184   INT. CAR. NIGHT.                                            184 
On the passenger seat of Latika's car, Salim's phone continues to ring... 
185   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                         185 
...and ring. 
PREM You're on your own, Jamal. 
Prem looks up at the gallery. The Director shakes his head, mimes cutting his throat. 
186   INT. CAR. NIGHT.                                            186 
Latika wrestles the door open, grabs the phone. 
187   INT. STUDIO. NIGHT.                                         187 
Prem opens his mouth to speak. Then, out of the darkness of the studio, 
LATIKA V/O Hello? 
A gasp from the audience. 
LATIKA V/O (CONT'D) Hello? Jamal? 
PREM Wow! That's cutting it fine. I'm guessing this isn't your brother. This is- 
LATIKA V/O My name is Latika. 
The first real smile of Jamal's adult life. 
188   EXT. STUDIO. BACKSTAGE. NIGHT.                              188 
A small smile spreads across the Inspector's face. 
INSPECTOR That's why he's on the show. 
He picks up his hat and hastens out of the room. 
189   INT. JAVED'S SAFE-HOUSE. NIGHT.                           189 
Javed pulls the Bar Girl from him, stares open-mouthed at the television. 
JAVED What the bloody-? 
He pushes the girl off him. Gets to his feet. 
JAVED (CONT'D) Latika! Salim! 
190   INT. STUDIO/ INT. ROADSIDE SHACK. NIGHT.                  190 
PREM Okay! So, Latika, you want to hear the question one more time? And let's be clear about this. Twenty million rupees ride on your answer. You have thirty seconds. Jamal, please read out the question to Latika. 
JAMAL Is that really you? 
LATIKA V/O Yes. 
PREM The question, Jamal. 
JAMAL In Alexandre Dumas' book, The Three Musketeers, two of the musketeers are called Athos and Porthos. What was the name of the third musketeer. Was it A) Aramis, B) Cardinal Richelieu, C) D'Artagnan, D) Planchet. 
Silence. The electronic clock ticks loudly. 
PREM Fifteen seconds. 
JAMAL Where are you? 
LATIKA V/O I'm- I'm safe. 
PREM Ten seconds. So, Latika, what do you think? 
