CUT TO: 
INT. POOL HALL -- MORNING 
Dupree chalks his cue, positions for a shot. 
DUPREE No? (off dull stares from Deeks and Elmore) Then you've both been living under the same rock, 'cuz these cocksuckers are infamous. Three brothers, same skank mom, different deadbeat dads, used for that suicide-kamikaze style shit. You heard about that huge shoot- out in Cleveland? 
DEEKS Is that the club that got wiped out a couple months back? 
ELMORE What happened? 
DUPREE The Teamsters had a reform measure going to ballot that didn't sit too well with the local syndicate. Night of the polling, big black-tie to-do downtown and the Tremor Brothers crash the party. Literally. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. DINNER CLUB -- NIGHT 
THE TREMOR BROTHERS pilot a Dodge Barracuda right through the front window with wrecking ball bravado. Bodies scatter as the Tremors deploy from the car in full body kevlar, doing doomsday on the club. One of them fires up a chainsaw, chewing into the panicked crowd. Bodyguards blast back, but bullets play like spitballs against the Tremor's body armor. 
DUPREE (V.O.) Donald McGarey, the local union rep, is the mark. The Tremors go ripshit riot on the whole club, seven people dead, twenty-eight wounded. Just to get to this one guy. 
Shotguns roar-- blast spreads obliterate-- a shitstorm of blood, spilled booze and busted glass-- 
DUPREE (CONT'D) --And they get it about as good as they give it. In the melee, one of the brothers catches blowback from a jammed piece and is temporarily blinded, the other takes bullets to the lower back and can't walk. The third gets popped in the neck and passes out. McGarey gets out of the club alive...and not much further... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DINNER CLUB -- PARKING LOT -- NIGHT 
The blind Tremor, walking wounded, piggybacking his brother with the bum back, dragging the other by the scruff of his neck, unconscious across the concrete. Police sirens squeal. McGarey, the union guy, hairpiece hanging by a thread, crawling toward his car. The piggyback Tremor brother reaches into his blind brother's coat, grabs a revolver and unloads. 
Long live the teamsters...Not tonight. 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. POOL HALL 
Dupree chalks his cue. 
DUPREE They're speed freaks, neo-nazi's. Sworn to the swastika, supposedly read and recite "Mein Kampf" like Mother Goose...And these motherfuckers can go megaton at the drop of a hat. 
SYKES (V.O.) What's the name again? 
INT. DINER -- NIGHT 
Wyman, Sykes and Watters, back at the greasy spoon. 
WYMAN "Soot, Lazlo Soot." Lotta folks want this white boy clapped. Soot could be workin' for one 'em. 
EXT. STREET -- DAY 
Crammed pedestrian crossing, noon hour a trio of SUITS converse, shrouded by bodyguards. 
WYMAN (V.O.) Nobody really certain where he come from... 
The party proceeds through the crosswalk, approaching them is a dark-suited man, expressionless, hands in his pockets. Others move past; a woman with shopping bags, a skateboard punk, a geriatric dog-walker and a man, full paralysis, mouth- op wheelchair, "My Left Foot" palsy. 
WYMAN (CONT'D) ...and when he moves on somebody, they the last ones t'see it comin'-- 
The bodyguards perk up, sensing something. Dark-Suit, removing his hands from his pockets-- cellphone...Wrong guy. 
The crippled cat, throwing a quilt off his lap, contorted face vanishing, two Uzi machine-pistols up, safeties off, triggers pulled-- BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP! 
The bodyguards get caught napping-- bullets blaze point blank. The three suits collapse. The phony invalid empties both guns, hops up from the wheelchair, hooks a passing truck and flees the scene...that, was LAZLO SOOT. 
DUPREE (V.O.) So what do you think? 
INT. POOL HALL -- BAR 
The boys have retired to the bar for a round of dollar drafts. 
ELMORE I think it's idiotic to continue this conversation. (turns, to Deeks) We're ex-cops which means we weren't great cops or even good ones. 
DEEKS Paying bills with bullshit casino jobs, sitting watch on slot machines. 
ELMORE Which was a great gig until we we walked in here and started drinking. 
DUPREE The bond on Israel expires in eighteen hours, after that, it's a jump ball. Our window is now. 
DEEKS Who posted his bail? 
Dupree pats himself down, searching for his cigs. 
DUPREE His law firm, same one that hired me. Israel walked out after he made bail and nobody's seen him since. 
ELMORE Jack, if the rumors hold and Israel is really the great white whale of snitches, then the mob is looking to put all kinds of bullets into his ass and pour some serious psychotics into the mix to do just that. So what real incentive is there to track him on something as small-time as a skip trace, when it's putting you and yours in the path of severe pain and suffering and an almost certain prelude to doom. 
MAN ...he's here now... 
Sparazza nods. The man exits. After a moment, the door opens again...and another MAN enters, walking slowly toward Sparazza's bedside. He sets down his luggage, a black leather valise. The travel tags originate in Stockholm: 
The Swede has arrived. 
FADE TO BLACK 
FADE UP ON: 
Soaring across the pristine deep blue waters of Lake Tahoe. Rising, revealing the gaudy, mirrored glass tower of the NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO. We slowly DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO -- MORNING 
BUDDY ISRAEL, bathrobe, boxers, bags under his eyes. He absently shuffles cards, pulling aces as if by touch, telepathy. He gazes out at the snow-packed peaks. Behind him; post-bacchanalia...the ugly morning after. Prostitutes, passed out cold in a tangle of crotchless panties and stiletto heels, lying amongst smashed vodka bottles and ashtrays, coke-covered tabletops and tipped room service trays. - 
Israel, sober now...contemptuous of it all. He starts walking around them the way you would casualties on a battlefield. His bathrobe brushes over, terrycloth catching one of the hooker's wigs, tugging it free. Israel looks down, zooming in on her scalp, sees dandruff and scars, gags disgust and disdain. He steps, the wigs pulls. He stops and slips the bathrobe off, letting it fall rather than pull her wig the rest of the way off and ruin what illusion remains. 
He shuffles, begins dropping Aces on their bodies like dead enemy soldiers. One of his bodyguards enters; a bulging, slow-witted, ex-bodybuilder by the name of HUGO CROOP. 
ISRAEL D'you talk to'm? 
HUGO (fetching Mylanta from the fridge) I got his machine. 
A beat. Israel fidgets, twitches, rubs coke residue from his nose and over his gumline 
ISRAEL What'd you say? 
HUGO (gulping Mylanta) I said I got his machine. 
ISRAEL No, what did you say on the machine? 
HUGO I left him a message. 
ISRAEL I know you left him a message. What did you say! 
Hugo looks up, seems confused. Moments pass. Israel, the patience of a gorilla, crammed into a canary cage. 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) Jesus Hugo! (MORE) 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) How is it that you can turn a simple conversation into a fucking hedge maze!? This is zero degree of difficulty man! 
HUGO Okay. 
ISRAEL Then why are you still looking at me like I'm asking for the square root of something! What did you say!? 
Hugo, still unsure, speaks in spite of it. 
HUGO I said that we were returning his call and you were real concerned, because he sounded real concerned. 
ISRAEL Look at that, we didn't have to fill up the whole blackboard after all. Now, do you know anything about that? 
Israel wrist-flicks a playing card, it embeds a sofa cushion like a ninja throwing star, right next to a beige coat. 
HUGO About what? 
ISRAEL Look at the collar on that coat... 
Hugo, wary, walking over, inspecting the coat from a distance. 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) What's that look like, that stain? 
Hugo edges closer, looks down at the coat, squints. 
HUGO I dunno...Cinnamon roll? 
ISRAEL Cinnamon roll? No, good guess though. No, Hugo that looks like jizz... (reshuffles, stares) And I'm no forensic expert mind you, but that looks like some fuckhead shot their load on a twelve-thousand dollar calf's skin jacket. The twist? It's My twelve thousand dollar, calf's skin jacket. (beat, then) So y'got semen, human ejaculate-- (MORE) 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) (checks watch) --that's been allowed to soak in for what, six, seven hours now? Work it's way into the fabric-fuck'n fibers-- and while you may never see it in a Tide commercial, I think it still safely qualifies as a "tough, deep down stain." 
Hugo takes another pull off the Mylanta bottle, moving slowly, like most morons do, avoiding eye contact at all cost. 
HUGO I could have it sent out... 
ISRAEL ...to what? Incinerate? 'Cuz I'm almost dead certain there's not a fucking laundry detergent or dry cleaning process known to man that can ever return that jacket to its former glory! Some shit, suffice it to say, just don't wash out. (beat, cooling down) Now, the money question...To whom does that stain belong? 
Hugo, gameface falling apart...Israel prods him. 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) C'mon, somebody was banging one of these skanks, sans rubber-- (beat, assesses girls) -which is terrifying in its own right- pulled out, let 'er rip and ruined the last gift my mother gave me before she died. (snatching up coat) The way I see it, it's the same as if she was dug up, three months dead and it was shot right on her rotting corpse, 'cuz that's how it defiled this feels! 
Hugo. Long pause.   Big dumb blush. 
HUGO Do you want me to say I did it? 
ISRAEL I was kinda hoping, yeah. 
HUGO Do you want me to say I'm sorry? 
PADICHE (leaning closer) "Pushy?" 
Watters, shaking her head, correcting him. 
WATTERS Pussy. 
The old man blanches, doesn't quite understand the-- 
PADICHE --Uh... 
Another beat. The girls let him dangle. Watters, lewd sneer, looks almost lustfully at Sykes as she says the following; 
WATTERS Israel likes pussy... 
Padiche, recovering, nodding, nervous. 
PADICHE ...Oh...uh-huh, yeah-- 
Sykes squirms under Watters lascivious gaze, but manages: 
SYKES And we like that he likes... 
Yet another beat.    Padiche, wanting desperately to contribute. 
PADICHE ...Pussy? 
SYKES Correct. 
Padiche, big nod going from one girl to the other, he-get's- it-but-not-really. 
PADICHE ...Fabulous. 
He extends his hand.   WE TRACK IT ACROSS IN C.U. as it meets with a male hand. 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL 
INT. HOTEL ROOM -- BLACKJACK INN -- MORNING 
Dupree and Deeks shaking hands with RUPERT "RIP" REED, mid- forties, showbiz-slash-mob attorney, low man on the totem at the Las Vegas based legal firm of "Culpepper Brody & Reed" 
REED Yeah, Jack, alright...hey-- (shakes Deeks' hand) Nice t'meet you. Rip Reed. 
DEEKS Pete. 
REED Okay, good, good, c'mon, c'min. 
Reed and Dupree shake.   Reed glances out in the hall before closing the door. 
REED (CONTD) (CONT'D) (to Dupree) Where's your third? This was a troika, no? 
Dupree, finding a seat, almost under his breath. 
DUPREE He's...fuckin'...he's comin'... 
As Elmore appears, Reed almost closes the door on him-- 
REED (extending hand) Hey, hey how r'ya, Rip Reed. 
ELMORE Hollis.   Elmore. 
They shake. Dupree shoots a look at Elmore, not pleased. Elmore, pissy, leans against the wall, arms crossed. 
Reed, wound out, worn thin, half drunk-- his bedspread is papered with writs, summons, notaries, etc: Everything to make Buddy Israel's return to custody legally binding. He sits on the edge of the bed, reaching for a pack of smokes on the nightstand, finding a half empty glass of scotch. 
REED (to Deeks) So Jack tells me you're both ex-cops? 
DEEKS Yeah, that's right. 
DUPREE They worked as swingmen for the Vegas Vice squad-- (to Deeks) What? Five, six years? 
Reed, digging a cigarette out of his pocket. 
REED Man the stories you guys must tell. I grew up soft myself, private schools, little blazers, you "Talked it out" nobody threw punches, t'this day, never been hit with a fist, Imagine that, huh? (MORE) 
REED (CONT'D) Pretty much a panty-waste, trembling little faggot-fairy when I smell trouble-- and I don't say this to be self-deprecating, I just don't have much of an opinion about myself, I mean, shit, I wish I was a lot more like you guys, barfighters, big swinging dicks, gettin' it done. Sadly. (lifts his shirt, exposes torso flab) This is it. It's...disgusting. (with a look skyward) Thanks God, dogpile a piss-poor physique with an small cock and hereditary alcoholism! 'preciate it! (beat, to Dupree) Okay, I'm babbling, I do this when I drink, forgive the rants, let's get at it here. This wanted felon fucking prick bastard Buddy Israel and the nearly one million dollar bail bond. 
Dupree smiles, pats Reed on the shoulder, don't-sweat-this... 
DUPREE Rip, my right hand to God, we're gonna go in and recover this asshole and everybody's gonna leave the theater grinning. Trust me. 
REED That confidence translates bro, seriously, it does! Out-STANDING! 
Reed, white-boy high-five, excruciatingly un-hip. Deeks and Elmore literally have to look away. Dupree can barely bear it. 
REED (CONT'D) I'm a lawyer, y'know, I need to hear these things, little boosts, helps allay my fears, I pass that piece of mind along to my partners. (beat, then) Alright, so, couple primers for you guys, maybe things we might've looked past that you should know about...His hangers-on, these idiots Israel runs with, they're all "packing heat" "strapped" whatever the phrase is. Point two, Israel likes hookers, so you might run into a harem up there. Point three: He binges between a six- to-seven thousand dollar a day cocaine habit that nobody knows about, so he (MORE) 
REED (CONT'D) and those hookers, will most likely be high. He also drinks, self- medicates, the whole cliche, y'know? The strung out hasbeen jerkoff snitch drunk. The seven-layer loser. (beat, exhales) I'm praying he puts up a fight, please, please, please, rape him if possible, I'll-pay-the-extra-whatever-- 
--A Plymouth Barracuda passes by, brakes hard, reverses. The trio stop talking, look over...and then their lives end. Bad intentions blaze from the driver's side, machine-gun bursts-- Dupree is hit flush, dead on his feet, his dying thought, cut comically short; "I had that car in high scho-- 
Deeks, shredded where he stands, his body absorbing a fusillade of rounds traveling at twice the speed of sound. One creases Elmore's skull, another blows out Deeks' back, fragmenting, claiming three fingers from Elmore's left hand. The three of them fall in weird, waterlogged flops, no dying breaths, no death rattles, just lights out...just like that. 
Several seconds pass. Then the car door opens and The Tremor Brothers, like circus clowns, clamber out in a cloud of gun and reefer smoke. LESTER TREMOR, the dandruff-caked, pockmarked middle brother is the first out. He shakes off the cold, yawning, stretching, revealing all manner of tattoo. 
The Tremors' youngest brother, the Baby-Huey sized JEEVES TREMOR bumbles out, pulling at his crotch. He unzips & rips, baptizing the Cuda's tire with a truly prodigious piss. DARWIN TREMOR climbs from the car, the eldest brother, straw boss, brains of the outfit. He looks down at the dead men, seems saddened by their state. Some remorse maybe? Maybe so. 
JEEVES TREMOR (still pissing) Luvin' that, rat-tat-tat-tat, clean as a nun's snatch on Kristal Nacht! 
LESTER TREMOR (stops singing) Shut up fuckass, them spirits ain't vacated yet, s'keep quiet. 
JEEVES TREMOR Them spirts can kiss my Chinese ass. 
LESTER TREMOR ...YOU AIN'T NO CHINESE! 
This exchange prompts Jeeves to turn and urinate on Lester. Lester squeals war cry, launching a wild windmill barrage on his behemoth little brother. Jeeves ignores the hydrant- like urine stream soaking them both and starts swinging back. 
Darwin kneels down over the dead Jack Dupree, taking Jack's face in his hand and squeezing back and forth, adding his own words in what amounts to a freakish ventriloquist act. 
DUPREE (DEAD) ...I forgive you Darwin. 
DARWIN TREMOR Shoot, I appreciate that man. 
DUPREE If I needed your I.D. and your car and me and my brothers were wanted by the law, I woulda killed you to get 'em too. 
DARWIN TREMOR You woulda? 
DUPREE Oh hell yeah. We's just in the wrong place at the wrong time. So don't feel so bad dude. 
DARWIN TREMOR Damn...alright then. 
DUPREE I don't mind now anyway. (MORE) 
DUPREE (CONT'D) You know, up here in Heaven, it's beautiful. Way better than fuckin' Hawaii or any place like that. 
Darwin's eyes begin to well, the tears coming slowly. In the background, Lester and Jeeves beat e ach other ruthlessly. 
DARWIN TREMOR Really? 
DUPREE I'm glad I'm here. I love it. I'm gonna get laid by some fine ass angels and then go hang out with Jesus and them. 
Darwin wipes his eyes. 
DARWIN TREMOR Man, that's great. 
DUPREE I got it made in the shade Amigo. Hey, I'll see you up here some day, don't worry. 
DARWIN TREMOR You think so? 
Darwin uses his thumb and forefinger to make it appear as though Dupree we're smiling up at him. 
DUPREE I know so. 
Darwin smiles back down   at the corpse, wiping his nose on his sleeve. He reaches    down and pulls out Dupree's wallet. He spots the bondsman's   license, eyeballs the bail papers: He sees the name ROBERT   ISRAEL in bold type. Puts it together. 
DARWIN TREMOR Damn Jack...you was after the same sacka shit as us...Small world. 
Darwin continues the pat down, pauses, pulls the envelope with fifty grand inside, fingers fresh bills. With his free hand he manipulates Dupree's dead mouth one last time. 
DUPREE Don't tell your asshole brothers you know about it, that money is for you old boy. 
Darwin, a nod of acknowledgement for the dead Dupree. 
DARWIN TREMOR I appreciate that pard...I wish I coulda been a better friend. 
Darwin stands, His eyes move to the guard's uniforms, still laid out across the trunk...he looks over at his two brothers, Jeeves now with a Lenny-like hammerlock on Lester's head. 
DARWIN TREMOR (CONTD) (CONT'D) Alright enough grabassin' goddamit! We need t'get over t'that hotel. 
WATTERS (V.O.) We're already here baby. 
CUT TO: 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- LOBBY -- MORNING 
Watters is once again on her cellphone to Lorenzo. 
WYMAN (O.S.) (on the phone) So everything's cool then? 
WATTERS We sat down with Padiche, he tried to get some details which we wasn't gonna give up, but it's all good. We goin' check Sis in first, 'fore I check in across the street. 
Sykes arrives at the reception counter when the elevators open-- and Israel's Hookers, post-brawl bruised, bloodied and barefoot, come staggering out. 
They slur insults at the security team, broken heels slung over their shoulders, wigs misaligned, miniskirts mangled. Sykes trades looks with Watters as if assessing something, nodding almost imperceptibly to one another. Watters then winks, something sexual there...it gives Sykes the shivers. 
The Hookers are surrounded by a horde of hotel staff and summarily whisked away. Watters joins Sykes. The WOMAN behind the counter checking Sykes in, looks up to see Watters. 
ISRAEL They're gonna give on this in the next ten seconds or the deal's off! 
MECKLEN (O.S.) I dunno what to say to you sweetheart, it is what it is. 
ISRAEL Bullshit it is. I said, about as loud as I could say it, "no jail time for my guys." 
CUT TO: 
INT. FOUR SEASONS HOTEL -- WASHINGTON D.C. -- DAY 
Morris Mecklen, sleepless, sweat rings blossoming armpit to waist. He picks at the plate of room service food in front of him. A group of Feds and Fed lawyers linger in the b.g. 
MECKLEN And they're not going give there pally. They're bricking us on that particular issue. 
Mecklen glances back over his shoulder, lowering his voice. 
MECKLEN (CONTD) (CONT'D) Baby, I've been co-habitating with these people for the past thirty odd hours and in so doing, have stared into the face of hell. These are the premier prick cocksuckers of all time and I feel beaten by them, I feel bloodied-- 
ISRAEL --and you're gonna feel altogether fucked, by me, if you don't handle this. I'm the one, does the face plant, this falls apart, not you. 
Buddy's rubs his chest-- grimacing-- he lays back on the piano, hoists a vial of blow, presses a nostril, does a bump. 
MECKLEN (V.O.) And I vibe that kiddo, I do indeed, but it's one'a those fait accompli things, you have to-- 
ISRAEL I don't have to do shit! Which includes cooperating any further with these motherfuckers until I get what I want! (MORE) 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) (beat, considers, looks over at Hugo) Alright, fuck it, if we gotta hand 'em somebody from our end and they're being hard-ons about it-- make it Hugo, him I don't mind. He needs that regimented thing that prison provides-- 
MECKLEN --Buddy, it's bigger than that, they want 'em all, Ivy, Beanie-- 
ISRAEL --this isn't a swap meet Morrey, they're getting Sparazza and the west coast syndicate, giftwrapped, now if that's not good enough-- 
The Feds are signaling Mecklen back into the main room. 
MECKLEN --Listen kid, let's not antagonize this any more. I got 'em backed down on the book and t.v. deals. They're agreeing to give you all the after tax profits, so you can come away with some chits and live comfortably. If we push this, they'll revoke your protective status, which nullifies any agreement you got with the government...Now that's mate and checkmate kiddo and once that happens, the shit'll start falling down around your ears, real fast. 
Buddy's head teeters back, bangs on the keys, sour chords, thinking...thinking...He takes the deck, firing the cards up in a perfect column above his head, snatching one random out of the air with his right. He turns it over, looks...Joker. 
ISRAEL Alright...do it. 
In the shadows at the far end of the room, tucked into the midday shadows, Ivy listens as his boss betrays them all... 
CARRUTHERS (V.O.) Israel just rolled. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. TAHOE SKILLET" RESTAURANT -- MORNING 
The Feds, heading toward their car, Carruthers snaps his cellphone shut. 
MESSNER He's giving them up? 
CARRUTHERS All of 'em. His entire entourage. I think we should move. 
MESSNER Did the Justice lawyers sign off? 
CARRUTHERS That's happening in about ten minutes. Israel's at optimum risk of flight right now, so we can't wait. 
They reach their car. 
MESSNER What about the sheriff's task force? 
CARRUTHERS Have them mobilized. I'll phone security and have the elevators locked down and stairwells secured. We need to keep Israel sequestered in that penthouse. 
SECURITY SUPERVISOR (V.O.) No, I'm sorry, the penthouse is currently under construction. 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- SECURITY ROOM -- DAY 
S.A. Gerald Diego, alias Pasquale Acosta, speaking   with "Bill" SECURITY SUPERVISOR for the Nomad. Banks of video    monitors surround them, displaying the various gaming areas   and VIP floors...two of the screens are completely blacked   out. 
ACOSTA (to Bill) Can I speak to you privately? 
The Supervisor nods, dismisses his staff, calls after one. 
SECURITY SUPERVISOR Gary, let's get our personnel up in the catwalk over twelve, that stickman has been acting odd and I don't like the rolls that table has been getting. 
EMPLOYEE Got it. 
Acosta waits for the door to close, leaving only himself and the supervisor in the room. 
ACOSTA It's gotta be tough keeping an eye on everything. 
SECURITY SUPERVISOR And everybody, all the time. Yeah, it's a chore. 
Acosta laughs, keeps it loose. 
ACOSTA So, Bill, if I understand this right, you currently have your penthouse floor under construction? 
Acosta, deadpan. 
ACOSTA Bill-- (out of respect) Willliam... (pause) We're all dying... 
Bill the supervisor almost smiles as he breathes his last breath...Acosta checks for a pulse, then drags his body toward a service closet. As he passes one of the video monitors... 
...WE SEE ON-SCREEN: The Employee entrance, grave and swing shifts on their way out, day shift on it's way in. Mixed in with this personnel rotation, each doing his inconspicuous best...The Brothers Tremor. 
CUT TO: 
INT. EMPLOYEE ENTRANCE -- DAY 
Darwin, Lester and Jeeves, clad in full security attire, standing apart so as not to appear together, heads down, hands shoved into their pockets. 
Darwin bird-dogs both his brothers, monitoring their movement, using hand signals and some bizarre inbred semaphore to communicate with them. They pass through and punch in, signing time sheets. The surrounding security staff oblivious to the new faces. The brothers enter the lower floors, moving through the hotel's fitness center and indoor pool. 
A kid does a cannonball as they pass as we... 
CUT TO: 
A clouded bog-- coming to-- consciousness, then, retching, gagged gasps, throat ablaze with bile, liquid clearing convulsed lungs, breath in burning spasms-- not enough air. 
EXT. LAKE --DAY 
Elmore sits up in the sub-zero shallows of Lake Tahoe with a start, stripped naked, shaking uncontrollably, his skin a deep bruised blue. Dull pain quickly defines-- pinpoints, bores in, bone deep...Death can't hurt this much. 
He gets his breathing under control, the onset of hypothermia turning his fingertips black-- his left hand, lighter three digits-- he looks, comprehension sparks but can't catch-- he stares impassively at the ragged space, for the moment, he doesn't seem to mind their absence. He gropes the side of his head, bullet-graze, blood congealed by the cold, the concussion he suffered has left a massive migraine behind. 
He crawls from the water, muscles cramping, knotting up. He reaches the sand, unable to pull himself up any further. He turns back, sees the bodies of Deeks and Dupree, face down, the lazy lake tide gently lifting and lowering them... 
MESSNER (V.O.) Double homicide, gunshot vics, both of 'em dumped in the lake. That's where the Sheriff's task force is. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CAR -- DAY 
Carruthers and Messner, hectic, speeding through the south shore of Lake Tahoe, cellphones pinned to their ears. 
MESSNER (back into his phone) Deputy, have you made any ID's? 
CARRUTHERS (cups phone, to Messner) Get a coroner's estimate too. (back into his cell) --Miss, I've been transferred and I was disconnected. No one is answering and I need someone from security to pick up that line. It's urgent. 
Messner, nodding as he listens. 
MESSNER Dep-- Deputy, I'm going to put you on speaker, I have Agent Carruthers in the car with me. (beat to Carruthers) You need to hear this. 
Messner clicks over, the deputies voice fills the car. 
SHERIFF DEPUTY --nd have a pending ID on a Jack Dupree, appears to be a bondsman out of Las Vegas. He was just rolled and printed by our medical examiner. 
Messner and Carruthers trade looks. 
CARRUTHERS Was there anything recovered? 
SHERIFF DEPUTY (O.S.) We found a handwritten receipt in his pocket for what looks like uniform rentals. The name and phone number of the rental house wasn't listed, 
MESSNER What kind of uniforms? 
SHERIFF DEPUTY (O.S.) Receipt wasn't specific, the uniforms were just listed as maroon in color. 
Carruthers mashes the floorboard, brakes smoke, power swerve, slicing the rented Taurus across four lanes of traffic. 
MESSNER Alright, deputy, we'll be there as soon as possible, until we arrive, I need you to limit physical access and restrict movement to and from the crime scene. Clear? 
Messner clicks off. 
CARRUTHERS Maroon uniforms? 
MESSNER Yeah. Have you been able to get through to the Nomad's security? 
CARRUTHERS No. (beat, decision) I'm going over there. You take the car from there, get out to the lake. 
Carruthers pushes 110mph, barreling toward the Nomad, blowing through traffic-- Both men pull out IFB/earpiece apparatus, plugging in, checking their signals. 
MESSNER You going up to the Penthouse alone? 
Carruthers pulls a .45 from his holster, driving with his knees now, he jacks the slide, checks for a chambered round. 
CARRUTHERS Yeah. 
The slide releases-- 
SYKES (V.O.) That's a bad move. 
CUT TO: 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL SUITE -- DAY 
Sykes, grabbing her bag, dropping spare clips inside and starting for the door. 
SYKES ...I'm on my way out, I'm just gonna hang in the hallway until they start up in the elevators. 
Watters loads a red-tipped round into the breach of the Fifty. 
WATTERS Just get in there and do your thing baby...mamma gots you. 
SNAP ZOOM ON BULLET as she slams the action forward, loading the round WE SMASH CUT TO BLACK. 
...Dial tones over black.   A phone rings. A voice answers. 
FADE UP ON: 
A reel-to-reel machine activates, begins to record-- A sticker on the pick-up spool reads: "PROPERTY OF THE F.B.I." 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
The players take their places. Over these images WE HEAR: 
SERNA (V.O.) Buzzy...Buzz...? 
PADICHE (V.O.) Yeah...Sid? 
SERNA (V.O.) Right, you got clicks, anything? 
PADICHE (V.O.) Nah, nuthin' on my end-- 
Vitoli, aka Lazlo Soot: arriving at the Penthouse level, exchanging nods with the security team, pushing his service cart out of the elevator and down the hall, through a metal detector, which goes off. Vitoli/Soot shrugs, gestures to his stainless steel cart. The security team wave him through. 
SERNA (V.O.) So how we lookin'? 
PADICHE (V.O.) Good. This thing's on track, looks like it's gonna get done. 
SERNA (V.O.) Fuckin' thrilled t'hear it. So the scout, the sitdown, y'musta felt it from 'em then huh? 
PADICHE (V.O.) Cold blood Sid, dead eyes, y'know? 
Pasquale Acosta: Now wearing the nametag of "Bill" the recently deceased Security Supervisor. He buttons his red blazer, hanging the penthouse pass key around his neck as he moves through the lobby, carrying a small briefcase. 
SERNA (V.O.) That's what we're countin' on. What'd they say when you went for specifics? 
The Tremor Brothers: Duffel bags straining with the horrible, shit inside. They move toward a service elevator, swapping pill bottles, downing overdose amounts, repeating "Mein Kampf" recitations as they push the elevator's call button. 
PADICHE (V.O.) Lil' cagey, y'know, don't like t'share trade secrets, that type'a thing. 
SERNA (V.O.) Okay-- yeah, I can, I respect that. 
PADICHE (V.O.) How are we on time...? 
Hollis Elmore: Frantically ringing the alley delivery doorbell of a local Souvenir Shop-- naked, frozen, delirious, near- death, he has dragged himself there. 
SERNA (V.O.) Well, I'm hearin' the Swede's been dispatched, he's flying so-- 
PADICHE Well, uh-- damn, alright, so he's headed in, does that-- where does that leave us? 
Agent Messner: Watching as the bodies of Dupree and Deeks are hauled from the lake by Sheriff's personnel. He walks the shoreline, searching for clues, on his cellphone, trying to reach Security at the Nomad. 
SERNA (V.O.) --in a foot race right now. Really a matter of who out hustles who, y'know... 
Agent Carruthers: Plugging in his headset as he reaches the front of the Nomad, leaping out, rushing inside, holstering his gun for the moment. 
PADICHE (V.O.) So we gotta get t'Israel pretty quick for this to fly, yeah? I think? 
Georgia Sykes; Pulling a small revolver from her garter- holster, annoyed, rubbing the chaffed area, reaching the elevator, leaning back against the wall, waiting. 
SERNA (V.O.) Basically-- it'd really be the best thing right now, yeah. Can't give up the ship now Buzzy-- 
Sharice Watters; Her eye going to the rifle-scope...she makes subtle adjustments to the targeting-ring-- P.O.V. -- Israel's penthouse sits in the crosshairs. We see a figure, just beyond the glass...a shimmering shape, moving within. 
PADICHE (V.O.) --No, no, not when y'can see the shore. I hear ya. 
SERNA (V.O.) Okay, well, y'know, then we just gotta get Israel. 
PADICHE (V.O.) I'm working on it. 
SERNA (V.O.) Bag this fucker Buzzy. 
PADICHE (V.O.) It's gettin' done Sid. 
Watters tracks the figure-- finger finding the trigger as we SMASH CUT TO: 
BLACK 
FADE UP ON: 
Ivy unbuttons his coat. A .50 Cal rides in his shoulder-rig. Israel averts his eyes. Ivy lets the moment load up...then; 
SIR IVY You believe in loyalty, don'tcha? (pause, then) 'Specially the kind of loyalty where an otherwise sensible motherfucker puts his own best interests aside to selflessly serve another. 'Cuz outside a goddamn dog, that kinda loyalty, my kinda shit, don't get any more dedicated, or deep, or devout... 
Israel, unnerved now-- spots a small handgun sticking out of his bag. He covers it with the bedspread, looking up at Ivy. 
ISRAEL ...what are you tryin' to say? 
CARRUTHERS (V.O.) What I've been saying. Get me your head of security right now. 
CUT TO: 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- LOBBY -- SAME 
Carruthers, bracing the same Casino Employee Acosta braced earlier. College kid, patch-acne, panic-stricken, stammering, struggling, a phone stuck to his hand-- 
CASINO EMPLOYEE --I don't-- it's just-- I can't reach him. He's not picking up the extensio-- 
CARRUTHERS --I know that. Which floor are they on? 
The kid's skittish gaze shifts, locking on a figure moving through the lobby. 
CASINO EMPLOYEE (with great relief) Wait-- He-- there, that's one of our guys ther-- 
Carruthers breaks off, moving for the man in the maroon jacket heading toward the elevator. He reaches him, puts a hand on his shoulder. 
CARRUTHERS Excuse me, sir. 
The man turns...His nametag reads "Bill." 
BILL/ACOSTA Yes. 
Carruthers badges him. 
CARRUTHERS Special Agent Donald Carruthers. We've got a situation developing here in your hotel. 
Acosta has fully assumed the identity of the murdered security supervisor. The pimply kid at counter eyeballs him, confused. Acosta steps behind Carruthers, blocking himself from view. 
BILL/ACOSTA How can I help you? 
Carruthers leads him toward an awaiting elevator. 
CARRUTHERS I need to get to your penthouse level immediately, I also need every other elevator with access to that floor evacuated and locked down. 
They step into the lift. 
BILL/ACOSTA Is this an emergency? 
CARRUTHERS Let's hope not. 
The elevator doors close behind them as we... 
CUT TO: 
Elevator doors open to reveal: The Tremor Brothers, vibrating at varying speeds, pharmaceutical stares, simultaneously sharp and dull. Georgia Sykes stares back, bad vibes trickle up her back. She holds a moment. Doesn't board. 
SYKES I'm going down. 
Darwin looks her over, lecherous grin. 
DARWIN TREMOR Bet'chu are. 
He mimics a blowjob, treating her like the hooker he thinks she is. Sykes wants to shoot him in the face. Lester and Jeeves oogle her as the doors begin to close. 
Darwin smiles wide and lewd. Sykes kisses her middle finger. 
SYKES ...Faggot-ass redneck... 
Darwin's smile turns scowl as the elevator doors slide shut. 
WATTERS What'd you say? 
SYKES Not you. Some assholes on the elevator...are these bitches on a permanent smoke break or what? Why the fuck they call'm "working girls." 
Watters grabs her binoculars; sees the four prostitutes snub cigarette butts and start to head inside. 
WATTERS Alright, the ho train is exiting the station. They're coming to you... 
Sykes waits a beat, then reaches for the call button to signal another car. WE FOLLOW HER FINGER to the "up" button and-- 
CUT TO: 
A blackened fingertip, trembling, barely enough force behind it to hold a delivery bell button down. 
EXT. "LAKEY'S SOUVENIR SHOPPE" -- DAY 
Hollis Elmore, hypothermia-ravaged, racked by seismic-like seizures, body temperature terminally low. The delivery door is flung open and A KID of about twelve stands there; cross-eyed, coke-bottle eyeglasses, shirtless, wearing a rising-sun head-wrap and karate Gee. He says nothing. 
BEANIE (CONT'D) (almost to himself) Aw hell no you ain't just do that... 
Three more soundless shots from the 9mm put a humane end to these proceedings-- blowing Beanie's body over a sofa chair. His three-hundred plus pound frame slides to an unceremonious halt in the remnants of the shattered coffee table. 
Israel's calf-skin coat lies near Beanies dead body, a pool of blood surrounding it, soaking through and all the while... The phone continues to ring. 
INT. BEDROOM -- SAME 
Ivy and Israel, oblivious to what's gone on, fifty feet away. 
SIR IVY What did you say to Mecklen? 
Israel looks from the ringing phone-- to the gun in his bag-- no good-- Ivy will kill him before he clears the bedspread. 
ISRAEL That's probably him now... 
SIR IVY ...See, this is one'a them rare moments when y'ass get a chance to be completely honest...and if I'm asking you what you said to Mecklen, assume the shit is rhetorical...so assume I already know. 
Ivy lets that .50 caliber hang like intimidation itself. Israel looks over at the ringing phone, then back at Ivy. He slowly withdraws the deck of cards from his robe pocket, begins shuffling at lightspeed, firing them across his body, left to right, right to left. 
ISRAEL A set of skills, God-given gifts, I close my eyes. 
He does, snatching a card cold from the deck, turning it to Ivy. 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) King of Clubs...You pick up this deck, s'just playing cards, I pick up this deck it's a living, breathing thing. What do you see right now? You see exactly and only, what I choose to show you....That's illusion Ivy. That's the lie I tell your eyes. The manipulation of movement. Knowing where your gaze wants to go, guiding it there. Making the magic happen in that moment, that split- second, but seeing behind it, knowing it's all bullshit...Built on sand. (MORE) 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) (cards flying crazy) I can show the Feds what they want to see too. And make it as real as this room. Make it more than smoke, more than mirrors...and that's why I'm valuable...and that's why you're not. (beat) I never wanted it this way. 
Israel, a card slipping from his sleeve, into his throwing hand...Ace Of Spades. He keeps it cupped. 
SIR IVY Oh you ain't done a damn thing can't be undone Playa. The dye ain't even close t'cast. Y'wanna make some shit real? No stage, no and lemme say this one time... 
CUT TO: 
INT. LEARJET -- DAY 
Locke, inbound to Tahoe with a detachment of D.C. Agents accompanying him. He's examining contents from the confidential package he received earlier: PHOTOS of a post- op Primo Sparazza, plastic surgery shrink-wrapped, his face swollen and deformed, dozens of photos, dozens of dates. 
SIR IVY (V.O.) ...If you think old man Primo could twist your shit up... 
He scans the surgical reports, specific sentences and words pop: "MALIOFACIAL DISORDER" "DEGENERATIVE BONE DISEASE" "BULLET FRAGMENTS" He keeps reading... 
SIR IVY (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...It ain't nothin' compared to what I 'bout to do here. Believe that. 
ACOSTA/BILL (V.O.) I don't believe this. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME 
"Bill" aka Pasquale Acosta, hitting a walkie-talkie against his leg, checking for a signal-- faking the whole affair. 
ACOSTA/BILL Battery's completely dead. 
Carruthers, behind him in the elevator, checking his cellphone-- 
ACOSTA/BILL (CONTD) (CONT'D) Forget it, you won't get a signal in here. Have to wait. 
Carruthers, annoyed, stowing his cellphone. 
CARRUTHERS (re: wall phone) Can't you use the line in here to contact your people. 
ACOSTA/BILL (not missing a beat) No, these phones are hardwired directly to maintenance. Once we reach the penthouse, I can call down and have the system taken off-line. 
Carruthers, absent nods, anxious. Acosta/Bill, back to futzing with his walkie-talkie-- going so far as to remove the battery-- --And that's when Carruthers sees it...Bill's fingers, flesh mottled at the tips, horribly scarred over-- 
--something clicks --memories fire --photostrobic... 
FLASH CUT TO: 
The briefing in D.C., Supervisor Locke-- 
LOCKE Pasquale Acosta-- Mercenary-- "El Estrago"-- "The Plague" 
CUT BACK TO SCENE: 
Carruthers' expression goes black... 
LOCKE (V.O.) (CONT'D) When he was caught by the SAS in Northern Ireland and imprisoned, he chewed off his fingertips to the bone before he could be printed and ID'd by Interpol. 
Carruthers stares at those fingers, backs against the wall, hand moving slowly toward his waist-- suspicions pique. 
CARRUTHERS Can't maintenance do that? 
ACOSTA/BILL Do what? 
Carruthers unclips his belt holster. 
MARGIE (CONTD) (CONT'D) (beat) Now Boogie, Grandma needs her big helper boy now, go on an' get those things and grandma'll rub your feet! 
WARREN My karate feet? My crazy Karate kick feet!! 
Warren puts the ice cream sandwich in his mouth and begins hopping up and down, kicking, striking the wall with great, disturbing ferocity. Margie cackles at this. 
MARGIE You little angel-butt! Grandma'll rub those feet forever! 
Elmore, struggling against imminent death, watching this display with increasing dread. He scans the sink basin-- sees it lined with anti-depressants; Ritalin, Thorazine, etc Warren keeps throwing hard roundhouse kicks into the wall. 
MARGIE (CONT'D) Oh you silly-sil! Never mind, Grandma'll get it! 
Margie marches off and Warren immediately rushes over to the tub, placing himself directly over the inert Elmore and assuming a martial arts stance. He opens his mouth to speak and the ice cream sandwich tumbles out, landing in the tub. 
WARREN (barking out) Bow to your opponent! 
Warren bows before he squares up and begins methodically delivering a "Kata" of punches and kicks...violently and expertly snapped within millimeters of Elmore's face. Elmore, helpless to raise his arms or defend himself, stares in horror as the boy, his glasses beginning to fog and drip with perspiration, works himself into a furious lather. 
ELMORE (trying to speak) Pl-- kid, st-- stop... 
Elmore holds up his stump   of a hand,   pinky wagging in pathetic plea-- no use-- Warren is   in a state   of unhinged, near-animal frenzy-- his eyes wild, a   small, yet   prominent erection beginning to poke through   his karate   gee... 
Margie returns to the bathroom, scolds her grandson.    He squares up on her, feigning a blow to her face. She     clouts him, hard backhand, big flabby arms restraining him,    hauling him out of the bathroom. He bleats like a butchered     sheep. 
Elmore, left alone, stark naked, shaking-- he turns his head, gazing into the other room-- a newscast plays on the television: A Reporter, lakeside, via live feed...standing in the same parking lot where Deeks and Dupree were killed. 
CUT TO: 
TELEVISION SCREEN 
We slowly DOLLY BACK, revealing a different room. 
REPORTER (ON SCREEN) --the two men slain here earlier today as authorities speculate as to the apparent disappearance of a third. The names of the victims are being withheld, pending notification of family members, but Action Seven has learned that one of the deceased, identified as Jack Dupree-- 
INT. HOTEL ROOM -- BLACKJACK INN -- SAME 
Rupert Reed, shit-faced off belts of straight scotch, a stack of shot-glasses on his chest, gaped-jawed at the television. 
REPORTER --was a resident of Las Vegas, Nevada-- 
Reed lurches up, going for the phone, shot-glasses scattering, scotch bottle upending, bouncing off the bed. 
REED (to himself, dialing) ...holy shit, shit, shit... 
CUT TO: 
TELEVISION SCREEN 
We slowly DOLLY IN now. 
REPORTER We've also learned that Mr. Dupree was employed as a process server and bondsman for Draygo Bail Bonds and may have been in this area on a fugitive apprehension-- 
INT. GAMBLER'S RAMBLE HOTEL -- SAME 
Victor Padiche, playing solitaire, one card frozen in his hand as he watches the news. 
PADICHE ...uh oh... 
REPORTER A rental vehicle, registered in Mr. Dupree's name, has been recovered in the parking lot of the nearby Nomad Hotel & Casino... 
CUT TO: 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO -- PARKING STRUCTURE -- DAY 
Agent Messner arrives, flanked by shotgun-toting Sheriff's deputies, local cops and Bureau field agents. They deploy, cordoning off the scene, taking control. 
WE SEE Hugo and Doc Gill, ducking down, Hugo still has the phone to his ear. As they approach a rear stairwell with a door that reads: "AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY: PENTHOUSE LEVEL" two FEDS descend, chaining and bolting the door. 
HUGO Shit...answer the fucking phone. 
CUT TO: 
INT. NOMAD HOTEL -- PENTHOUSE -- SAME 
The phone is still ringing as Soot, Browning 9mm at his side, stalks the voices coming from the master bedroom 
CUT TO: 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- SAME 
Ivy, fingers brushing his gun grip, stares Israel down. 
SIR IVY Y'ain't never had to wash another man's blood off, dig it out y'fingernails...Y'had us for that. Y'ain't ever made a real beef on y'own, shit as light in the ass as you are, I'll bet you ain't ever made anything more than a fuck'n fist your whole life. (beat) So if you think I'mma let your lil' punk-ass, with the dirt I've done for you, in the eleventh hour, sell me off like some fucking field nigger, hand me up to the Feds like y'last chip, then you done gone straight out-your-motherfucking MIND! 
ISRAEL (nodding to phone) That's Mecklen. The deal's closing. I can pick that phone up and I can work this out. (MORE) 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) (beat, for ffect) You'll walk with me. 
EXT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME 
They amass around the elevator, taking care to double handcuff Ivy now. Mustache pushes the call button. It fails to light. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME 
Choked with generator and road flare smoke, lit like hell itself. The Tremors stand at arms, shrouded in a miasmic mung of horribly toxic fumes, filling their lungs with it. 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. HALLWAY -- SAME 
Mustache hits the call button again, still nothing.   Yet one of the lifts appears to be ascending 
SECURITY TEAM Wait...one of 'em looks like it's on its way up... 
MUSTACHE What about the other four?   Are they out? 
He keeps hitting the call button, but it won't light. 
MUSTACHE (CONTD) (CONT'D) The hell is going on... 
WATTERS (V.O.) ...Forget it, it's dead. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME 
Sykes, trying to pry the elevator doors open. 
SYKES It ain't dead! Quit saying that shit! 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME 
Watters pours herself a glass of Chablis from the mini-bar. 
WATTERS Girl, I just saw muzzle flashes comin' out that suite. S'probably where you heard that shootin' earlier, somebody jus' downed Israel. He dead, our play is dead. 
Sykes, getting some separation on the elevator doors, pulling her 9mm, using it like a crowbar. 
SYKES I'm not givin' it up jus' yet... 
WATTERS C'mon, I say we bounce now, kick it for a lil' bit, play some craps. (beat, probing) ...Maybe spend the night? 
Sykes, struggling, when the doors suddenly retract on their own...She's staggered by what she sees in the elevator, tripping back, heels catching, dumping her on her ass-- 
SYKES (just above whisper) ...oh...damn... 
She sits up, stupefied...cordite and pistol smoke drift out of the open elevator doors like a funeral dirge. The sound of a bone-saw emanates from within. 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR 
Carruthers and Acosta...wartorn, shot to hell, post-battle standoff, just staring, weapons emptied, bodies bullet- punctured, leaking life...both are breathing, but just barely. 
WATTERS (OVER HEADSET) What is it...? 
Filament and glass dust cover everything. Blood streams in steaming fissures, floating spent shell casings and fluorescent shards cover the floor of the car. 
Acosta, clinging to life itself, clutching the whirring bone saw, trying in vain to reach Carruthers. Sykes wades forward, wary, Glock vise-gripped. 
SYKES ...Shhhhhhit...girl, there's these two dudes, just sittin' here in this elevator, all shot up... 
WATTERS What? 
SYKES (beat, looking around) They musta been beefin' big time with one another, cuz this shit, got way past words, whatever it was. 
WATTERS ...What are they doin' right now...? 
Sykes, glancing from Carruthers to Acosta. A beat. 
SYKES Right now? (beat) ...Dying. 
CUT TO: 
INT. "LAKEY'S SOUVENIR SHOPPE" -- KITCHENETTE -- DAY 
Elmore, seated, wrapped in quilts and heated blankets, shivering horribly, lips blackened, flexing brittle fingers on his good hand, trying to restore feeling, teeth clattering like ten thousand tea cups. Margie Turlock enters, arms loaded down, grandson Warren hot on her heels, a set of Nunchukas under his arm... 
...Elmore, palpable hatred, pure bile for the boy. 
Margie sets the assortment of goods down on the table in front of Elmore; tourist-themed hats & sweatsuits from the shop, a pair of thermals, a collection of pill bottles and what appears to be an old Vietnam-era ammo box. 
MARGIE So them fellas were your friends then? The ones that was shot and tossed into the lake? Were they police officers too? 
MESSNER And that didn't seem odd to you? 
The kid glances around, oops-- my mistake-- tries to amend. 
CASINO EMPLOYEE I-- I mean, I thought they gave it to him so he cou-- 
Messner turns on his heels, the other agents tag along. 
MESSNER (addressing others) We may have a man posing as one of us. Get a tactical team assembled. We need to get to the penthouse level immediately. 
FBI AGENT We'll have to power the elevators back up. 
MESSNER Do it. 
As they move past the group of call girls, still arguing with security as we... 
...CUT TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- SAME 
Israel, sickly, face bloodless, sitting down on a couch, setting the small handgun down on the table next to him. He digs at his chest now, in considerable pain, rotating his arm around, trying to rouse it. 
ISRAEL Fucking things falling asleep... 
Israel gazes at Beanie's body, trying to figure out an appropriate course of action. 
ISRAEL (CONT'D) (over his shoulder) Vitoli, just sit tight for a second, I gotta make a phone call, figure this out... 
He takes out his cellphone, dialing Morris Mecklen. Soot appears behind him, easing the 9mm out of his waistband and resuming his stalk...ever...so...slowly. 
CUT TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME 
Israel's security crew, surrounding a still-stunned Sir Ivy, waiting on the lift. One of the elevators approaches. The rest appear to be down. 
BODYGUARD #1 One of 'em on it's way up. This doesn't make any sense, what's wrong with the rest of 'em? 
Suddenly, the stairwell doors are flung open, revealing Hugo and Gill. All guns whip simultaneously to that spot. 
HUGO (hands up) Whoa, hey-- hey-- hold-up, hold-up, I got the Doc, easy... (beat, seeing Ivy) What's going on? 
MUSTACHE Ivy tried to kill Mr. Israel and shot Mr. Alphonse in the process. He's dead. 
Hugo, thunderstruck. 
HUGO --Beanie!? What? How did that happe-- (beat, angry now) Ivy!? 
Ivy, ashamed, not looking up. 
IVY Buddy was goin' jam us Hugo. He was gonna fuck us up with the Feds... 
SYKES ...Wait a minute...This one's a Fed. 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME 
Sykes, holding Carruthers' FBI credentials after patting him down. She doesn't notice that power has been restored to the elevator. 
WATTERS (O.S.) What? 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME 
Watters, trying to listen to Sykes, but concerned by the sudden surge of activity from the police scanners. 
SYKES (O.S.) Girl one of these fools has an FBI badge on him! Is this the one that was doing the inspection? 
WATTERS Hold up, hold up, I'm getting shots over the scanners, tons of traffic-- jus' chill for a sec, lemme listen... 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR 
Sykes, pocketing the Carruthers ID. Behind her, Acosta manages to move enough to cover the "Bill" ID on his jacket. 
Sykes turns back to him, moving over to his now still form-- blood drenched, barely conscious, eyes flittering like black flies...she kicks the bone saw from his hand. It spins to a gradual stop. She leans over him...the stiletto blade he used to dispatch "Bill" and hack Carruthers digits off has retracted back into his sleeve. 
Sykes begins patting him down, moving dangerously close to that sleeve, her neck hovering right above that spot-- 
SYKES You jus' lay still, we goin figure out what the fuck ya'll were up t-- 
She pulls Acosta's bogus ID...Gerald Diego: Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
SYKES (CONT'D) You ain't gonna believe this shit. (beat) Both these motherfuckers are FEDS. 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME 
Sykes, hearing that last transmission simultaneously. 
MESSNER'S VOICE --watch for fire... 
She glances down at Carruthers, sees his IFB in his lap, realizes that's where the voice is coming from. Plugs it into her ear. 
MESSNER'S VOICE (CONTD) (CONT'D) Stay low, breach on my mark... 
Sykes, covering Carruthers' IFB, whispering into her own. 
SYKES Shar...Fourteen, I'm pinched-- I need some heavy shit, fire-from- heaven...my count. 
CUT TO: 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME 
Watters, re-targeting, bringing the Barrett .50 to bear on the lower floors, sighting down from the top, counting back to fourteen, settling, locking off the tripod, gazing through her scope... HEARTBEAT BUILDING STILL, becoming more erratic. 
WATTERS POV: Fourteenth floor, big glass windows, drawn curtains...she nuzzles the eyepiece, finger slipping delicately inside the trigger guard...waiting. 
WATTERS (INTO IFB) Bet. 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME 
With Sykes attention diverted, Acosta begins slowly moving his hand toward his pant leg, reaching for a hidden ankle- holster as we-- 
CUT TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME 
--Mustache and his men, hands going to their rigs, shoulder and waist. A handcuffed Ivy watches with them as the elevator doors open and a big plume of black smoke vacates the car, eerily cast light burns blood red within, infernal, hellish. Now, another pull engine leaps to life from inside the car, this one gnarled and guttural, winding out...a chainsaw. 
HEARTBEAT JACKHAMMERING NOW. Out of control. 
The sound falls away, leaving only the runaway throb of the beating heart as we-- 
CUT TO: 
SLO-MO DOLLY IN: 
Buddy Israel. Both hands going to his heart. Something horribly wrong. He pitches forward, falling away from Soot's pistol-- 
THE HEARTBEAT crescendos wildly, out-of-control... 
CUT TO: 
...A BELL-RANGER HELICOPTER, the heartbeat becoming the thwack of rotor blades as it lifts off with Deputy Director Locke and an FBI tactical team inside... 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE 
...a kaleidoscope of scenarios about to be played out at the exact same second...shared fates...Shakespearean fraught...in this soundless realm the CAMERA TAKES US PAST THE FOLLOWING: 
HUGO -- Looking on in horror as Israel collapses. 
DOC GILL -- Rushing to Buddy's aide. 
SOOT -- Bringing the 9mm up, leveling it on Hugo. 
CAMERA MOVES OUT INTO THE PENTHOUSE HALLWAY PAST: 
MUSTACHE -- Sensing grave danger, his gun being drawn. His m en following suit. 
IVY -- Pulling away from his captors, looking for cover. 
DARWIN TREMOR -- Stepping from the elevator, strapped with a sawed-off pump shotgun in one hand, a vintage elephant gun in the other, looking for lives to end. 
s LESTER TREMOR -- Chainsaw snarling, spewing oil, psycho smile preading viral across a pockmarked face. 
JEEVES TREMOR -- Sledgehammer in a scabbard on his back, h olding WWII era German "Potato-Masher" grenades, gripped like drumsticks, pins pulled. He hurls them. 
CAMERA MOVES PAST THEM, DOWN ELEVATOR SHAFT TO: 
SYKES -- Pulling extra clips from her handbag, securing them under her garter belt, dumping her heels in favor of hose. 
ACOSTA -- Pant leg lifted, moving panther-quiet, tortoise- slow, unfastening the snap on his ankle-holster. 
c CARRUTHERS -- Near death, eyes locked on Acosta, his mortal ombatant, trying desperately to reach his own ankle holster. 
MESSNER -- Watching as his team moves into place around the e levator. Checking his own piece, flicking off the safety. 
CAMERA MOVES OUT THE WINDOW AND UP TO: 
WATTERS -- In the Hotel window across the way, sniper-rifle s nug to her shoulder, eye on the scope, waiting for the word. 
BLAM!BLAM!    BLAM!! 
Acosta's chest explodes, he slumps, the gun sliding away-- Messner swings wide on the car to reveal: 
Carruthers, smoking gun, trembling aim, exposed ankle holster...empty. Sykes, kevlar burning, smashed round still hot, she tries to pull her vest off, finds her newly paralyzed arm uncooperative. Messner, advancing now, keeping an eye on his partner as he moves toward the car. 
MESSNER LADY, SHOW ME YOUR HANDS RIGHT NOW! 
SYKES I NEED MY HANDS MOTHERFUCKER! I'M HIT! KILL ME OR LET ME BE! 
Messner enters the elevator, rushes to the doomed Carruthers. 
MESSNER How bad? 
CARRUTHERS Mortal. 
MESSNER No. 
CARRUTHERS Yeah. 
Messner takes his partner under the arms, lugging him into the open hallway, stripping off his shirt. Carruthers severed hand nearly falls away from the rest of his arm. 
Acosta spits blood from the lungs-- his breathing now a bog of pinched snorts and gurgles. 
MESSNER (re: Acosta, yelling to the others) SECURE THIS SUSPECT! 
TWO FEDS enter to remove Acosta from the car-- he lets out a guttural yelp as they hoist him-- real pain or playing possum, 
impossible to tell...As his legs clear the elevator doors, they slowly close on the wounded Sykes. 
Messner, tries to prevent them from closing, can't-- gazes up at the digital counter as the elevator continues its ascent to the Penthouse level... 
CUT TO: 
INT. ELEVATOR CAR 
Sykes, riding up, wounded, vulnerable, trying to reach the control panel to stop the car. She keys her now useless IFB. 
SYKES (into IFB) Girl, I'm inside, I'm on my way up-- this elevator is going to the Penthouse-- can you hear me--? Baby, can you hear me-- 
CUT TO: 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME 
--Watters, panicked, pulling the Barrett up off its tri-pod, hitting the hallway, double-timing to the stairwell...She has no idea that she's lost radio contact with Watters. 
WATTERS Sit tight if you can hear me Girl! I can't do shit for you from here. I'm moving down for a sightline! 
CUT TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME 
Plaster and debris everywhere, sprinklers tripped, most of Mustache's team shot, shredded or burnt to a crisp. Pieces of building and bodies either waterlogged or fully ablaze. Mustache and Darwin play duck and cover, exchanging fire. Jeeves, out of grenades, sledgehammer swinging, crushing wall studs, scattering remaining security team members. 
Ivy, sheltered, having survived the opening salvos, gets ahold of a gun from a chainsaw-shorn former security member; Lester sees Ivy arming himself, blitzes him-- chainsaw snarling, revved out, sending fantails of gristle and chipped bone everywhere. Less than fifteen feet separate them. 
Ivy fires, shots deflected off the blade's teeth, seconds from getting gutted-- he adjusts his aim high, emptying the gun into Lester's chest, bullets blazing haywire, blowing out between Lester's shoulders, stopping a hard charge cold. 
Lester, lopsided, bullet-dazed, drools blood...then dies. Ivy dumps his clip, searches for another-- the chainsaw falls, stalls. 
Jeeves, hefting the sledgehammer like a hayseed John Henry, looks over as his older brother's life come to an end. He reacts badly. 
JEEVES TREMOR LESTERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR! 
Jeeves buries the sledge in a wall, takes up the chainsaw, rips the pullcord, resumes the charge-- 
Ivy, finds a clip, slams it in the stock, points, pulls-- trigger-stick, hammer-jam. He falls to his back, scurrying away, trouble finding traction, soles slipping-- he keeps pulling the trigger. Jeeves straddles him from above, raises the saw like a great wooden stake, about to bring it down-- 
--BAM! 
Ivy's automatic discharges. The round splits the saw's gas tank, spritzing fuel, dousing Jeeves-- A beat before the tank suddenly arcs, exploding, lighting Jeeves up like a four-hundred pound bonfire, bouncing him off the walls; a human Hindenberg, fully engulfed. He flails, burns, howls, falls...molten fat melts off his body like lard butter... 
Darwin, dismayed, both brothers down...He moves on Mustache, dispatches him with detached efficiency, snapping his neck clean. He then starts toward Ivy, who's trying desperately to crawl out of there. 
CUT TO: 
INT. PENTHOUSE -- SAME 
Hugo, crawling across the floor, knees dragging over his own blood trail, trying to reach: Israel, on the ground, dying. Soot's gun has jammed. He clears it efficiently, patiently reloading the weapon as Doc Gill, in panic mode, performs full chest compressions on Buddy as we-- 
CUT TO: 
INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME 
Messner, doing the same to Carruthers, trying to restart his heart. Acosta, lays there silently, slowly bleeding out, being tended to by a team of agents. In the b.g. Cops and Feds gather near the window, searching for the assailant, binoculars and rifle scopes strafing the Horizon hotel across the way, concentrating at the open window near the top floor. 
CUT TO: 
The Agent nods confirmation. Locke reaches into Soot's coat, finds his cellphone...hits redial. 
LOCKE (CONTD) (CONT'D) (into phone) Would you join us please... 
Locke disconnects, passes the phone to an underling. 
LOCKE (CONT'D) Where are Carruthers and Messner? 
AGENT #1 Agent Carruthers was killed sir, (as Locke turns back) Agent Messner is unaccounted for. 
LOCKE Account for him. 
CUT TO: 
INT. STAIRWELL -- SAME 
Messner, bounding up the steps, gun drawn, hears voices coming down the stairs toward him-- stops, checks his weapon... 
CUT TO: 
INT. STAIRWELL -- SAME 
Ivy and Sykes descending the stairs. He carries her like a princess, sweeping her down landing after landing. 
SIR IVY What's your name baby girl... 
Sykes, somehow shy, sweet, gazing up at him. 
SYKES ...Georgia. 
Ivy, big smile. 
SIR IVY Georgia on my mind wit'yo fine ass. You know you saved this black man. 
SYKES You know I did baby... (smiling, assessing) And a deep, dark one at that. Now if you ain't a dog, which you don't look like-- 
SIR IVY --never in a million girl-- 
SYKES --good, then all you got to be is grateful. 
SIR IVY No doubt. That's my moms there, taught me them skills. 
SYKES You love her? 
SIR IVY My mamma? C'mon shorty, y'gotta ask? (beat, sees her wounds) You hurtin' pretty bad? 
SYKES (nodding) Got hit twice. 
SIR IVY It's going around ain't it? Mafuckas catching bullets like the common cold up in this bitch. (beat) I think I accidentally shot and killed my boy today. 
SYKES Well, if it's any comfort, I's goin' in to there to act a fool baby. (taps her gun) Straight rockin' heat and slayin' niggas-- 
SIR IVY For real? 
SYKES Mmm-hmm...and your boy very well mighta been one of 'em. 
SIR IVY True? 
SYKES Like a mafucka. 
SIR IVY That takes some of the sting out. 
SYKES I probably woulda busted on you too ...and what a shame that woulda been. 
SIR IVY I feel like I know you girl. I feel like I've known you forever. (beat, smiles) You gonna lemme see your scars? 
SYKES You do the right thing. Sit with me while I heal, let it develop slow. 
SIR IVY What were you doin' here anyway? 
SYKES 'Spose to kill this fool named Buddy Israel. 
This gets Ivy's biggest grin. 
SYKES (CONT'D) Damn baby girl, you makin' a nigga fall hard now. 
He reaches the seventeenth floor, rounds the corner, nearly runs into Messner, has a gun thrust in his face. 
MESSNER F.B.I. YOU'RE UNDER ARREST! PUT HER DOWN, GET UP AGAINST THAT WALL! 
Sykes recognizes him and in a blink has a gun under his chin. 
SYKES Don't play out this string, 'cuz it's real short I didn't do your man downstairs. I found him that way. Now whether or not you believe that ain't the least bit important. We either goin' work this out and live, or stay doin' the shit we been doin' and die. Now I got no beef with you, or wit ya'll bureau...so you better off jus' movin' on & lettin' us be. 
Messner, eyes moving from Ivy to Sykes. Stalemate, no sense pushing. He moves past them, hits the stairwell exit on eighteen. Ivy and Sykes resume their trek down the stairs. 
INT. HALLWAY -- PENTHOUSE FLOOR 
INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- DAY 
Watters, gear stowed, seemingly indifferent about the level of law enforcement heading up her way, about to launch an Alamo-like last stand in honor of her fallen sista. 
She hears commotion erupt from outside as survivors begin filing from the building. She takes up the Barrett, gazing through the scope, looking, looking, looking...stops...holy shit...it's her. It's Sykes. 
And she's alive and being carried by a man, a big gorgeous black man that she's gazing upon with utter love and longing. A boulder-sized lump takes shape in Watters throat; betrayed, backbit-- tears come to fast to contain, too many to control. 
Numbed...the sensation leaving her fingers, she finds herself racking the bolt on the Barrett and gazing through crosshairs...taking aim on Ivy's head. Behind her, the elevator arrives, an a dozen armed cops, hoo-rah from it, hustling the length of the hall, descending down on her-- 
WATTERS (whispering) ...I loved you baby... 
BOOM! 
EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE -- NOMAD HOTEL -- SAME 
A gunshot in the distance followed by shrieks-- Darwin Tremor snaps his head around at the sound, moving past platoons of Cops and Feds now rushing that way. His I.D. is out, affording him easy egress. He hops the stairs up, top level, Barracuda parked at the rear of the lot. As he approaches... 
VOICE (O.S.) Hey... 
Darwin glances over at...Hollis Elmore, standing there, skin horribly discolored, disease afflicted. He wears a hooded tourist sweatsuit; "Ta-Hoe, Ta-Hoe It's Off To Fun We Go!" stitched in cursive across the front. He's holding the Colt Python against his hip. 
ELMORE (nodding to Cuda) That your car? 
Darwin, a beat, what-to-do...hillbilly-acumen in overdrive. 
DARWIN TREMOR No, I'm confiscating it. (holding up badge) F.B.I. 
Now Elmore raises the Colt with his good hand, advancing on Darwin, moving gingerly, his legs not quite there... 
ELMORE You're F.B.I.? 
Darwin tries to stay tight, composed. 
DARWIN TREMOR That's right...and I'd advise y'ta lower your weapon sir. 
Elmore keeps coming. 
ELMORE You investigating those murders out at the lake? 
DARWIN TREMOR (blanching a bit) Ww...uh... 
ELMORE Three men were ambushed and shot, two died and had their bodies tossed into the lake, the other has severe hypothermia, possible dementia and will probably be a multiple amputee by week's end...if he even lives that long. 
Darwin, uh-oh... 
DARWIN TREMOR No, I ain't even heard abou-- 
--Oops. 
ELMORE (even more menace) You "ain't"-- (beat, teeth clenched) You have any idea how close to death I've been? You understand that I'm dying now? That I've survived bullets and frostbite and raging fever-- (holding up hand) missing fingers and every fucking imaginable horror in between? 
Darwin...speechless...he's done. 
ELMORE (CONT'D) And I'm asking you now, "Is that your car" and you can't even come clean and do me the decency of a straight answer, with the fucking state that I'm in!? 
Elmore, that Colt looking like a cannon this close to Darwin. 
DARWIN TREMOR Yeah, shit-- hell, you're right. I'm sorry. 
ELMORE You shot me and murdered my friends. 
DARWIN TREMOR I did. We-- yeah, I know. 
ELMORE And threw us into the lake. 
DARWIN TREMOR Pretty much, yep. 
Elmore, still nodding. 
ELMORE And this is your car, isn't it? 
DARWIN TREMOR Mmm-hmm. 
ELMORE But there were more of you? 
DARWIN TREMOR Yeah, m'brothers...They didn't make it. 
ELMORE Two of 'em? 
DARWIN TREMOR (nods, tears flow) Thass' right. (beat, wiping eyes) I got other brother's though, so it ain't so bad. 
ELMORE You were here huntin' a man named Israel, weren't you? Your name is Tremor. 
Darwin gazes up at Elmore, some fraternal bond forms. 
DARWIN TREMOR I was. It is...That who you was here for? Israel? 
Messner searches the hall for a familiar face...finds it...Locke, far end, talking with an aide. 
LOCKE ...for a press release. Officially, he took his own life, suicide by hanging, something of that sort. Basic bullet points-- despondent over the turn his career had taken, troubles with the law, history of substance abuse and so on-- 
The aide sees Messner approach. Locke follows her eyes, turns. 
MESSNER Where's Israel? 
LOCKE What are you doing here? 
MESSNER My debrief-- 
LOCKE (indignant) --will be handled back in-- 
MESSNER --no, we need to handle it now. 
Locke, angered, handing his clipboard to the aide, taking Messner by the arm, leading him away. 
LOCKE You were given instructions to get on that plane and return to Washington-- 
A gun is in Locke's side now-- against his ribs-- he looks down, stunned...Now it's Messner who's leading him away. 
MESSNER You're going to tell me why no call was made to inform us that the Israel situation had been "altered." Why I-- and my friend and partner, whose body is going into a furnace tomorrow, were not sufficiently apprised of Bureau movement on this matter. 
Locke, pale, shook up. 
LOCKE I can't discuss-- 
MESSNER --You can and you will. 
LOCKE You're finished. 
MESSNER And you just figured that out? (jams gun into ribs) The Swede isn't a hitman, is he? He's a surgeon. Sparazza didn't want Israel's heart for a trophy, he wanted it for a transplant...why? 
SMASH CUT TO: 
INT. CEDARS SINAI -- I.C.U. -- RECOVERY ROOM -- DAY 
Locke and Messner enter. In an oxygen tent erected on one side of the room, sits the shrunken figure of Primo Sparazza. On the other, a barely conscious Buddy Israel. Both men are hooked up to multiple I-V's and heart monitors. 
LOCKE ...They're father and son... 
Messner turns back to Locke, mind racing, searching his memory, sparking to-- 
FLASH CUT: 
The Diner. The day before. 
MESSNER ...A paternity suit, filed 1967... 
CUT BACK TO SCENE: 
LOCKE --Brought against Sparazza by Israel's mother Laverne who was nineteen at the time. They had a brief affair which Israel was the by-product of. 
Messner turns back, gazing at Israel and Sparazza. 
MESSNER ...Does he know? 
LOCKE ...He does now... 
Israel and Sparazza glare at one another across the room with pure, unadulterated hated for the other. 
MESSNER So the wiretaps of Padiche and Serna-- 
CUT TO: 
The reel-to-reel machine spins: 
SERNA --some Swede, real badass, supposedly a "specialist" 
CUT BACK TO: 
LOCKE Dr. Sven Ingstrom is head of cardiology at Stockholm University and the foremost heart specialist in all of Europe-- 
Messner...words can't begin to describe his dismay. 
LOCKE (CONT'D) Sparazza was in failing health and looking for a donor. The son who had betrayed and burned him so thoroughly seemed a obvious choice. 
MESSNER So all of our intel was bogus to begin with. 
LOCKE Yes. The actual contract went to Lazlo Soot, the man that plunged to his death from the Penthouse yesterday. He was to neutralize Israel's entourage and prep for the removal of his heart. (MORE) 
LOCKE (CONT'D) Ingstrom was to handle the surgery itself on-site with the assistance of Dr. Gregory Gill, Israel's personal physician, who was also on the Sparazza payroll. 
Messner steps closer to Locke, close enough to throttle him. 
MESSNER ...When did you know all this? 
