"Snow Falling on Cedars", early, by Ronald Bass 
SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS 
Ronald Bass First Draft Screenplay March 3, 1997 
EXT. THE SUSAN MARIE, SHIP CHANNEL BANK - NIGHT 
Fog.  Penetrated only by sound.  The LAPPING of sea at a drifting hull.  Tendrils of mist part, revealing... 
...a face.  Strong and blond and handsome. 
SUPERIMPOSE:  SEPTEMBER 15, 1954 
LONG ANGLE...from below, we watch CARL HEINE, high on the cross spar of his mast.  He has pulled a SHUTTLE of TWINE from his rubber overalls, and is LASHING a LANTERN in the cloud of mist, as MAIN TITLES BEGIN... 
ANGLE...the tiny, meticulously neat cabin.  Empty, silent.  A tin COFFEE CUP on the counter's edge.  The battery well open, revealing two large BATTERIES in place.  PAN to... 
...the deck of this sturdy stern-picker.  The fishing net stretched from the huge DRUM into the sea.  Keep PANNING to the bow, where... 
...Carl stands with his kerosene lantern and his air horn, watching as another BOAT comes slowly out of the mist.  The silhouette of a FISHERMAN, holding a long fishing GAFF.  As fragments of fog part, we CLOSE on the figure's face, to see... 
...his eyes.  They are Asian.  SMASH CUT to... 
EXT. THE SUSAN MARIE, SHIP CHANNEL BANK - MORNING 
Blinding sun.  Our boat bobs lifeless on placid water.  As CREDITS CONTINUE, two figures slowly reel in the massive net.  SHERIFF ART MORAN is painfully thin, unimposing, methodical.  Only the eyes reflect his disquiet.  His young deputy, ABEL MARTINSON, cuts anxious looks between his mentor and the sea.  As the net brings silvered salmon across the gunnel, CUT to... 
...the cabin.  Tidy as before.  Only two things have changed. CLOSE on the tin coffee cup, which now lies OVERTURNED on the floor.  PAN above the open battery well, where a third MARINE BATTERY now stands next to the wheel.  CUT to... 
...the stern, as the raveling net LIFTS from the water's surface... 
...the face of Carl Heine.  Turned to the sun.  SMASH CUT to... 
INT. CORONER'S LAB - DAY 
WHITE fills the frame.  A hand PULLS back the blanket-shroud revealing Carl's face.  As CREDITS CONTINUE, tilt up to the coroner, HORACE WHALEY, gazing down.  A shading of regret behind the professional mask.  A series of QUICK CUTS... 
...Whaley's hand pulls the SHUTTLE of TWINE from Carl's pocket... 
...examines the open, empty KNIFE SHEATH at Carl's belt... 
...Carl's wrist, its WATCH stopped at 1:47... 
Whaley bends over Carl's body, presses on his solar plexus, watching pink FOAM rise from Carl's mouth and nose.  And then. He sees something more.  His fingers gently pull back the hair from above Carl's left ear, to reveal... 
...a skull wound.  The bone caved in.  Four inches across. 
EXT. SAN PIEDRO ISLAND - DAY 
Snow falling on cedars. 
SUPERIMPOSE:  DECEMBER 6. 
The heavens descend softly onto our island.  Exquisite, silent, hypnotic.  An epic snowfall inspiring awe at our frailness against the limitless scope of nature.  As CREDITS CONCLUDE, a series of QUICK ANGLES... 
...cars pirouetting, skating on their tires, past an abandoned school bus, where kids throw snowballs at is windows... 
...Fisk's Hardware Center, its endless queue of orderly citizens waiting stoically for their snow shovels and kerosene... 
...the harbor, with its moored fleet of tiny fishing vessels blanketed as if by volcanic ash, a pair of teenage lovers building a snowman at the edge of a dock, she pushes the boy into the water, and he rises laughing, steam rising from his clothes... 
...undulating strawberry fields of pure white, untouched and flawless as the Sahara... 
Finally, to a public building, cars gathering as best they can, people streaming up snow-laden steps to the entrance, and as we FOLLOW them, SMASH CUT to... 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
CLOSE on impassive EYES.  They are Asian.  We have seen them before.  PULL BACK to see... 
KABUO MIYAMOTO.  Early 30's, dark blue suit, clean shirt.  He sits ramrod straight, utterly motionless, expressionless, the eye of a storm of movement in... 
...the assembling COURTROOM.  A packed gallery of buzzing locals, the scent of anticipation.  A bank of REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS, cosmopolitan in attire, bearing themselves as jaded dignitaries from the civilized world.  As we PAN their ranks... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) It was the first murder trial on the island in thirty-one years. 
...we look over the right shoulder of ISHMAEL CHAMBERS, early 30's, dark, a rugged, somber man jotting notes on a pad which rests on his right leg. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Our only newspaper was the San Piedro Review, a four-page weekly that I operated alone. 
He glances blandly at his nonchalant colleagues. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) What, I wondered, could the Seattle boys know of the hearts of these people... 
To the JURY BOX.  Truck farmers, grocers, fishermen, in sober neckties.  A waitress, a secretary, fisher wives in Sunday dresses. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Neighbors, sitting in judgement. On their neighbor. 
To the neighbor.  The ramrod-still defendant. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Kabuo Miaymoto sat with the rigid grace of a Samurai warrior.  As if detached from his own trial. 
Ishmael writing on the pad balanced precariously on his knee, until... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Did he know how dangerous his demeanor could be?  With this jury. 
...it falls with a CLATTER of pages.  He reaches with his right hand, replaces the pad on his thigh.  Around him, CAMERAS are being swung to the ready.  Ishmael looks to see... 
...a slender WOMAN of refined beauty, entering the courtroom. A few flashes POP, and Ishmael's right hand retrieves a venerable box camera from beneath his seat, as his notepad falls once more, unheeded. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Hatsue Miyamoto had been without her husband for 77 days. 
Ishmael pivots, and we understand his struggle with the notepad. For he is forced to rest his camera on the stump of his amputated left arm, its empty sleeve pinned at the elbow. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) He was in jail.  When his baby son learned to walk. 
Through his VIEWFINDER, we see HATSUE take her place in the first row.  And sensing her presence, her husband turns.  Their eyes meet.  A string of FLASHES... 
But none from Ishmael.  He hesitates.  As if considering whether he will violate this woman's privacy.  The camera lowers.  HOLD on his face... 
INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - DAY 
MATCH CUT to Hatsue's face.  Staring, impassive, empty.  PULL BACK to see that she sits alone on a wooden bench by the courtroom door. Her hands rest delicately on the purse in her lap.  Her demeanor as removed from this place as is her husband's. 
HOOKS So, no...immediate suspicion, no...general talk of enmity between the two. 
MORAN These are fishermen, Alvin.  They don't talk at all to each other and less to me.  Specially gossip. 
EXT. DOCKS - DAY 
Ishmael walking down the sunlit wharf.  Purpose in his stride... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) A gill-netter works through black nights with only himself to talk to.  And learns to be silent. They were lonely men and products of geography. 
Up ahead, the Susan Marie has been brought to dock.  Moran stands chatting with a knot of six or seven FISHERMEN. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) ...men who, on occasion, realized that they wished to speak, but couldn't. 
As he arrives, Moran smiles a thin greeting.  Not happy to see him. Of course, neither is anyone else. 
MORAN Figure you'da heard by now. 
Ishmael shakes his head in silent helplessness.  WILLIAM GJOVAAG, a sunburned, big-bellied, tattooed gill-netter, clamps on his damp cigar butt. 
GJOVAAG You go fishing, it happens. 
ISHMAEL (to Moran) You see Susan Marie? 
MORAN I did.  Boy. 
ISHMAEL Three kids.  What's she going to do? 
GJOVAAG (disgusted) Well, what can she do?  Jesus Christ. 
ISHMAEL Excuse me, Gjovaag. 
GJOVAAG I don't need to excuse nothin'. Fuck you anyhow, Chambers. 
Everybody laughs.  It is all good-natured, sort of. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Like the Sheriff, I did not work the sea, and could never merit trust. Or respect. 
MARTY JOHANSSON Sheriff's been askin' which boats followed Carl out last night... 
MORAN (quickly) Only to see if somebody talked to him out th... 
ISHMAEL So who talked to him?  Out there. 
Staring.  At each other.  Eye contact holds during... 
JAN SORENSEN (heavy Danish) So far, we figured the guys who went to Ship Channel Bank, was Jim Ferry, Hardwell, Moulton, Miyamoto... 
GJOVAAG (spits) Japs. 
MORAN All right, look, if you see these boys... 
GJOVAAG Never saw you so hard-ass, Art. Ain't this just an accident? 
Moran finds his eyes drifting to Ishmael's.  Which are right there, waiting.  Moran looks away. 
MORAN Course it is, but a man's dead, William.  I got to write my report. 
ANGLE...Ishmael and Moran, walking alone back up the wharf.  The Sheriff is worried.  Finally... 
MORAN I'm not gonna see some article about an investigation, am I? 
ISHMAEL (quietly) You want me to lie? 
MORAN No, I wanna be off the damn record, that's what I want. 
No answer.  They keep walking. 
MORAN I mean, if there is a killer, why would you want him all alerted? 
Silence.  Silence.  And slowly... 
ISHMAEL Let's say...someday I need some cooperation from you on this thing. Do I get it? 
And looks over.  Like the guy holding all the aces. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Moran fidgets on the stand. 
NELS (O.S.) No sign of a struggle, you say. 
SEE him now.  NELS GUDMUNDSSON, attorney for Kabuo Miyamoto, stands beside his impassive client.  Nels is 79, blind in his left eye, a little shaky.  His body is winding down. 
MORAN Well, the coffee cup was layin' right in the middle of the floor, like I said.  And with a fella so neat as Carl, that did seem peculiar. 
And Nels begins to walk toward him.  Limping, as he comes. 
NELS As peculiar as a struggle between a 235 pound man, and an assailant strong enough to subdue him...that leaves only a single overturned cup in its wake? 
HOOKS (O.S.) Objection, asking the witness to speculate. 
NELS My gosh, Alvin, was I supposed to object every time you did that? 
A real.  Friendly smile. 
JUDGE (wearily) That's quite enough horseplay, Nels, why don't you act your age? 
NELS If I did that Your Honor, I'd be dead. 
Some gentle laughter.  Judge Fielding doesn't even bother to look annoyed. 
JUDGE Any more homely loveable tricks, and you'll be worse than that. Proceed, gentlemen. 
HOOKS There's an objection, Your H... 
JUDGE And it's overruled, answer the question.  If you can recall it. 
MORAN Maybe the assailant straightened the cabin.  And forgot the cup. 
NELS Right.  In the middle.  Of the floor. 
MORAN Maybe. 
ZENHICHI Elbow soft, or there is no follow- through.  You cut your bokken off from the power of your body, unl... 
WHAP!  WHAP!  WHAP!  The boy LASHES fiercely, the man parrying each stroke with blinding ease. 
ZENHICHI Hips sink more.  Less weight on the heels, so tha... 
CRASH!  The father has sent a blow in mid-word, FLINGING the child like a doll.  The boy BOUNCES up, snatching his bokken into ready position. 
ZENHICHI (very quiet) Zenshin.  Is constant awareness. Of dang... 
WHAP!  The child has unleashed a blow at the left side of his father's HEAD.  It has been blocked.  The staffs rest against each other, just above Zenhichi's ear.  There is no anger in either warrior.  That we can see. 
ZENHICHI Elbow soft.  A little better. 
LATER...father and son sit on the ground, eating a small meal. The sun has risen, angling light across the undulating fields. They are alone in beauty.  A long silence.  Dialogue in subtitled JAPANESE... 
ZENHICHI You can be good with the bokken. If you begin to concentrate. 
Eyes on his food.  As if alone, as if speaking to himself.  The boy darting glances, unseen, at his father's profile. 
ZENHICHI You must choose now, Kabuo.  At eight years.  If you want this. 
KABUO (boldly) I want it. 
The father keeps eating.  Never turns. 
ZENHICHI Then speak quietly.  So you may be heard. 
INT. COURTROOM - MORNING 
Whaley stares down the end of his needle-nose.  The air of disdain of a man playing chess with an unworthy opponent. 
NELS (O.S.) So this...foam you found in the lungs.  How does it get there? 
WHALEY As I testified.  It occurs when water, mucus and air are mixed by respiration.  I believe I said that. 
NELS (slightly confused) But a drowned person can't breathe. 
WHALEY Of course not.  The foam means that he went in breathing. 
Ah. 
WHALEY That's why the autopsy report identifies drowning as the cause of death. 
NELS Meaning that he wasn't murdered first, say on the deck of the boat, and then thrown overboard. 
WHALEY Well... 
NELS Your report says death by drowning, which means he went into the water alive and breathing.  And the report is accurate...? 
WHALEY (bristles) Of course it's accurate, but... 
NELS Of course, it is.  Now as to the head injury.  You say made by an object narrow and flat.  That is your inference, correct? 
WHALEY (really pissed) It's my job to infer, that's what coroners do.  You get hit with a crowbar, or a ball-peen hammer, or fall off a motorcycle, the injuries look different, that's my area of expertise. 
Nels nods.  He can be quiet now.  The witness distracted from volunteering the opinions Nels did not wish for. 
NELS In your motorcycle example.  Those injuries are produced by the head being propelled against an object. Rather than the reverse, yes? 
WHALEY Obviously. 
NELS Can you tell whether an object moved against the head, or the other way around?  Or would both look the same. 
WHALEY The same. 
NELS So if his head struck something narrow and flat, the gunnel of a boat, a net roller, a fairlead, could that have... 
WHALEY If the head was moving fast enough, but I don't see how it could be. 
NELS Is it possible? 
WHALEY Sure, anything's poss... 
NELS Is it fair to say that you do not know for certain which it was. 
WHALEY I already said that, b... 
NELS And that you can't say for certain whether the head injury was sustained before or after death? 
Whaley thinks. 
WHALEY For certain, no. 
NELS But you are certain that he died by drowning. 
WHALEY For the third time, yes. 
Nels nods.  Whaley is beyond frustrated. 
WHALEY Can I say something, here? 
NELS Yes, you can tell me about the minor cut you found on the deceased's right hand.  The report says 'recent origin'.  How recent?  As much as 24 hours before death? 
WHALEY Absolutely not.  Probably one or two hours.  Four at the most. 
A pause. 
NELS Are you absol... 
WHALEY Yes, I'm sure. 
Nels nods.  Silence. 
NELS Thank you, Horace.  No more questions. 
Horace wants to say more.  Doesn't immediately move. 
JUDGE We'll take our luncheon recess. Reconvene at...2 o'clock sharp. 
The gavel CRACKS onto the block.  Judge Fielding stands to leave, and the BAILIFF begins to usher the jury from its box.  Abel Martinson, the deputy, stands near as Kabuo rises.  As he puts his hand gently on Kabuo's arm, the defendant turns smoothly... 
...to face a woman.  Standing at the rail.  And beneath the courtroom buzz... 
MRS. SHIGEMURA No.  You must never look at a man directly.  This is part of grace. 
The girl smiles a small sour smile.  Speaks quietly... 
HATSUE I don't think the boys on this island.  Are impressed.  By grace. 
The old woman studies her without irritation. 
MRS. SHIGEMURA Hakujin know nothing of life, Hatsue. 
Apparently, the girl has heard this before. 
MRS. SHIGEMURA This is why they fear death.  Because life here is separate from Being. 
The girl takes a long pin.  Begins carefully to fasten her hair. Breaking eye contact with the mirror. 
MRS. SHIGEMURA It is why they have no soul. 
Is the girl even listening?  The old woman's voice never rises. Remains patient. 
MRS. SHIGEMURA Life embraces death, includes it. This truth brings tranquility.  You must see yourself... 
HATSUE ...as a leaf.  On a great tree. 
No irony in the girl's voice.  No disrespect.  The old woman reads the young face in the mirror. 
MRS. SHIGEMURA The pin.  Could be better placed. 
INT. SAN PIEDRO REVIEW - DAY 
CLOSE on 12-year-old Ishmael.  Neutral eyes.  Eating an apple.  A horrific CLANGING surrounds us.  The clash of metal on metal. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) My lessons came from my father.  They were different.  Or seemed so, at the time. 
See ARTHUR CHAMBERS now, at the printing press, an enormous lime green contraption, with rollers and conveyor pulleys in a cast- iron housing.  The shrieking of metal and gears recalls an ancient locomotive. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) He operated the Review alone, with an integrity and passion for principle that made him a figure of respect.  If slightly larger than life. 
Arthur is a large, rugged man, with round gun-metal rimmed spectacles and garters on his shirtsleeves.  He wears the soft, perpetual smile of an Oxford Don, as he gracefully ducks in and out of the machine, inspecting plates and printing cylinders. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) He never spoke of wanting me to succeed him.  And, in truth, it was the last job on earth I thought I'd ever want. 
The boy rises now.  Sets his apple carefully aside.  And under his father's supervision, takes his place operating the press.  His arms inches from the fearful clatter of the rollers. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) When I was five, he casually mentioned that if his sleeve got caught in the press, he'd be instantly popped open like a child's balloon, and splattered across the walls. 
Watch Ishmael running the monster, coolly, efficiently, with complete concentration. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Even his bones would disappear, to be discovered later on the floor, as strips of white confetti. 
Arthur turns away, lest his son feel a lack of confidence.  Picks up the boy's apple.  A crisp BITE. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Which, of course, made me certain that life would have no meaning until I could run that teakettle. 
EXT. MAIN STREET, AMITY HARBOR - SUNSET 
Arthur and Ishmael, now 17, strolling Main Street in the midst of what seems a festive carnival. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) He was, for better or worse, the only God in my life.  I guess it's our nature to resent those we know we can never measure up to... 
They are passing modest parade floats, booths with food and games. A genial crowd of farmers, fishermen, families, both races heedlessly mingling.  A community.  Arthur unselfconsciously slips his arm over the shoulder of his tall son. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) ...which keeps us from accepting the warmth.  The way we should. 
Up ahead, a crowd has gathered at the steps of the courthouse. Something's up. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Every summer, after harvest, the Strawberry Festival was Dad's favor- ite story to cover.  Good news was his preference.  Making him an oddity among journalists. 
As we approach, we see a ceremony begin at the top of the courthouse steps. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Highlight was crowning the Strawberry Princess.  Always a Japanese girl, sort of an unwitting virgin sacrifice to the concept of racial harmony. 
We are there now.  Arthur pulling down the same box camera Ishmael would use years later.  Focusing up at the MAYOR, as he places the crown on the radiant young girl... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Senior Year.  It was Hatsue. 
And as the applause ripples through the crowd.  As the Strawberry Princess acknowledges her subjects, her eye falls on... 
...Ishmael.  She drops him a wink.  And a special wave. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) She winked at me.  In public. Which was unusual. 
EXT. SOUTH BEACH - DAY 
Two 14-year-olds alone on a beach.  Digging for clams in the mud. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I had kissed her once, when we were ten.  Looking at fish through a glass-bottomed box.  It was just an impulse, and no big deal. 
Ishmael pulls back from the deep hole, to make room for Hatsue to reach down.  We can see her fingers explore the shell of the dug-in geoduck clam. 
HATSUE He's still got a good grip.  We need to dig more. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) At school, she kept mostly to the Japanese kids, and sort of ignored me.  As if all of our times alone together...in the hollow cedar, everywhere...were a secret. 
They are digging now, together.  Carefully. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I told myself that was good.  That it made our friendship special.  And didn't mean she was ashamed of it. Necessarily. 
HATSUE Easy.  Slow is best. 
Gently, she begins to dislodge the clam from its lair. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I thought about her.  Sometimes, all the time.  I knew I was unhappy. But I knew if I told her... 
She lifts it clear.  And as she admires its size and roughness with her fingertips.  As she washes it in the shallows.  He watches her movements. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) It might be a mistake.  I could never correct. 
ISHMAEL (quietly) I like you. 
The words make her turn.  Not startled, exactly.  Alerted.  But neutral, without affect. 
ISHMAEL Do you know what I mean, Hatsue? I've always liked you. 
ETTA Is that your third question? 
NELS It is. 
ETTA You done your math right. 
The old man wears a thin, cold smile. 
NELS You, too.  No further questions. 
HOLD on Kabuo.  As he watches Etta rise heavily from the box. 
EXT. DEEP FOREST - FIRST LIGHT 
Mist of moments before dawn.  As tendrils part, there is enough light to see... 
...eyes.  They are Asian.  They are razor-keen.  PULL BACK to reveal... 
...Kabuo alone in G.I. gear and helmet.  Rifle up high, sweat on his face, moving soundlessly, turning in a circle as he goes, until... 
...he stops.  A heartbeat of silence.  Then... 
...the BLAST of automatic tracer TEARS through trees, as he WHIRLS and RETURNS FIRE in a single motion, until... 
Silence. 
His heart is pounding.  He waits.  Waits.  Weapon at the ready, he pushes THROUGH the dense foliage to see... 
...the 15-year-old German SOLDIER, splayed on the forest floor, his chest torn and bloodied.  Kabuo's gaze LOCKS with the boy's.  The young soldier's empty left hand reaches out in a a plea, and as Kabuo steps forward, the boy's right hand comes suddenly... 
...INTO view, metal GLINTING in motion, as Kabuo... 
...BLOWS the boy AWAY with staccato rifle BURSTS that JUMP the already-lifeless body like an electric jolt.  And falling from the kid's hand, not a pistol, but... 
...ID TAGS. 
No expression on Kabuo's face.  None at all.  He moves on. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
OLE JURGENSEN wobbles slightly in the witness box, hands resting on the cane planted unsteadily between his frail legs.  His eyes leak water, his beard is wispy and unkempt. 
HOOKS Were those his exact words? 
OLE (shaky) He say Mrs. Heine robbed him. Mr. Heine never woulda let no such ting like that hap... 
HOOKS Robbed.  He was angry. 
OLE Oh, yeh.  He said someday he would get his land back. 
Hooks nodding.  Nodding. 
HOOKS Mr. Jurgensen.  Did he offer to buy the seven acres from you? 
OLE Oh, yeh.  But this is nine year ago, I had my healt, I wasn't wantin' to sell. 
HOOKS And then your stroke came this summer.  And you put your property on the market, I believe you said September 7.  Which, remember, is eight days before Carl Heine died. And who comes Spetember 7, wanting to buy? 
OLE Carl Heine came. 
Hooks pauses.  Lets that sink in. 
HOOKS But Carl was a fisherman.  And successful at it. 
OLE He said he didn't want that life no more.  He'd been saving to buy a farm.  He was sorry I got sick. But pretty excited to get back his father's place. 
The old man's head bobs.  Recalling. 
OLE Liesel and me.  Was happy for him. 
Hooks smiles.  As if he would be happy, too.  Anyone would be. 
HOOKS And later, that same day.  Only eight days before Carl Heine died. Did another prospective buyer appear? 
EXT. FARMHOUSE PORCH - DAY 
Ole sits in a wicker chair at a wicker table.  His wife LIESEL is setting out cold drinks.  But their visitor stands rigid, disbelieving. 
LIESEL I'm sorry to tell you, we took his earnest money, he shook Ole's hand. Come November, he'll sell his boat, and take over the farm. 
Kabuo is thunderstruck. 
KABUO But your sign... 
OLE We din't have no time to take it down. He just come ten o'clock. 
Kabuo nods.  His voice is soft, but his eyes are steel. 
KABUO It's my fault.  I should have come earlier. 
He looks so odd, perhaps he's ill.  Liesel looks concerned. 
OLE If you want t'buy them seven acres.  Carl Heine's the only fella can sell 'em. 
INT. COURTROOM - EVENING 
The witness box is empty.  The snow outside the windows is falling in darkness.  And Judge Lew Fielding is leaning his frame toward the jurors... 
JUDGE I apologize for keeping you folks from your families in a storm like this.  I do hope you'll be reasonably comfortable in the hotel tonight.  And one more thing... 
He smiles softly. 
JUDGE This Court takes judicial notice of the fact that tomorrow is the 13th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
Slight pause.  To make sure they are listening. 
JUDGE Which has no relationship to this trial.  Which is why I mention it. 
Gavel CRACKS down. 
JUDGE 10 o'clock tomorrow, folks.  Stay warm. 
INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - MINUTES LATER 
Reaches stiffly.  Kabuo bends toward him.  Accepts the flame. Takes a puff. 
NELS Prosecutor thinks.  What was your reason?  To kill Carl Heine. 
Kabuo says not a word. 
NELS Well, there is the land itself. Raise your children where you were raised.  Sleep with your wife at night, 'stead of bein' alone on the sea. 
Brings the match to his own cigar.  Careful.  Expert. 
NELS There's fairness and honor.  You were cheated by that old bitch. Boy, she is something. 
KABUO (simply) She's not alone. 
Worlds within those words. 
NELS (a murmur) None of us are. 
And in those. 
NELS And prejudice, like you say.  Your people locked in a concentration camp.  You go off to fight for our country's freedom.  Come back to this. 
Shakes his head. 
NELS But Mr. Hooks has missed the one reason.  One reason.  You coulda done it. 
A flicker.  Behind the defendant's eyes. 
NELS I read you Etta Heine's deposition. So I could watch your mind.  Like I do when you move your rook, or when I move mine. 
A smile now.  Very kind.  Very sad. 
NELS And you weren't thinking about her. Or about land.  Or about you. 
No, you weren't.  And in the gentlest voice... 
NELS No, someone cheats you, you can rise above that.  You're a family man.  You put them ahead of you, hmmn? 
He sighs.  But... 
NELS Wasn't you she dishonored. 
And the old watering eyes are rock steady now. 
NELS Your father was a strong and tireless man.  Honest to a fault. Kind, and humble as well... 
There is a silence.  And then... 
KABUO (real quiet) Nice.  When two fellas.  Understand each other. 
They let that sit. 
NELS Now this jury is gonna be lookin' at the evidence with one eye. And at you with the oth... 
KABUO Mr. Gudmundsson, we know what that jury is looking at. 
He won't let hs eyes lie to this man. 
NELS Your father needs you.  To return to your family. 
Silence. 
NELS So every time you think about showing that jury strength.  Or honor or composure.  Or dignity. 
KABUO I should show them an American? 
Nels sees the rage.  It breaks his heart.  It makes him feel old and helpless. 
NELS Show them an innocent man. 
What he stares at now.  Is a neutral mask.  As powerful and opaque as the voice is quiet. 
KABUO Shame you couldn't play chess with my dad, sir.  He'd kick your ass. 
INT. ISHMAEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Through glass, snow is tumbling in endless cascades, the world dwarfed by a descending heaven.  A sound, a strange soft CLICK. PAN across... 
...the small, well-kept bachelor apartment.  Neat stacks of books on the floor, catching the overflow of shelves crammed full. Someone likes to read.  Another soft CLICK.  To... 
...the kitchen now, along the floor.  An awkward high-top SHOE, its buckled straps above elastic LACES that fasten across the instep. The shoe steps on a crude wooden PEDAL.  And we hear another CLICK. PAN up along a vertical strip of mesh WIRE to... 
...a plywood CONTRAPTION, held by a partially closed drawer.  A piece of spring steel holding a set of NAIL CLIPPERS. 
Ishmael inserts his pinkie carefully.  CLICK.  Finishes clipping the fingernails of his only hand.  And looks out.  At the magic of white. 
EXT. HOLLOW CEDAR - DAY 
Safe within their haven, the 18-year-olds kiss and hold each other urgently.  Their tongues exploring each other's mouth, her legs open beneath her skirt, pressing her body up against him. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I gave her all of my soul to love. I knew someday we would live in France.  Italy.  Somewhere.  Far from the things that upset her. 
ANGLE...later, they lie so quietly.  Her head nestled in the crook of his arm, he gently plays with her hair.  Her face so still, so thoughtful and grave. 
ISHMAEL (a murmur) You don't have to be so tragic, you know. 
Ah.  Her dark eyes flicker. 
HATSUE (dry) Kind of magical, the way you know how to comfort a girl. 
She cuts the irony by sending her fingertips to stroke his. 
HATSUE I can just feel my spirits soar. 
ISHMAEL Well, I don't do it for just anybody. 
And kisses her head.  But her eyes still stare off into the tangle of her worries.  He draws a breath... 
ISHMAEL There can't be any wrong in this, Ha... 
HATSUE I lie to my parents every day. And every night. 
His light tone against the fear... 
AGENT These are real nice things. They'll take special care of 'em. 
Hisao sees his wife's sudden alarm.  And, as respectfully as he can manage... 
HISAO The flute is precious.  The kimono, the music.  Must you take th... 
AGENT ...oh yeh, any old country stuff, we have to take. 
And sees on the sofa, an open album.  Strolls over. 
FUJIKO This is only my daughter's scrapbook.  For her memories. 
So he picks it up.  Doesn't see Hatsue stiffen with repulsion, as he wanders, thumbing through it, toward the hallway... 
AGENT (calling out) Wilson?  Don't go pawing through the underwear! 
And chuckles.  He knows they appreciate a joke.  It means there's nothing to be afraid of.  Stops turning pages now.  Looks up, his eyes moving until they find Hatsue. 
AGENT Strawberry Princess, huh?  You musta been flattered by that. Looks just like y... 
The soft slamming of a screen door.  Another AGENT, large and shambling in his too-small suit, is carrying a crate.  And a telling look. 
AGENT #2 (quiet triumph) Dynamite.  Twenty-four sticks. 
And the crate BANGS onto the table.  Just beside the kimono.  Lifts out two sticks and holds them high.  Proof. 
HISAO You must believe.  This for tree stumps.  For clearing land. 
The small man's smile fades now.  First time.  And his eyes fix Hisao before he speaks.  As if reading his mind. 
AGENT Maybe.  Maybe.  But this is still bad, y'see. 
Fujiko slips her hand into her husband's.  To give him strength. 
AGENT It's illegal contraband, you were s'posed to turn this stuff in. We, uh... 
Slight shrug. 
AGENT We gotta arrest you.  Have to take you to Seattle. 
Fujiko's breath catches.  One of the daughters whimpers.  The silence hangs thick and frightening.  The bigger agent unhooks a pair of handcuffs from his belt, but... 
AGENT Naw, you don't need those.  Mister Eee-ma-da-san here is a class act, a real gentleman. 
The younger girls are crying now, clinging to their sisters.  The agent regrets this. 
FUJIKO Please, reconsider.  He has done no bad th... 
AGENT Well, nobody knows that yet, do they?  So, best for an honest man to clear his name for godd and all. 
Ain't that right? 
AGENT Only a few questions in Seattle, okay?  Few questions, few answers, the whole thing is over. 
He puts his hand on Hisao's arm.  Not roughly, but much firmer than the ease of his voice... 
AGENT Simple as that. 
INT. FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Eight pages of a letter, carefully written in Kanji characters, folded neatly on a table. 
FUJIKO (O.S.) Why do I read you this distres- sing letter?  From your father. From this hakujin...work camp, it is called.  In Montana. 
PULL BACK to see mother and five daughters around the table.  Even the youngest girls somber, attentive.  As if they have aged these past few weeks. 
FUJIKO Because you need to know the darkness.  In the hearts of the hakuj... 
HATSUE (blurts) Not all of them. 
The silent wake of her outburst, her interruption, lingers.  Her mother studies her. 
FUJIKO The whites are enslaved by their egos, Hatsue.  Each believes his aloneness is everything.  We seek union wi... 
HATSUE ...the ones seeking union with the Greater Life bombed Pearl Harbor. They are not humble.  I am not part of them, I'm part of here. 
Her voice so loud, so insistent.  Her sisters are afraid for her. To have shown such disrespect.  They look down at their hands.  Or away, as if not hearing. 
FUJIKO (quietly, slowly) I see this.  This lack of purity is a mist around your soul.  I see it every day, it haunts your face in unguarded moments. 
The room is still as the grave.  The mother's eyes burn silently. 
FUJIKO I see it in your eagerness to leave here.  And walk the woods. In the afternoon. 
What does she know?  Hatsue's heart pounding.  And to her surprise, her mother's voice softens... 
FUJIKO If you lose your true self, Hatsue. True self... 
The stern warning, the unrelenting judgement, has become a plea. 
FUJIKO There is no way back. 
INT. ISHMAEL'S KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Ishmael washing his supper plate.  His fork and knife.  His coffee mug.  His skillet.  Hard labor with one hand.  And as he works, he looks at... 
...the window above his sink.  Darkness and moonlit snow.  And his own reflection.  CLOSE on his face in the glass, and MATCH DISSOLVE to... 
INT. SAN PIEDRO REVIEW - NIGHT 
...Arthur Chambers.  Weary.  Worn behind the smile of knowing ease, as he sips coffee from a mug of his own. 
His boy sits across from him in the silent press room.  Feet up, reading their paper.  Its headline, ISLAND JAPANESE ACCEPT ARMY MANDATE TO MOVE. 
ISHMAEL See, you bring it on yourself. 23 ladies honored by the PTA, you single out three names.  And they're all Japanese.  That isn't journalism. 
ARTHUR (quietly) Because...? 
Ishmael has heard this gently prodding word all his life.  He sighs. 
ISHMAEL Because journalism.  Is just the facts. 
ARTHUR Which facts?  You can't print them all.  Journalism is balance. Finding the facts folks need to know. 
...a cluster of white islanders gawking as their Japanese neighbors file toward the ferry.  A middle-aged woman waves to Fujiko, who casts her eyes down, refusing to acknowledge the greeting.  And just as they reach the gangway... 
...Hatsue sees Ishmael, who stands at an unobtrusive distance, among a group of students.  She pauses.  Her eyes hold his for a heartbeat... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) ...with some exceptions. 
The wisp of a smile.  And she is gone. 
EXT. IMADA FRONT PORCH - NIGHT 
Hatsue comes alone onto the white-blanketed porch.  Snow is no longer falling.  She takes out a cigarette, lights it impassively. The mannerisms make her seem fully American, despite the porcelain impenetrability of her Asian exterior.  She closes her eyes, and... 
...draws deep on the smoke.  The act seems to cause her pain.  When the eyes open, they are frightened, unguarded.  Nowhere to turn. The next puff looks desperate, and she FLIPS the cigarette out onto the snow.  Jams her hands in the pockets of her parka, stamps her feet against the cold, the helplessness.  And looks out... 
...strawberry fields, endless and white, shimmering in filtered moonlight, become... 
EXT. MANZANAR INTERNMENT CAMP - NIGHT 
...a moonlit DESERT.  PAN the barbed wire, the distant barracks, the desolation.  Come to... 
...two women walking alone.  The younger one glancing at her mother as they go.  Fujiko's eyes unreadable, stare implacably ahead. The barracks, everything, in distance behind them. 
HATSUE You think we're far enough away now? 
No sarcasm in the voice.  She lets the words carry her irony. Her mother stops.  Looks at her so directly, so strong.  Even her tough-minded daughter flinches slightly. 
HATSUE Mom, whatever this is, they don't keep war secrets this carefully. 
Fujiko thinks that over.  Nods. 
FUJIKO Secrets are hard to keep. 
She goes over to a large, flat rock.  Sits down.  Pulls two sheets of paper from her coat.  And waits.  As her daughter comes and crouches at her feet.  Fujiko clears her throat. 
FUJIKO This letter.  Was opened. By mistake. 
And watches.  As the shard of fear penetrates her daughter's mask. Silence.  Then... 
FUJIKO (reads) 'My love.  I still go to our cedar tree in the afternoons every day.  I shut my eyes, waiting.' 
Hatsue has turned to stone.  To ice.  Wind blows. 
FUJIKO (reads) 'I smell your smell.  And I dream of you.  And I ache for you to come home.  So I can hold you and feel you near.' 
Fujiko scans the page silently.  Turns to the second... 
FUJIKO (reads) 'After all these years that we've been together, I find you're a part of me.  Without you, I have nothing.  All my love, forever...' 
And looks up.  Her eyes calm, quiet. 
FUJIKO The neighborhood boy.  Who taught you to swim? 
The look holds.  And holds. 
HATSUE You shouldn't have opened that. It was mi... 
FUJIKO (so quiet) How deceitful of me. 
Anger only at the edges.  Like finely-honed steel. 
FUJIKO How can I ever hope.  For your forgiveness. 
The wind swirls a cloud of dust between them.  They seem not to notice. 
FUJIKO I have written this letter to the boy's parents... 
She pulls out a single page.  Hands it down to her daughter. Hatsue's eyes move quickly over the words. 
FUJIKO Attraction is no crime, certainly among children.  The dishonor lies in the concealment.  From your families. 
Watches her daughter reading.  And quietly... 
FUJIKO I know that you know this.  I know you have suffered.  Even if the hakujin could not. 
Silence.  Hatsue's eyes cast down.  She folds the page. 
FUJIKO There will be no further letters. No contact of any k... 
And stops.  Because Hatsue is TEARING the page in two.  She looks up.  Into her mother's shock. 
HATSUE One more letter.  I will write it.  You may read it, and send it for me. 
Her mother's anger fades.  Into interest. 
HATSUE I deceived more than you.  I deceived this sweet boy.  And myself.  It was never love. 
Never love.  The mother's face changes.  There is understanding, acceptance.  Even pride. 
HATSUE I will work hard.  To earn your forgiveness. 
A sigh.  A sadness deep, beyond her years. 
HATSUE I can never hope for his. 
INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT 
Mother and daughter enter their crude quarters.  They find Hatsue's sisters sitting on the wooden floor, watching... 
...a team of young MEN, working with tools and pieces of lumber. One is building shelves, two others, a chest of drawers.  Their leader kneels tacking scraps of tin over the knotholes on the floor.  One girl beams at her mother... 
SUMIKO These boys are buildings us a mansion! 
The leader grins and rises.  Bows slightly to Fujiko.  He is, of course... 
KABUO I'm Kabuo Miyamoto, Mrs. Imada. 
The woman smiles.  Bows slightly in return. 
FUJIKO We are in your debt, Miyamoto-san. How are your parents, your family...? 
KABUO My father is sick with the camp food.  The rest of us are fine. Don't speak of dept, please, we just want to help. 
And glances.  To the eldest daughter.  In the doorway. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) It was all I could think of to say. 
His eyes squeeze shut. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) There was nothing more to say. For a long while. 
INT. KABUO'S CELL - LATE NIGHT 
CLOSE on a dark blue suit.  Clean shirt.  Hanging on a hook against the green wall.  PAN ACROSS the bars in the cell door's tiny window.  All is dark out there, and silent.  Here... 
...the bare bulb glows.  Its light throws shadows of castles and horses across the chessboard. 
Kabuo cross-legged on the floor, alone.  His back erect.  His eyes calm.  Stare at the pieces. 
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 
Kabuo at 19 sits on the earth.  By a shovel.  By a lantern.  This place is shielded by trees.  PAN across the ground to... 
...his father.  Slowly, reverently, placing objects into burlap sacks, beside a shallow hole in the earth.  Wooden swords, hakama pants, a bokken, scrolls written with care.  Dialogue plays in subtitled JAPANESE... 
ZENHICHI Your great-grandfather was a samurai, a magnificent soldier. 
The father never looks at the son.  Only at his work. 
ZENHICHI He killed himself.  On the battlefield.  At Kumamoto. 
The boy knows this.  Yet his entire being is focused on every word. 
ZENHICHI He went to battle with a sword. Against rifles, mind you.  Knowing what honor required. 
An elegant SWORD.  Its curved blade gleaming in the lantern light. 
ZENHICHI He was angry.  To the point of being crazy, yes.  But he knew what honor.  Required. 
A separate sack, just for this.  Folded with respect. 
ZENHICHI Honor can require loyalty. Revenge.  Death. 
It goes into the ground.  With the others.  He seems nearly overcome now.  By some emotion that sweeps through him.  Prompting the boy to murmur... 
KABUO These are safe, father.  The hakujin will never f... 
ZENHICHI (quietly) ...it is the only scale... 
Meaning, be still.  So the boy is still. 
ZENHICHI Only scale.  In which our worth. Is weighed. 
The man gazes into the hole.  At his treasures. 
ZENHICHI Every life ends.  And if it ends dishonored.  It is as if... 
And turns to his son.  To complete the words. 
KABUO (in English) ...we have never lived. 
There is love.  There is strength.  There is no more to say. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Sheriff Moran sits in the witness box, blade-thin and fidgeting ever so slightly.  Uncomfortable in the limelight.  In his hands are four pieces of ROPE. 
MORAN Well, this one here comes off Miyamoto's boat.  Matches all his others, worn equal and so on.  But this one here... 
Holds it up for Hooks.  So the jury can see. 
MORAN ...comes off third cleat from the stern, port side.  And it's brand new.  Unlike the rest. 
HOOKS And the next one...? 
MORAN From Carl Heine's boat.  All his were like this one, three-strand manila, new condition, braided in loops.  Not bowlined like Miyamoto's. 
HOOKS And the last...? 
MORAN Found on Carl's boat, too.  Starboard side, second cleat from the stern. But it doesn't match Carl's lines. It matches Miyamoto's.  perfect. 
Ah.  Hooks nods.  Significant. 
HOOKS So if defendant had tied up to deceased's boat.  With that last one.  Would those cleats have lined up? 
MORAN You bet.  And if Miyamoto there had been in a hurry to cast off, he coulda left this line behind on Carl's boat. 
HOOKS And replaced it later with the new one.  That's your inference? 
MORAN Pretty darn clear. 
I see.  Hooks begins to pace.  Toward the jury. 
HOOKS And when you visited defendant on his boat.  The evening after Carl Heine's death.  Did it seem pretty darn clear to him? 
EXT. THE ISLANDER - NIGHT 
Kabuo kneeling at the battery well of his boat.  He is sliding a new BATTERY into place.  Beside its older companion.  He bolts it down.  Starts his engine.  He is visibly tense.  As he steps onto the deck, he sees... 
...two figures at the pilings.  Sheriff Moran makes a cutting motion across his throat, as Abel moves to grasp the mooring line. 
MORAN Cut your engine, we're coming aboard. 
Kabuo doesn't move.  The tension has fled beneath the surface.  His face now a mask. 
KABUO What for, Sheriff? 
MORAN We have a warrant.  To search your boat. 
He holds it up.  Abel looks uneasy, as if expecting anything. 
KABUO Well, what are you looking f... 
MORAN (calmly) A murder weapon.  We think you might be responsible for the death of Carl Heine. 
Kabuo blinks.  As if hearing a foreign language.  Words that do not compute. 
KABUO Sheriff, if somebody killed Carl, it sure as hell wasn't me. 
NELS And the blood could not have belonged to defendant.  Seeing that his type is O negative. 
DR. WHITMAN That's obvious. 
NELS You scraped the dried blood from the butt of the gaff.  Where a fella's hand goes.  And what did you see under your microscope, besides the B positive blood and the wood scrapings...? 
And the witness stops.  A curious question.  But Nels is waiting. With an expectant smile. 
DR. WHITMAN Bits of blood and wood.  What else would there be? 
NELS No bits of bone, no particles of scalp, no strands of hair? 
DR. WHITMAN None. 
NELS Well, if the blood got onto the gaff by crushing a man's skull... 
DR. WHITMAN I'm a hemotologist, sir, I was asked only t... 
NELS (gently persistent) ...would that seem logical? 
DR. WHITMAN I don't know. 
NELS You don't. 
Nels lifts the gaff off the table.  Looks at it. 
NELS The coroner testified that Carl Heine had a cut.  A fresh cut. Probably one or two hours old. 
And grasps the butt end.  Of the gaff. 
NELS On the palm.  Of his right hand. 
Walks, dragging one leg just slightly, toward the box.  And holding the butt of the gaff toward him... 
NELS With no bone or scalp or hair present.  Would it be more probable that the blood came from crushing a man's skull... 
DR. WHITMAN I'm a hemotologist, not a detective. 
NELS ...or from the cut on his hand. Which is more probable? 
Whitman won't be badgered.  His smile carries only a trace of coldness... 
DR. WHITMAN It is not my function.  To weigh those probabilities. 
Nels looks him over. 
NELS You're right. 
And turns his back.  Walks away. 
NELS ...that's the jury's job. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Hooks in pin-stripe serge today.  Pommaded hair, glossy wing-tips. He is crisp. 
HOOKS Now this regiment you were training, the 442nd, this was all Nisei boys... 
First Sergeant VICTOR MAPLES wears his green dress uniform, splashed with decorations.  Thick and powerful, no neck, razor cut. The eyes are alive. 
MAPLES They were Japanese-American boys, yes sir. 
HOOKS And you were generally experienced in training men for hand-to-hand combat. 
MAPLES It was my specialty, sir, I trained several thousand over the years. 
HOOKS So.  Wide cross-section of men to evaluate.  And the day that the defendant volunteered for this... demonstration.  Did you find him eager? 
MAPLES More than eager.  He was out to make a point. 
Hooks finds that interesting.  Begins to pace. 
HOOKS And what point.  Was that. 
EXT. TRAINING FIELD, CAMP SHELBY, MISSISSIPPI - DAY 
The squad of Nisei recruits, one hundred young Asian faces, surround Sgt. Maples.  He paces before them, holding up a wooden staff, looking in their eyes... 
MAPLES Anyone. 
And Kabup steps forward.  Bows slightly.  Then salutes... 
KABUO SIR! 
Maples stares.  Hard. 
MAPLES You don't salute me, you don't call me 'sir', soldier, I'm an enlisted man. 
Kabuo stares back.  Blank. 
MAPLES And nobody bows in this man's Army, you're in America, son. Not Japan. 
KABUO I'm sorry, sir, force of habit. 
MAPLES No more 'sir'.  That's the last of that. 
Tosses Kabuo a wooden staff and a helmet.  A little hard.  As Kabuo slips the helmet on... 
MAPLES The exercise is avoiding thrusts. Now, first y... 
KABUO (quietly) Ready, sergeant. 
Cut off in mid-word, Maples glares back.  Are you?  THRUSTS sharply, but Kabuo moves just enough to slip the blow by no more than an inch.  Their eyes lock.  Suddenly, Maples unleashes... 
...a SAVAGE series of THRUSTS at blinding SPEED, and Kabuo... 
...SLIPS them all effortlessly, scarcely seeming to move.  As a man might toy with a child.  Maples studies the face for any trace of mockery.  And sees nothing at all.  STABS out, only to have Kabuo... 
...SLASH Maples' staff from his grasp, with a move so quick as to be nearly invisible.  Maples clearly STUNNED by the display. 
KABUO (quietly) Excuse me. 
He bends, picks up Maples' staff, hands it to him.  And bows. Slightly.  The sergeant is hot.  He looks into the faces of this Nisei regiment, searching for a single smirk.  There is none. 
Nels is nodding.  Nodding. 
NELS I guess you'd have to guess. Not having been there with them. Having to guess whether your husband's report was word for word accurate. 
SUSAN MARIE Carl never lied. 
NELS Of course not.  But it was emotional.  A friend's plea set against his mother's attitude. 
And then.  As if it had just occurred to him... 
NELS Those 'dirty looks'.  Defendant ever aim one of those at you? 
SUSAN MARIE He had no reason to. 
NELS Carl ever say he got one? 
SUSAN MARIE I can't speak for him. 
NELS You can speak for what he said. Just like you did for Mr. Hooks... 
HOOKS (O.S.) Objection, badgering the wi... 
CLICK.  All the lights in the courtroom go OUT.  A loud murmur.  A FLICKER of light.  Then, they go OUT again. 
The crowd BUZZES, laughs, the gavel RAPS.  The lights come ON.  A collective sound of relief.  The gavel AGAIN.  Finally, silence. 
NELS Sorry about that, Mrs. Heine. Shall I repeat the ques... 
SUSAN MARIE Carl said he didn't like Kabuo much anymore. 
A silence.  A deep one. 
NELS The question is more about the defendant's attitu... 
SUSAN MARIE That's all he said. 
She arches her throat. 
SUSAN MARIE And we can't ask him anymore. 
INT. ISHMAEL'S DESOTO, CENTER VALLEY - TWILIGHT 
Ishmael driving an aged DeSoto through the blanketed strawberry fields of Center Valley. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) My father had bought the DeSoto fifteen years before.  Driving it reminded me of him.  Which I considered a neutral fact... 
He turns the wheel, using a cherry wood knob, specially mounted for his convenience. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Actually, it was pleasant. 
Following the curve, fields are pure white to the horizon. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Snow made all the fields into one. The notion that one man might kill another for a small patch, made no sense. 
Up ahead, a Willys station wagon has run into a ditch.  A middle aged Japanese man is working at a rear wheel with a shovel. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) But I knew such things occurred. Having been to war and all. 
The man is Hisao Imada, and we can now see his eldest daughter working with a shovel behind the car.  Ishmael pulls up behind them.  And gets out. 
He crunches over to where Hisao works... 
ISHMAEL May I give you folks a lift? 
Hatsue has come around the car now, pulling her snowflaked hair from her eyes. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I didn't look at her.  I thought that would be best. 
Her eyes on Ishmael's profile, Hatsue goes to her father's side. Murmurs to him in Japanese.  WHen he answers, she turns to face Ishmael... 
HATSUE My father is grateful for your kindness.  But he will free his car, shortly. 
Ishmael smiles softly.  This car isn't going anywhere.  He goes to Hatsue, reaching gently for her shovel. 
ISHMAEL Okay, I'll help. 
INT. DESOTO, SOUTH BEACH DRIVE - TWILIGHT 
Ishmael drives with Hisao beside him. 
ISHMAEL I know it's caused you trouble. But don't you think the snow is beautiful, coming down? 
His eyes flick to Hatsue in the rearview mirror.  She stares out the side window, concentrating on the world.  Two strands of wet hair pasted against her cheek. 
HISAO Yes, very beautiful. 
Suddenly, her eyes SNAP to meet Ishmael's in the mirror.  His dart away.  Hers hold. 
HATSUE This trial is unfair.  You should write about that in your newspaper. 
He keeps driving.  And he keeps his eyes on the road. 
ISHMAEL (calmly) What should I say? 
HATSUE Just that.  This trial is wrong, they are calling a good man a killer. It is only about prejudice, and that is unfair. 
He thinks.  As he drives.  Hisao Imada silent beside him. 
ISHMAEL We all expect the world to be fair. As if we have some right t... 
HATSUE I don't mean everyone.  Just people who can do things because they can arrest people or convict them.  Or run a newspaper. 
And his eyes come up.  Meet hers in the mirror. 
ISHMAEL Maybe I should write a column. What do you think? 
She studies his face. 
HATSUE What do you think? 
No smile.  On either side. 
ISHMAEL I think people.  Should be fair. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Some seaman's loast report. Stuffed in a cabinet, good as lost forever.  No one knows. 
Ishmael rises, stiffly.  Starts to pull on his coat. 
LEVANT You get what you come for? 
And Ishmael looks at the youngster.  A little oddly.  Admits... 
ISHMAEL Guess I'm not completely sure. What that was. 
EXT. FLETCHER'S BAY - MORNING 
Ishmael at 24, crouched among trees.  Above a sunlit stretch of beach. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I left the grocery, and wrote a letter.  I apologizes from my heart. I should never have said that word to her.  I never would again. 
CLOSE on his face.  Eyes gazing down.  At something. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) It sat in my desk for two weeks. Before I threw it away. 
He sighs.  Rises slowly. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I knew her car.  And sometimes when I'd see it, I'd...drive that way.  At a distance. 
See Hatsue down on the beach.  Alone, raking for steamer clams. Her baby beside her on a blanket, beneath an umbrella. 
Ishmael walks down to the sand.  Crosses to where she works.  And squats down.  At a respectful distance. 
ISHMAEL Can I talk to you? 
She must have seen who was coming.  Because the words do not startle her.  Or slow her work. 
HATSUE I'm married, Ishmael.  It isn't right for us to be alone.  People will t... 
ISHMAEL There's no one here, and I've got to talk to you. 
Her back is to him.  She is motionless. 
ISHMAEL Don't you owe me that? 
And she turns.  Her eyes go first to her sleeping child.  Then she walks over, and sinks to the sand.  Just before him.  Near enough to touch. 
She looks in his eyes.  And waits. 
ISHMAEL I'm like a dying person. 
The words just came out.  His eyes move over her face.  His aching for her is naked, beyond his ability to cope. 
ISHMAEL I don't sleep.  I tell myself this can't go on, but it goes on anyway. 
He seems at the edge of insanity.  Or tears. 
HATSUE I did a terrible thing, Ishmael. I knew what you felt.  And what I didn't. 
Sadness in her voice.  But strength as well. 
HATSUE And I never found the courage to tell you. 
His eyes swim with tears.  He chokes them back, he has to. 
ISHMAEL You'll think this is crazy, but all I want is to hold you.  Just once. And smell your hair. 
She absorbs this.  No sign of repulsion or anger.  Her eyes seem wise.  And very sad. 
HATSUE You have to hear this, I can never touch you, Ishmael.  Not once, not ever.  There's no half- way.  As much as I know it hurts you, you have to let this go. 
ISHMAEL Look, I want to forget you, I do. I think if you hold me, just this once, I can walk away and never speak to you again. 
She just keeps looking at him.  There is a bravery to her steady gaze.  Her calm resolve. 
ISHMAEL Please?  As one human being to another, just because I'm miserable and don't know where to turn.  I need to be in your arms.  If it's just for thirty seconds. 
His pleading look holds her for a moment.  In the silence... 
HATSUE I hurt for you.  Whether you'll ever believe that or not. 
Feeling behind her eyes.  First time she lets it show. 
HATSUE I feel sick sometimes, with the guilt of what I've done to you. And I can't make it right. 
She rises slowly.  Brushes the sand from her skirt. 
HATSUE To hold you would be wrong and deceitful.  You're going to have to live without holding me, that is the truth of the way things are. 
She takes one step back. 
HATSUE Things end.  They do.  Get on with your life. 
And turns away.  She gathers her baby in her arms.  Takes her blanket, her umbrella, her rake and her pail.  He watches, never moving, as she gathers her things.  Gathers them as if he wasn't there.  And with her back turned... 
HATSUE Get on with your life. 
She walks slowly away.  Her baby cries. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
CLOSE on a steaming soup kettle, resting on a woodstove.  A woman's hand stirs with a wooden ladle.  PULL BACK to see... 
HELEN CHAMBERS, slender and strong and keen.  She is not yet 60.  A code of fairness and self-reliance is written on the fine-boned features. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) I drove from the lighthouse to my mother's place.  I brought her some groceries. 
Beyond the window, snow falls more heavily than ever.  Silent. Spellbinding. 
HELEN Your father thought that heavy snow was God's kindness.  Despite the hardship, it brought us beauty... 
Ishmael at the rustic table.  Watching her back. 
HELEN ...and reminded us.  Of our place in things. 
Softer.  Not bitter, but regretful that... 
HELEN You don't believe in God anymore. 
HATSUE (V.O.) The last time.  At the cedar tree. I knew we could never be right together.  And that soon I would have to tell you. 
His eyes are dry.  The letter has used up his tears long ago. 
HATSUE (V.O.) This is the last time I will write to you.  I am not yours anymore. 
He sets the letter on the bed beside him. 
HATSUE (V.O.) I wish you the very best.  Your heart is large and you are gentle and kind.  I know you will do great things in the world. 
He reaches now to his inside coat pocket.  Withdrawing... 
HATSUE (V.O.) I must say good-bye to you now. Our lives will move on.  The best we can. 
...a page.  Folded in quarters.  Sets it near the letter. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Milholland's report was like her letter.  Something no one else. Would ever read. 
He stares at them.  Side by side. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Thing about having only one hand. It's hard to tear pages up.  And I wasn't carrying a match. 
He lies back.  Across the bed. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) So I thought of my father.  The man who would have taken this report to Judge Fielding. 
Tears stand in his eyes. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) But every reporter.  Chooses his own balance.  FInds the facts that matter. 
Shuts the eyes.  Against them.  Against everything. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) After all, the freighter was only a theory.  It proved nothing at all.  There were other facts. That mattered. 
We CLOSE on his face.  The tightness of the muscles. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Tomorrow I would write a column. About prejudice.  And she would be grateful.  For my large...and gentle...heart. 
The eyes open, they are blank.  Staring... 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Her husband would be judged.  And she would be alone. 
...at the future. 
ISHMAEL (V.O.) Alone.  The past looks different. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Hatsue Miyamoto in the witness box. Graceful, erect, her porcelain beauty accessible, eager to cooperate.  Humble. 
HATSUE Hopeful.  Is the word I would use. 
And Nels seems slightly surprised. 
NELS But Carl didn't say yes. 
HATSUE He didn't say no.  That was Kabuo's point.  Given how Carl's mother felt, Carl was still willing to consider selling to us.  It was a good sign. 
Nels considers that. 
NELS Well, in the week that followed, the week before Carl's death... did your husband pursue him? 
HATSUE No.  Kabuo did not wish to beg, he respected Carl's right to reflect.  He was sure Carl would do the honorable thing. 
NELS (right back) And did he? 
She nods.  Only once.  Her eyes bright. 
HATSUE The night of the 15th, Kabuo helped Carl at sea.  With his dead battery. 
Nels raises his eyebrows.  To give the point its weight. 
HATSUE Right there, on the boat, they agreed.  $8400 for the seven acres, $800 down.  They shook on it.  Kabuo was so excited when he came home. 
Nels lets that sit.  And sit. 
NELS And when did you first learn. That Carl had drowned? 
The slightest pause.  As if hesitant to confess... 
HATSUE One o'clock, that afternoon, from a clerk at Petersen's. 
NELS (turning to Hooks) Your witness. 
And Alvin Hooks rises.  Perches on the edge of the prosecutor's table.  And looks at the witness with fairness and suspicion. 
HOOKS Your husband came home agitated, after his encounter with the deceased? 
No impatience across her perfect features.  Only earnestness will do. 
HATSUE I said 'excited'.  Not agitated, he was excited in the sense of being overjoyed. 
HOOKS You were...overjoyed yourself, to hear the news? 
HATSUE Happy for him.  And relieved. 
HOOKS So, then, you...and your husband... must have called friends, relatives, to tell them the amazing news.  Yes? 
HATSUE (calm, respectful) No. 
HOOKS Really?  Didn't call your mother, your sisters, about starting a new life.  Your husband never tells his brothers that the family honor is vindicated. 
Hatsue shifts in her chair.  Smooths her skirt. 
HATSUE We hear how Carl...passed away. Only a few hours later. 
HOOKS Your husband returned at, what, seven o'clock? 
HATSUE Closer to eight. 
HOOKS So, five hours.  Plenty of time for a call.  He was 'excited', you say. In the sense of being 'overjoyed'. 
She nods, he was. 
GILLANDERS Compressed air horn, most likely. Hope to God some man hears you in that fog. 
NELS All right, what if the defendant heard?  So Carl let him aboard, to help.  And then the fishing gaff? 
Gillanders grins.  Wide. 
GILLANDERS You mean Miyamoto followed him out there, and sucker-punched him? 
NELS Well, what if? 
GILLANDERS Now, how is Miyamoto gonna know in advance?  That Carl loses two batteries.  Must happen once ever' 20 years or so. 
Another chuckle or two from the gallery. 
NELS Thank you, Mr. Gillanders.  Thank you for coming down, in this cold weather. 
GILLANDERS Well, it does seem mighty warm in here.  Specially for Mr. Hooks. 
And looks at the prosecutor.  Who rises, easily.  A most polite fuck-you smile.  Hooks strolls now.  Slow and steady.  Straight to the witness box.  Rests his hands on the rail.  Leans in. 
HOOKS What if the defendant follows Carl. And pretends his own batteries are dead?  Would Carl tie up and help? 
And the smile on Gillander's face.  Stops.  Cold. 
HOOKS Is the word you're groping for...'yes', perha... 
JUDGE (O.S.) Alvin! 
HOOKS Rephrase.  Do you agree that he might tie up to the defendant's bo... 
GILLANDERS So why's the D-6 in Carl's well? 
HOOKS Who's to say?  Maybe it was just a spare, after all.  Or maybe the defendant left it, as a potential alibi.  In case somebody saw him in Ship Channel Bank. (beat) In case we put two and two together, knowing of the hostility. Between the families. 
Gillanders.  Actually thinking about that. 
HOOKS My question is.  Could Carl have tied up to help the defendant? 
A beat.  A cleared throat. 
GILLANDERS It coulda happened.  And if I start to say it's doubtful, you'd probl'y say 'no further questions', right? 
Once more, laughter.  Enough to bring the gavel DOWN. 
HOOKS Right about that.  And right that it 'coulda happened'. 
Turns his back, walks away. 
HOOKS Thanks for your help.  Hope the witness box wasn't too warm for your comfort. 
All eyes follow the prosecutor, as he sits.  Except for the defendant.  His stare forward.  Recalling... 
INT. KABUO'S CELL - NIGHT 
Kabuo seated on the concrete floor of his cell, leaning back against the wall.  Leaving the cot.  For his guest. 
NELS But the toughest scenario.  Is the one Hooks will never raise. 
Kabuo watching.  Quiet.  Takes a breath... 
KABUO And what's that? 
NELS That you came upon Carl by accident. Like you said.  Gave him the battery. Like you said.  Asked him about the seven acres.  Like you said. 
The hardest.  Straightest.  Look. 
NELS Only.  He said no. 
Silence. 
NELS And something...happened.  That you'd never planned.  Because you're not a cold-blooded killer. 
Nobody flinches.  Nobody blinks. 
KABUO I'm more a hot-blooded killer, huh? Like a soldier.  Like a samurai. 
NELS You won't hear that from Hooks. Because the charge is first-degree murder, which requires premeditation. He can't change the charge. 
Do you understand? 
NELS So if the jury thinks you did kill. but only in the heat of anger.  They have to acquit. 
Do you? 
NELS And you couldn't.  Be.  Re-tried. 
Kabuo's face is stone.  A warrior's mask. 
KABUO You want me to say that. 
NELS I want you.  To tell the truth. 
There is no kindly smile tonight.  No candy bars. 
KABUO You think that is the truth. 
NELS I told your wife.  Trials aren't always so much about actual truth. As about what folks believe is true. That's sad.  And it's real. 
KABUO And what do you believe? 
Nels sighs.  Cocks his head just to one side. 
NELS A question first.  Why do you want to know? 
KABUO (straight back) Because you're my friend. 
The old man thinks about that.  Studies his client. 
NELS I believe you are a good man.  Who belongs with his family. 
And then the feeling comes.  To the watery eyes. 
NELS And I believe.  You didn't do it. 
HATSUE Well, please break them, then. I won't keep you a moment. 
And she reaches past him.  To take her husband's hands.  She looks in his eyes, as if they are alone. 
HATSUE I love you.  And tomorrow, when I make our bed.  I'm setting out your pillow. 
Tears just flood her eyes.  Sudden, unbidden.  She holds tight to her smile.  And to his hands. 
HATSUE (whispers) You better be there. 
He smiles.  A lovely, easy, cowboy-American smile. 
KABUO Only if you ask me nice. 
ANGLE...from the gallery.  One man watches.  Watches as a woman brings manicled hands to her lips.  And walks quickly away... 
...toward us.  Straight toward us, in fact.  And when she stands before us, her hands mangle her purse.  The eyes are hollow, flint- edged. 
HATSUE Did you write that column? 
ISHMAEL I did.  But the jury won't s... 
HATSUE It's not for the.  They only get to convict him. 
She arches her throat.  As if facing a firing squad. 
HATSUE It's the judge who decides.  If he'll hang. 
He reaches.  His fingertips find her shoulder.  She does not resist his touch. 
ISHMAEL (gently) None of that is gonna ha... 
HATSUE You don't think he did this. 
His hand comes away.  From his heart... 
ISHMAEL I know he didn't. 
She nods.  Nods.  Her eyes filling.  Moving over his face. 
HATSUE Come to supper, tonight.  My mother would be proud to have you with us. 
He hears the emotion in her voice.  He swallows hard. 
ISHMAEL I can't. 
No, I can't. 
ISHMAEL Tell your mom.  I want a rain check. 
INT. KABUO'S CELL - NIGHT 
Kabuo sits on the cot, the way we have always seen him.  Alone in his mind.  Footfalls.  Kabuo oblivious, far away.  The door CLANGS open. 
MORAN You have a visitor, son. 
Turns to the visitor... 
MORAN You said three minutes. 
ISHMAEL Won't take two. 
And Moran leaves.  The door CLANGS shut.  They are alone.  Only one man smiling... 
KABUO Please, sit down... 
But the tall man doesn't.  Doesn't move. 
KABUO She told me you're writing a column.  We're very grateful. 
Ishmael nods, awkwardly.  Acknowledging this. 
KABUO She.  Said you two go way back... 
Ishmael stares into Kabuo's earnest smile. 
KABUO That's nice. 
ISHMAEL You said there was a lantern in his hand.  When you found him in the fog. 
Kabuo blinks.  The man's tone is formal.  As if the offer of friendliness is somehow rejected. 
ISHMAEL And another one.  Lashed to the mast? 
Kabuo's own smile has faded.  The mask has returned. 
KABUO That's right. 
ISHMAEL Two.  Lanterns. 
And Kabuo grins.  In spite of himself. 
KABUO If I did the math right. 
Ishmael leans back.  Against the door. 
ISHMAEL It's the sheriff's math.  I'm wondering about. 
INT. SOMMENSEN'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Blackness.  The sound of wind.  Of water lapping at wood.  CLICK of a key, springing a lock.  The SCRAPE of a large PADLOCK sliding away.  A door CREAKS open, and from the sound of it, a large one. 
Gray light seeps in. 
MORAN (O.S.) Blackmail.  That's all it is. 
See them now.  Three SILHOUETTES framed in thr barn's open doorway. Against the night sky. 
ISHMAEL (O.S.) I call it keeping your promise. We said if I ever needed some cooperation from you... 
A soft CLICK, and the LIGHTS go on.  Such as they are.  A few bare bulbs strung across the rafters of this towering ramshackle enclosure.  A 50-year-old mildewed barn, built of creosoted timbers.  This is a place for overhauling boats, with sea doors facing the harbor. 
Two BOATS are tied to wide-elbowed piers.  We've seen them before. 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS We're not tryin' him for lying.  Lots of us told lies, one time or another. Prob'ly none of us murdered anybody. 
HAROLD JENSEN But what drives a man to lie? Means he's hiding somethin'. 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS Not necessarily that he killed Carl.  I'm not sayin' you're wrong, just that I have my doubts. 
BURKE LATHAM Look, if you changed chairs right now, cos you doubted that maybe a chunk of the moon was gonna fall through the roof, that wouldn't be a reasonable doubt. 
Folks turn to Burke.  What the hell are you talking about? 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS (laughs) Okay, you win that one.  Now can we all go to bed? 
HARLAN McQUEEN The mooring line.  Doesn't that tell you something? 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS I think it does.  Miyamoto was on Carl's boat, or vice-versa.  Not much doubt about th... 
MARLAN McQUEEN And Carl's blood on the gaff? 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS There's a chance it came from his hand. 
BURKE LATHAM There's a chance of everything. But you add a chance from here and a chance from there, the world ain't made a coincidences only. 
Everyone agrees.  Almost everyone. 
EDITH TWARDZIK Look, if he gave Carl a battery like he said, he'd only a had one left.  Not two. 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS He explained that.  He replaced it. 
HARLAN McQUEEN Only he threw that part in when he got cornered.  But first time around, he never mentioned it. 
ROGER PORTER Alex, stop arguin' just to argue. You can see what really happened, same as us.  Isn't that what we're supposed to do is tell the actual truth?  My God, Carl died, here. 
ALEXANDER VAN NESS So I don't care Carl died, unless I'm ready to reach for the hangman's rope?  You oughta stop tryin' to bully me into hurrying. 
Little anger in that.  It brings a silence. 
BURKE LATHAM Been six hours.  You sayin' there's a way to go slower? 
INT. NELS' KITCHEN - LATE NIGHT 
Nels in a ratty, frayed old robe, pouring hot water from a kettle into mismatched cups.  His hair is wispy and wild, his eyes puffy. He COUGHS horrible.  CLEARS his throat... 
NELS Well.  It's imaginative... 
And drops tea bags into the cups with a splash. 
NELS ...I'll give you that. 
Lisps over to the cluttered table.  Where his guest is waiting. 
ISHMAEL It's the way it happened, I know it is. 
NELS No, you don't. 
Nels sits.  Slowly.  Ishmael removes his bag.  Sips his tea. 
NELS That report.  About the freighter? You didn't find that tonight, did you? 
No answer.  Ishmael keeps sipping.  Holding eye contact. 
NELS You went right to the cell.  Then to the boat.  Then here.  How long did you know about the freighter? 
ISHMAEL (just above a whisper) One day. 
Nels' turn.  To sip his tea. 
NELS This tastes horrible, hmmn? 
ISHMAEL You're wondering why I held it. 
NELS I'm wondering how the judge is gonna like my waking up his old bones.  in the middle of the night. 
And he smiles.  A wonderful smile. 
NELS Your daddy.  Was quite a feller. 
ISHMAEL Yes, he was. 
Another sip. 
NELS He's looking down.  And he's not thinking 'bout the man you were yesterday.  He's proud of the man you are tonight.  That's what counts. 
ISHMAEL To my father.  Everything counts. 
Nels watches the pain in that. 
NELS What if I told you he once said to me...don't matter the road we take.  Just so we get there. 
ISHMAEL (smiles) Then you'd be lying. 
NELS Doesn't make me wrong. 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
The jury once more in the jury box.  PAN their faces.  The faces we saw last night. 
NELS (O.S.) All right, let's say that twine had been there to lash a lantern. That it had come from the shuttle of twine found in the deceased's pocket. 
Edith Twardzik.  Burke Latham.  Alexander Van Ness. 
NELS (O.S.) Now to re-open a trial that had gone to jury...new evidence should be pretty important. 
See Ishmael.  Quiet, intense.  On the witness stand. 
NELS (O.S.) Tell us why that lantern would be so significant. 
ISHMAEL Well.  It shows the prosecutor was wrong.  It was Carl's boat that was dead in the water.  Or he'd never have put up the lantern. 
Nels thinks about that.  So the jury will, too. 
NELS Now you believe there were two lanterns when defendant arrived. One in Carl's hand.  The second lashed to the mast. 
ISHMAEL That's what Mr. Miyamoto reported, and he'd have no reason to lie. He couldn't know that it would help his case. 
And just strolls on over to his seat.  Looks in his client's eyes. How 'bout them apples?  Kabuo loves this old guy.  And right here, he lets a little of that show. 
Across the way, the prosector is rising.  He smiles.  Friendly, almost amused. 
HOOKS I have to start reading your paper more closely.  You're quite a storyteller. 
ISHMAEL (straight back) Thank you.  Coming from the man who wrote, 'But here, adrift in the fog, I plead for your help'...that's quite a compliment. 
There is a ripple of laughter.  But no smile on Ishmael's features. His game face is on.  Come and get me, sucker.  And Hooks does come, one step at a time.  Straight to the box. 
HOOKS Everything had to happen just right.  For your little story to fly.  I mean, a blond hair could be on that gunnel for a lot of reasons. 
ISHMAEL I'm sorry, was there a question in there? 
No love lost.  And no pretense about it.  Hatsue Miyamoto sits with her hand in her mother's.  Watching these men battle for her husband's life. 
HOOKS Well, the freighter.  The twine. The blood.  The knife.  The cup. The watch.  The second battery. The phantom lantern.  The fishing gaff.  The cracked gunnel.  The skull wound.  The blond hair.  That's eleven things... 
ISHMAEL Twelve. 
Hooks smiles. 
HOOKS I stand corrected, sir.  And you have a neat explanation for every one of them. 
Hooks nods.  Yes, you do. 
HOOKS And since you confess this is all pure guesswork.  What is your expertise, sir, are you a detective of sorts? 
ISHMAEL My expertise.  Is that I'm a journalist. 
Right at his eyes. 
ISHMAEL And journalism.  Is balance.  Finding the facts folks need to know. 
The words ring with quiet, heartfelt conviction, that others cannot fully appreciate. 
ISHMAEL Then putting them together.  So truth is revealed. 
HOOKS But isn't the truth that there are several other ways to explain each of these twelve pieces. 
ISHMAEL Oh, yes. 
And the prosecutor stops.  Confused for an instant by this confession.  Until... 
ISHMAEL But no other way.  To explain them all. 
A heart-stopping hush.  As everyone, as Hooks himself, sees the cehckmate. 
ISHMAEL And since they all happened. This is the only explanation that's the truth. 
The prosecutor looks like he's been slapped.  Like every act of will is necessary to maintain composure.  To find the easy, untroubled smile. 
HOOKS Your line of work.  You must meet a lot of men play fast and loose with the truth. 
ISHMAEL Like you couldn't believe. 
Service returned.  Hooks leans in. 
HOOKS Well, the defendant is a liar. He's confessed that much.  And his explanation is...he was afraid. 
And leans in some more. 
HOOKS Afraid that the good folks of this jury.  Would be too stupid to understand.  Too prejudiced to be fair. 
Shakes his head. 
HOOKS You buy that? 
ISHMAEL (gently) I think he was greedy. 
And once more.  The prosecutor can only blink.  Can only move toward the trap. 
HOOKS Greedy. 
ISHMAEL He didn't want to lose any more. 
No smile.  No smile as the trap springs shut. 
ISHMAEL He'd lost a lot in the war, you see.  I had sent him away.  To a concentration camp.  But a nice one.  Far less brutal than the Nazis. Because I'm a civilized person. 
He stops.  Lets Hooks clear his throat. 
HOOKS I asked you a question, you're writing a tract, h... 
ISHMAEL That's how journalists.  Answer questions. 
Turns to Judge Fielding.  With all respect... 
ISHMAEL May I answer the question, Your Honor?  Anout the defendant's motivation to lie? 
JUDGE I wouldn't miss it for the world, son.  Now, you say you sent the defendant to Manzanar? 
ISHMAEL I didn't say.  I did it alone. 
And things get real quiet. 
ISHMAEL So there he was.  His father lost his health there, finally died. They lost more than Etta Heine's seven acres.  They lost their liberty, their dignity.  Their ideals about this country. 
So much feeling in this.  He has to stop.  Swallow hard. 
ISHMAEL They lost their trust in us.  We had treated them worse than animals. How would we now see tham.  As human beings? 
Tells the jury.  Straight to their faces. 
ISHMAEL This man lost a lot in the war. He didn't want now to lose his babies.  Or the woman who loves him. 
Another level of quiet.  He turns to the prosecutor... 
ISHMAEL And my expertise in this, sir.  Is that I lost a lot in the war myself. 
Words coming from someplace very deep. 
ISHMAEL And the fact that I am the only witness.  Who placed his right hand upon the Holy Bible.  Is the least of it, sir.  I assure you of that. 
