SPARTAN 
a screenplay by 
David Mamet 
copyright (c) 2002 
by David Mamet 
FADE IN: 
EXT. WOODED HILLSIDE. DAY. 
We see the drawn face of a young woman. Camera tracks with her as she runs through the thick woods. She is exerting herself heavily as she moves up a steep hillside. She looks behind her quickly, and continues. 
ANGLE, we see a young man, and then another, running through the woods, out of breath. They are dressed in filthy BDU's, and show several days growth of beard. The leader stops for a moment, and looks around. The two men separate. 
ANGLE, the  young woman, who has come to a small ledge, over a ravine.  She stops, panting, and bends over, to attempt to catch her  breath. She looks around, and looks back, her back to a steep  wall, a steep drop before her. 
ANGLE, the first young man, having come up to the spot vacated by the young woman. In the BG we see his colleague. He looks down, and sees movement in the brush below him, in the ravine. He starts to descend, and then looks up. 
ANGLE, the young woman, pulling herself up the steep rockface. The young man regains the ledge and looks up. Camera takes him around a bend in the ledge. 
Standing here we discover ROBERT SCOTT. He is somewhat older than the two men, he is very fit, also dressed in filthy BDU's. He is making a note in a small notebook, which he closes. Now, the two men look across the ravine at the young woman, seen disappearing over a ridge. 
SCOTT (quietly) ...you better catch her... 
The man looks around, and begins climbing up the rockface behind him, pulling himself up, hand over hand by the roots of trees. Several feet up, he falls on his back. He tries to work himself to his knees and winces in pain. He looks to Scott for help. 
SCOTT ...your Dad's napping on the sofa, your Mom's watching Let's Make A Deal, and God is Dead. What do you expect me to do...? 
YOUNG MAN (very weakly) ...I'm tired, Sir...Sir, there's no way... 
SCOTT There's always a way...Don't You tell me there's no way... 
A pause, as the man tries again to get to his feet. Scott looks up at the young woman on top of the ridge and gives her a "hold" gesture. She stops, at his command. Scott nods, as if to himself, and then kicks the young man in the ribs. The man starts, his eyes grow, and he gets to his feet. 
SCOTT How 'bout that? That's called 'Adrenaline'. You said you Wanted In. 
He moves into the now-standing young man, and hits him, not heavily, but convincingly, several times. 
SCOTT This is where you get in. The mugger don't care. The shooter don't care...get up...Or I will beat you to death on this fucken hill...Now: you better Catch her... 
He motions with his head. In the BG we see the young woman nod, and begin running again. We see her, for a moment, breast a hill, and disappear again... 
ANGLE, on the young man, as he looks at Scott, empty, now, of self-pity, as if he just realized something. 
SCOTT (responding to his look. As if to say "That's right.") There's nothing but the mission... 
The young man begins to climb the rockface. 
HOLD on Scott for a moment. 
INT. TRAINING FACILITY. DAY. 
A large, hand-painted sign hangs on the cinderblock wall of the rough building. It reads: 
These are the precincts of pain. A goddess lives here. Her name is Victory. 
In front of the sign walks the young woman we saw earlier. She is exhausted, she has a towel wrapped around her neck. Camera takes her to Scott, who is holding a cup of coffee, and making notes in the small notebook we saw earlier. 
She stands, waiting, as she finishes his note. 
SCOTT Well done. 
YOUNG WOMAN (JACKIE BLACK) A signal honor to work with you, sir. 
SCOTT Thank you, Sergeant. 
He starts away from her, and she raises her hand slightly, to indicate she has something more to say. He turns back to her. 
JACKIE BLACK Sir: Day or Night. Black or White. You reach out for me. "Black, Jaqueline A. US 24191489." 
SCOTT I'll remember, Sergeant. 
She nods, and walks off. Scott walks toward a mess tent. He is joined by George Blane, a very military-looking figure of an older man. He wears an informal fatigue outfit, mismatched jacket and trousers, without insignia. Scott is greeted by him, as they walk toward the mess tent. Scott shows the notebook to Blane, and Blane refers from the notebook to what we see are a group of eighty young men, in the mess tent, two of them the men we saw on the hill. Blane takes the notebook and walks off, as Scott enters the mess tent. 
ANGLE HIS POV, Scott enters the tent. Several of the young men react to him. He nods to them. Among them, we see the young man Scott berated on the hill, who rises and comes over to Scott. 
ANGLE, on Scott, who sits, as a uniformed man brings him a tinfoil tray with some food on it. Scott takes out a stiletto from his pocket, presses a button and the blade emerges. He begins to use it to cut up his meat. The young man from the hill, Anton, stands sheepishly near Scott, till Scott turns, acknowledging him. 
ANGLE, on Miller in the interrogation room. Miller nods to Scott, meaning "You know what to do." 
ANGLE on Gaines, as Scott enters, the interrogators step back for Miller, who is obviously their superior. He motions them to continue. 
Camera holds Scott throughout the following interchange, with the suspect and questioners seen reflected in the glass of the door. 
INTERROGATOR Once more: 
GAINES She, uh. She had lunch with her father. 
INTERROGATOR Lunch with her father - you seconded to that detail? 
GAINES No, sir. I just had her. 
INTERROGATOR "...you just had her..." 
GAINES I. Uh...uh. I had her all day. Tucked her in. At Ten. And she... 
INTERROGATOR ...yeah, "she had a tiff with her boyfriend..." 
GAINES Yes. I... 
INTERROGATOR Michael Blake - (he holds up a photo of a preppy fellow) 
MILLER What was it about? 
GAINES I think it was about her...her... (he makes gestures of haircutting) 
MILLER Her haircut... (Gaines nods) So it wasn't a serious...? 
GAINES No, no. (pause) No. (pause) And then I, (he covers his mouth as he speaks) I held the post until relieved... (he gestures at his notebook, as if to support him) 
Miller motions at Scott. 
MILLER Well, then, we've got a little problem. 
GAINES (shaking his head in denial) I was there. 
MILLER (reading) 23.12 Hours, 19 May. Harvard Yard, Northeast Corner, Lowell House, reveals no Secret Service Presence, neither this post nor adjacent... (he looks through his notes) ...a second tour, 23.30, reveals, similarly... 
GAINES I was there, Sir. 
MILLER (to Gaines) Who's lying? (pause) You or him? (pause. Gaines slightly averts his head.) 
ANGLE on Miller, who gives an infinitesimal sign to Scott who steps forward and slaps Gaines across the face. 
SCOTT You son of a bitch, I've got fifteen years in, and three kids, and you're gonna sit there, and lie away my Pension... 
He makes a move toward Gaines. 
GAINES I... 
SCOTT ...don't you tell me you were there... 
GAINES I was On Post... 
SCOTT (as he moves towards Gaines seriously) ...you lying swine...Don't you tell me you were On Post! 
Miller gestures to a couple of the types who take Scott out of the room and sit him forcefully, in a chair...cautioning him to stay still. 
Miller now stands by him. 
HOLD on Scott who uses the pause to review the documents he holds, the photos of the girl, of the Boyfriend, of the Professor. He picks up another glossy magazine showing the redheaded girl - the caption reads "America is Seeing Red". 
INTERROGATOR Shall I tell you what's gonna happen to you, when we find you out? 
GAINES ...I... (he gets up and walks, wearily, toward the windows, and turns) I...Uh... 
INTERROGATOR Were you fucking her...? (pause) We're gonna find out... 
GAINES No, I...um... 
INTERROGATOR ...Where Is She? 
Scott turns, to Miller, who is seen, beyond the door, in conference with several government types. 
Scott leaves the room, and is seen, on the outskirts of the conference. 
MILLER We've got until her Monday Morning Class, and then it's Meet the Press; and "Where is she...?" (he shakes his head) Who's got the Professor...? Where is he...? 
AN AGENT Martha's Vineyard. 
HOLD on Anton, who is standing, unassigned, and looking it. 
We see, on an improvised bulletin board, photos of the Boy, Blake, the Professor, and the Girl, blown up from a newspaper shot, and in various photos. As we watch an Agent walks up with a box full of photos, and tacks one up on the board. It is an altered shot showing the young girl with short, spikey platinum hair. 
ANGLE on Scott, dressed in a clean shirt, a tie, as he takes a photo from the box. We see him put it next to the original, blonde photo, and look at both. 
AGENT We ran it up from a description of the colorist from the Beauty Parlor... 
SCOTT Gimme your coat. 
The Agent takes off his suitcoat, and gives it to Scott, who puts it on. 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he holds the photos, and the Regency description. He walks toward the door, through the mass of agents. He stops by Miller, who is on the phone, looking at a photograph of the Professor, as a tech hooks up a video feed of a house on the water, the Professor's house. A photo of a sailboat is tacked up. We read 'The Colophon' on its stern. 
SCOTT (to Miller) I need five thousand dollars. 
Miller gestures "Just a Moment", and then waves to an Aide, meaning "Do It". 
SCOTT How long do we have? Sir? 
MILLER (shakes his head) It hits the papers, and we're done. 
SCOTT No...note? No... 
Miller shakes his head, he holds up the "Regency" note... 
SCOTT (nodding) I've got it... (to Miller) Can I have some backup? 
Miller, gesturing around the room, meaning "what you see is what you get". All the occupants of the room are engaged on some task, save Anton, who sits alone on a bench. Scott looks at Anton, who glances at Scott, trying to keep the appeal out of his glance, "Please take me". 
SCOTT (to Anton) We're scraping the bottom of the barrel here, aren't we? 
ANTON Yes. Sir. 
Scott looks at Anton and shakes his head. He is summoned to the front of the room by a young woman, who is putting cash into an envelope. Scott comes over to her, and we see her filling out a slip of paper. She hands him the cash in the envelope, and the slip of paper. 
YOUNG WOMAN I need you to sign it. 
SCOTT You sign it. (He scans the room again, shrugs, and motions to Anton) Come on, Wallflower... (Anton rises and walks over to him) 
Scott turns to Anton. 
SCOTT Now: your mouth shut. Your eyes open, and form on me...Here's where we're going... 
There is the sound of a gunshot. Scott and Anton instinctively take cover against the side of the building, drawing their sidearms. 
HOLD TIGHT on Scott. As he looks through the half-open door. 
We see several of the Swat men, taking up positions, one of them kicks open a door, and his partner enters. Pause. We hear the partner call "clear". 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he re-enters the building, and proceeds, pistol out, toward the room. 
ANGLE HIS POV. On the floor, we see the dead Secret Service Agent, a pistol in his hand. 
We see Miller turn to his team. An Agent kneels to the fallen Secret Service Agent, and prods a small hideout pistol from his hand. Scott turns to leave, and sees Anton standing next to him. 
SCOTT Don't look at him. Don't look at the Downed Man. He's dead... (as he turns his back on the scene) Kick the fool overboard... 
ANGLE on Anton and Scott as they leave. In the BG we see Miller et al. Miller giving directions. 
MILLER ...who is the girl he went to see? Get her in...The girl he was fucking...Who's got the Coastguard... 
TIGHT on Anton and Scott as they exit the building. 
SCOTT I'd hate to be the Lucky Duck who frisked him... (beat) 
ANTON He was off-post when they snatched the girl? 
SCOTT (as he looks at the fallen agent) Yeah. Well, apparently, he felt bad about it... 
EXT. REGENCY CLUB. NIGHT. 
A garish neon sign, beneath which we see a couple exiting, getting into their limo. Scott, in his sportcoat, walks up to the large and threatening bouncer at the velvet rope to the club. We see the bouncer bar his way, and gesture to his watch, meaning "closing up". 
ANGLE INS. Two one-hundred dollar bills are passed to the bouncer. 
ANGLE, Anton, in a cab across the street, looking on. 
ANGLE INT. THE REGENCY CLUB. Several well-dressed couples are leaving. A group of raucous, drunk businessmen types push past them. Scott walks up to the bar. The Bartender is beginning to ring out the cash register. In the BG we see a manager eye Scott, and continue to direct the closing operations. 
BARTENDER Closing up... (he points to his watch) Can't sell you booze after 3 AM. 
ANGLE CU, Zimmer reacts infinitesimally, to the sight of Anton. 
ANGLE XCU, Scott, sees him, and slams him against the side of the car. Zimmer reaches through the half-open door, and comes out with an automatic pistol in his hand. Scott kicks him in the stomach, Zimmer tries to raise the hand with the gun, and Scott throws him to the ground, the pistol falls on the concrete. 
ANGLE on Scott as Anton emerges from the alley. Scott directs him to drag Zimmer into the alleyway, near a dumpster. Anton thrusts his hand into the car and starts to reach for the dropped pistol. 
SCOTT Don't touch the piece, don't touch the piece, don't touch the piece, th'out your gloves on... 
ANGLE INT. THE SMALL ALLEYWAY. As Anton now pulls off Zimmer's sportcoat, and begins emptying the pockets. Scott interrogates Zimmer. 
ZIMMER ...I think you broke my arm. 
SCOTT (as he shows the photo to Zimmer) You seen this girl before... 
ZIMMER (of his arm) ...I think it's broken... 
SCOTT You seen her tonight...? 
Zimmer turns away from the photo. 
ZIMMER ...I think it's... 
SCOTT (to Anton) Pull him up... 
Anton pulls Zimmer to his feet. Scott puts a lock on Zimmer and breaks his arm. Zimmer screams. 
SCOTT Now it's broken. (of the picture) What's her name...? (pause. He strikes Zimmer in the face) WHAT'S HER NAME... (to Anton) Break his other arm... 
ZIMMER I DON'T KNOW HER NAME... 
SCOTT You don't know her name, then who is she...? 
ZIMMER Some, some 'girl'... 
SCOTT Some 'girl', some 'pal' of yours? Where is she Now...? 
Anton, tossing Zimmer's coat, comes up with a small medicine vial. He holds it up to Scott. Who takes it, looks at it, sniffs it. Pause. 
SCOTT (to Zimmer) Oh no... (pause) Oh no...this isn't Rohypnol... (pause) Is it...? (pause) Izziz Rohypnol? Is this "Rho"? (pause) IZZIZ A ONE-SIDED CONVERSATION...? (to Anton) Whatzisname? 
ANTON (looking at his driver's license) Donny Zimmer. 
SCOTT Donny. Donny: where's the girl...? (pause) You dose her...? (pause) Where is she? Donny...? 
Anton tossing Zimmer's clothes comes up with an envelope. Scott takes it, and leafs through many bills. 
SCOTT ...what is this? Ten, what is it, Fifteen thou...? For what...? 
ZIMMER I never saw that girl... 
SCOTT Oh, alright, then we've got to let you go... 
ANGLE CU, Scott. 
SCOTT Where'd you take the girl, Donny...? (pause. Silence. To Anton) You touch his piece? 
ANTON No. 
SCOTT Good. 
Scott gestures to Anton to let Zimmer go. Zimmer hesitates, knowing he must not move. Scott holds the photo to Zimmer's face. 
ZIMMER THAT'S NOT THE GIRL...THAT'S NOT THE GIRL! 
SCOTT That's not what girl...? (pause) Where'd you take her...? (Scott points to Zimmer's pistol. To Anton) Put your glove on. Pick up his pistol. Two knees, the other elbow, (he points to the head) Mozambique... 
ANGLE XCU, Anton looking at Scott, to say "Really"? 
ANGLE XCU Scott, nodding back, "Really". 
SCOTT You bet your life. 
Scott starts to walk away. Zimmer begins screaming. 
ZIMMER Wait...Wait...Wait... 
EXT. NORTH END, BOSTON QUIET STREET. NIGHT. 
A large Mercedes is parked outside on the quiet street. A chauffeur reads the paper, he half turns, sleepily, at the sight of a man walking across the street. 
ANGLE Scott and Anton pulling up in a Camaro. 
NADYA ...a contact for Personal Services...They pay us so much for each call, and...The girls pay us! We are just a - 
MILLER They show you proof of their age... 
NADYA Of course, of course, I...you think I...What do you think, I... 
SCOTT (showing her the printout) Where's Number Fourteen? (pause) 
NADYA ...I don't understand you. 
SCOTT ...where's Number Fourteen? (pause) 
NADYA (pause) I want my Lawyer... 
Miller takes the photos of Laura and shows the platinum- haired one to Nadya. 
MILLER ...is this the Girl? Is this her? Was she in here? 
NADYA I, wait, I no...I...I want to talk to my lll... 
MILLER (of the platinum-haired girl) Izzat her? It's her, isn't it. She was here. Is that her...? 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he steps away. He takes us through the Whorehouse. In the adjacent room we see a bank of video monitors, showing people in various sexual activities. On the screen for a moment comes the face of what looks like a very young girl indeed, camera swerves onto the face of the Businessman we saw outside the Whorehouse, he is disrobing,... 
BUSINESSMAN (ON TAPE) ...come over here, you little bitch...That's right, get your sweet ass over here... 
ANGLE on Scott. As he looks to the Businessman, himself, who is seated in a chair, presided over by several agents, forced to watch the video. He turns his head away. 
SCOTT (to an Agent) Make him watch it. 
One of the agents turns the Businessman's head brusquely back. 
BUSINESSMAN I...I...listen...listen: I'm a wealthy man. I am, I am not- without-friends in, in the Administration... (he takes out a business card and hands it to Scott) ...whatever it takes to... 
SCOTT This here, sir. This is a piece of cardboard. 
Scott holds the card. He shakes his head sadly. Scott nods to the Interrogator and Scott throws the card into the Businessman's lap. 
INTERROGATOR (as the Businessman starts to look away) Don't you look away, you son of a bitch... (he forces him to watch the video) 
ANGLE CU, on Scott, as he looks disgusted. Anton stands on one side, looking to Scott for a cue as to how to react. 
BUSINESSMAN I...I...I... 
SCOTT (stepping in) "I-I-I" - What are you, Carmen Miranda...? 
He holds the photo of the platinum-haired Laura Newton. 
BUSINESSMAN I... (he draws Scott close, turning from Anton to the "good" cop) Listen to me: I cannot. Be caught here. You write an amount on a sheet of paper...write it on my card... (MORE) 
BUSINESSMAN (CONT'D) (he takes out his business card and hands it to Scott) 
SCOTT No, Baby. Today we got the Barter System. And you best pray to God you got something to trade... 
BUSINESSMAN I...I... (he takes out his wallet) 
SCOTT IT AIN'T MONEY. YOU SICK FATCAT FOOL. WHERE IS THE GIRL...? (he slaps the Businessman, and Anton pulls him off) LEAVE ME ALONE, I'LL GET THE TRUTH OUT OF HIM... (he picks up the man's business card) Come in here, try to buy me off? I've got Three Daughters... 
Anton succeeds in pulling Scott off the Businessman. He drags him around a corner. We see the terrified Businessman in the background, as Anton tries to reason with Scott. 
ANTON ...maybe we'd... 
ANGLE, on Scott, now appearing transformed, and easy. He gestures "shusshh" to Anton, meaning "It is all an act". In the BG we see the Interrogator browbeating the Businessman. 
SCOTT (as he looks down at the Businessman's card, and shakes his head. He moves back toward the Businessman, terrifying him) ...I thought when you wanted to pet little girls, you picked on your Daughter...Ain't that what you rich people do...now you step off the Reservation and you want to buy me? (MORE) 
SCOTT (CONT'D) (he shows a photo of the platinum-haired Laura to the Businessman) Where Is This Girl... 
The Businessman is terrified. He looks around the room in panic. 
ANGLE on Scott, as camera takes him to where the Female Agent is interrogating the Young Whore. Anton follows. 
YOUNG WHORE (looking at the photo of Laura Newton) I...She was sick...she was Not Very Well. She came in here...and...and... 
FEMALE AGENT ...who was she...? 
YOUNG WHORE I dunno...some young girl. I dunno...They took her, I told Nadya, she shunnt be here, they took her... 
FEMALE AGENT Who took her? 
YOUNG WHORE I think that was her. 
BURCH Was the girl in the whorehouse? (pause) What about your other leads?...the Boyfriend, the...Professor...? 
MILLER ...sir. 
STODDARD The Professor, where's his boat? 
MILLER The Coast Guard is on the... 
STODDARD WHERE IS THE FUCKEN BOAT? IS SHE ON THE BOAT... 
ANGLE on Scott and Anton. As Anton comes awake to the sound of the shouting. Scott gestures him to keep quiet. 
ANGLE on the two. As Anton wakes up. He picks up a sheet bearing the Picasso symbol, and starts to speak. Scott shakes his head, meaning "be quiet". 
SCOTT ...we just go where we're sent and do what we're told when we get there... 
He motions to be quiet - and to pay attention to the drama in the next room. 
ANGLE INT. THE STEEL LUNCHROOM. As Burch and Stoddard interrogate Miller. 
BURCH You've got the fucken Service Agent, shot himself...you're you're telling me, your best bet, some cocksuckers nabbed her, took her, took her, they don't know who she is. And they're gonna sell her down the river...? 
MILLER Sir... 
BURCH The Detail Agent. Was he fucking her? 
MILLER The girl? 
BURCH The Secret Service Agent, was he fucking Laura Newton...? 
MILLER He was off-post, with his girlfriend. (pause) 
STODDARD (as he holds up the "Picasso" letter from the Boyfriend, to read it. He reads:) The Professor, the Boyfriend, "...you behave like a slut...", this is who you like...? (he holds up the advertisement of the Regency Club) Aah...fuck (he holds up the photo of her hair) She dyed her hair. What do they do, her hair grows out, what do they do when they realize who she is...? (pause) 
SCOTT (under his breath, not realizing he's speaking) They kill her. 
BURCH (reacting, as if to say, "That's the first sensible thing I've heard") You're fucken A Right they kill her. Okay. Good. (MORE) 
BURCH (CONT'D) Now: Let's talk some commonsense: (pause) What can you do for me? (to Miller) ...who is that...? (Miller whispers to Burch. To Scott) ...Get in here... (Scott comes and stands by Burch) 
Scott, and then Miller, looks at Burch's clean-cut and very fit assistant, Stoddard. There is a pause, and then Burch motions Stoddard to leave the room, which he does. Pause. 
BURCH (quietly) ...what can you do for me? What can you do for me - I need it now - I need it before the Press gets it on Monday. Cause they will kill her. The jackals start a feeding frenzy, and she's red. Help me. 
Miller nods to an Aide, who comes forward, with a white scrap of paper. He hands it to Burch. 
MILLER Sir: This is the number of a public phone in Downtown Boston. (Burch nods) It's a cutout, between the Bordello, and the abductors. A call is placed when they have a package to deliver. 
BURCH ...you going to stake out the phone...? 
MILLER (nods) We have a watch on the phone. More importantly: N.S.A. reports calls placed to that phone. Regularly. 
BURCH They can track calls to a payphone? 
MILLER In this case they can. 
BURCH How? 
MILLER They were made from a Federal Prison. (he gestures to the Aide, who shows to Burch and the camera a photo of a smiling man in his forties, in an expensive suit. Of photo:) This is Eli Assani. He is a Lebanese National, serving life without, for kidnapping. He was the head man in a white slavery scheme. 
BURCH And where is he? 
MILLER He's in Lewisberg. We have a Plan... (pause) I hesitate to... 
BURCH Give it to me... 
ANGLE, on an Aide who comes in and passes a piece of paper to Miller, who reads it and looks up. 
MILLER They've got some action on the Payphone... 
Scott and Anton start to get to their feet. 
EXT. COPLEY SQUARE, DOWNTOWN. NIGHT. 
In the foreground we see a lonely payphone in the deserted square. It is festooned with ads for escort services. In the deep background we see the lights on in a corner bank building, and the cleaners at work. 
ANGLE INT. THE BANK. One of the cleaners polishes the counter in the bank. He wipes his brow and looks outside. 
ANGLE HIS POV. A sedan at the curb. Beyond it, a man, smoking a cigarette, stands near the payphone. 
The man looks at his watch, looks around, throws away the cigarette, and continues to pace. 
SCOTT ...breathe through your nose. 
Anton looks at Scott inquisitively, not sure he has heard right. 
SCOTT It stills the heartrate. (pause) You got my back. 
ANTON Sir, Yes, Sir. 
SCOTT (to himself) ...alright, then... 
ANGLE the Sedan, on the deserted highway. HOLD. We see another car come screaming up behind it, doing one-ten, a red light on the roof, flashing. 
ANGLE INT. THE SEDAN. A middle-aged man watches the other car come up, and disappear around a bend, going furiously fast. 
EXT. ESSEX BEACH. NIGHT. 
The margin of the scrubwoods, in the dunes. Scott and Anton, moving quietly through the woods. Scott points to Anton, indicating where he should stop. 
ANGLE, Scott's POV. A run-down beach house on a deserted cove. The blue light of a television flickering through the window. 
ANGLE, Scott peering through some scrubgrass. We see he holds a small handful of torn-off grass before and over his face, to break up his outline. He turns. To Anton, who stands next to him, holding a sniper rifle. He points out a position to Anton. 
ANTON ...you want me to Come Through the Door...? 
SCOTT (as he checks his weapons. He shakes his head.) Don't you go through the door without an Overwatch. 
He takes the small handful of grass and throws it into the air, watching the way the wind takes it. Scott gestures to Anton to take up a position beside a small run-down boat shed. 
We see Anton do so, then Scott moves across the dunes, to a small skiff. Which lies just across a little cove from the beach house. 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he moves down the dune, to the skiff. He opens his switchblade quietly, and severs the line holding the skiff to the dock. He gets into the skiff, and pushes it off, and we see it begin to drift across the little cove toward the beach house. 
ANGLE, on Anton, kneeling, beside the old boat shed, as he assumes a prone position, and sights his rifle in on the beach house. 
ANGLE, HIS POV. Through the sniperscope, the house, the television, flickering in an empty living room. 
INT. THE WOODS. 
Anton, acknowledging the command. He finds a vantage point, and assumes the prone position, covering the house with his rifle. 
ANGLE on Scott, surveying the beach house. 
ANGLE HIS POV. The dark beach house. 
ANGLE on Scott, as he moves across the lawn, and to a back door. He removes his switchblade, opens it, and uses it to jimmy the screen latch. He replaces it, and takes out a set of lock picks, and begins to work on the door. We faintly hear the sound of a television. 
ANGLE INT. THE BEACH HOUSE. We hear the sound of the TV and faintly, see a blue glow from a room or two down the hall. 
ANGLE on Scott, entering the kitchen, where he looks down at the various dirty plates and cups on the table. 
ANGLE on Scott, coming through the door. As he moves, flat to the wall. Camera follows him past the doorway, beyond which we see the TV on low. Scott looks in, and finds it empty. 
ANGLE on Scott, as we follow him into the bedroom. It is empty. 
HOLD on Scott, looking around. 
ANGLE, as he comes back into the living room. He stops. We see something beyond him. 
ANGLE HIS POV. A small boat some twenty yards from the house. Out near the water. 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he starts to open the rear, sliding glass door which will lead him out to the boat. 
Behind him, we see the MAN FROM THE SEDAN open the front door of the house, and begin to enter. Scott hears him, and turns. 
MAN FROM THE SEDAN (as he sees Scott) ...what the fuck...? 
SCOTT ...I heard the TV, so I came in... (pause) 
The Sedan Man is put a bit off, as the comment makes no sense. Scott uses the moment to advance toward the man. 
SCOTT ...what the hell you got the TV on for, there's nobody here...? (the man puts up his hands) I don't wanna hurt you. Why would I hurt you? I just wanna know why the TV's on. 
ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Where we see the man, and Scott. We see the scene in green, through a sniperscope. 
ANGLE, on Anton, looking through the scope. 
ANGLE CU Anton, as he sees something in the scope. 
ANGLE, in the house. Scott advancing toward the man. 
SCOTT ...I just wannit to know, I just came to ask you that question... 
BURCH Yeah, well. He may have to be a little more than On the Team... (pause. After considering) I've been speaking to the father. (pause) 
Burch walks a few steps away. Thinking. Scott looks at Anton, questioning. 
BURCH (pause) What about if we had to go "off the meter"? 
SCOTT ...With the Mission, sir. 
Burch thinks for a moment. And then draws Scott aside. Burch glances over at the television, spewing information about Laura Newton, and shakes his head with disgust. 
BURCH (to himself) ...I'm out of time... 
He turns back to Scott. And gestures him into a small room, and closes the door. 
BURCH ...man to man. 
SCOTT The door's closed, Sir. 
BURCH I. Need. To Ask You. To do something. (he is hard-pressed to continue) 
SCOTT I am here to get the girl back. 
Burch thinks a moment, he rubs his face, and shakes his head, and looks up as if to say "This is all we have, this is the best we have". Pause. He nods, as they do not move. 
Burch takes out a photo of a bearded middle-eastern looking man in a business suit, and another, in a mugshot marked "Lewisberg Federal Penitentiary". 
BURCH This man...Placed a phonecall. Yesterday. From the phonebank at Lewisberg. To the Copley Payphone. (pause) Here's the cut-off-point... (he looks meaningfully at Scott. Pause) ...here it is: This man, Eli Assani, is to be transported, tomorrow, Wednesday, with another convict. A Man on Death Row. For their medical procedures...Now: 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD. DAY. 
A Police Cruiser coming quickly down a two-lane, deserted road. 
ANGLE INT. THE CRUISER. A road sign reads "Just Two Miles To 'The Owl', Rest Stop, Restaurant, Gas-Diesel". 
ANGLE EXT. THE OWL. Rest Stop. A run-down rural gas station, restaurant. Off to the side we see the cruiser coming down the road. As a roughly-dressed man runs out of the restaurant, carrying a full paper bag in his hand. The Cruiser, unseen by the man, pulls up to the gas pump, and the Trooper starts to get out of the driver's seat. When gunfire erupts from the restaurant. People are shooting at the fleeing man. A man opens the door of the restaurant and fires at the roughly-dressed man in a very urban leather jacket, who returns fire. Glass breaks in the windows of the restaurant. 
The roughly-dressed man runs to his car, an 80's Pontiac, parked near the pumps. The man in the doorway fires again, and the windshield of the Pontiac blows out and a tire bursts. The roughly-dressed man returns fire, and the man in the doorway falls. The roughly-dressed man turns to see that the Trooper is out of his Cruiser, and is about to fire at him. The roughly-dressed man drops his satchel, and fires at the Trooper, who falls. 
The paper bag has fallen to the ground and burst, and currency is spilling out of it, and being taken on the wind. The roughly-dressed man frantically begins to try to scoop it up and into his jacket. 
ANGLE CU on this man, who we now see is SCOTT. He stands around, and moves to the fallen Trooper. He strips the keys from the Trooper's keyring, and looks up. Feeling someone gazing at him. 
ANGLE HIS POV. In the car, two convicts, a Heavyset Man and ELI ASSANI, the middle-eastern man we saw in the mugshot. He is holding his neck, which is bleeding copiously. 
We see the back window behind him, shattered by gunfire. 
ANGLE on Scott, who gets into the car, takes the keys he took from the Trooper, and begins screaming off down the highway. 
LOW ANGLE, showing the car taking a turn vastly too fast, the car careens up on two wheels, rights itself, fishtails, corrects, and disappears in the distance. 
ANGLE INT. THE CAR. Scott driving steals a look back at Assani, in the back seat, whimpering. 
SCOTT Shut up. 
The Police Radio chatters: "Two Twelve Sierra, come back...Two Twelve Sierra, come back, we have your request for Code Seven...please come back with your Twenty." 
HEAVYSET CONVICT Yeah, two twelve sierra took all the 20 he's gonna take...Oh, man, you left him there... 
ANGLE on Scott driving. He looks behind him. 
ANGLE, POV. In the rearview mirror. A dust cloud settling over the deserted highway. 
ANGLE INT. THE OWL. Various techies, in the kitchen, monitoring the broadcast of the microphone in the Police Car, Anton among them. The Trooper comes in, taking off his bullet-proof vest, and sits to listen, where we find Miller and his Agents. The 'Restaurant Owner', who we now see is Anton, takes off his jacket and his bullet-proof vest and picks a slug, fired by Scott, out of the center of the vest. 
HEAVYSET CONVICT (V.O.) ...yeah. You marked him Paid in Full... 
ASSANI (V.O.) ...you got to pull over, you got to stop...I'm bleeding. 
ANGLE INT. THE POLICE CAR. 
HEAVYSET CONVICT Yeah, he done ate from the tree of knowledge, our Sierra Two Twelve. 
ASSANI ...help me... 
SCOTT Shut up. 
ANGLE, EXT. COUNTRY ROAD. The car comes to a panic stop, fifty yards beyond a turnoff onto a dirt road. The car is put in gear, backs up, and takes the road. 
EXT. FARM ROAD. DAY. 
The car comes quickly up a small farm road, we see a run- down barn, and a farmhouse, washing on the line. Scott pulls the car into the barn, next to an old pick-up truck. He gets out of the car, we hear Assani in the backseat calling to him. 
SCOTT Well, that's a long way from Tiperrary, pal... 
ASSANI ...what do you have here...? 
SCOTT Yeah, but I'm not cut out, to live in a fucken tent. (Assani laughs) 
ASSANI If you think you can imagine luxury...I am here to tell you, my friend... (he smiles broadly) 
SCOTT Well, may it Just Be So... 
ASSANI When we get to Maskala... 
SCOTT And, now, what's Maskala...? 
ASSANI ...when we get to Dubai, better... 
SCOTT What's Maskala...? 
ASSANI ...that's where we clean them up. We ship them Rough, we make them Smooth, and everybody's happy. 
SCOTT Well, then, you're a philosopher...huh...? How 'bout making me happy tonight... 
ASSANI If there's a girl, in the pipeline, tonight, you shall have her, what do you say to that? 
SCOTT ...I say you're a stone cold whoremaster... 
Assani joins with him in the joke, nodding his assent. 
ASSANI No, no baby. Take it to the    bank. The Arabs, Man. All the oil    - all the money in the world.    What can't they have? Booze and    Pussy. How do they get it...? 
SCOTT You the candy man? Is that it? 
Assani begins to swoon. He puts his hand to his neck, and it comes away covered in blood, where it was cut by the glass fragment. 
SCOTT Ah. Hell... 
ASSANI Yeah, no. I'm bleeding bad here, friend... 
SCOTT (he looks over) Yeah, we just, we got to get some...yeah, you need, all we need, some tailoring tools. 
ANGLE, Sedan. Holding Anton and several agents, listening to the broadcast from Scott's car. 
SCOTT Yeah, in my wishlist, we had a drugstore, get us some morphine, some... 
ANGLE EXT. ANTON'S CAR. As it increases speed. 
ANGLE INT. SCOTT'S CAR. As he tries to staunch the fellow. Scott steers with one hand. And turns off the highway at an exit, showing two miles to a town. 
INT. SMALL TOWN PHARMACY. DAY. 
Scott, dressed in the farm clothes that he took off of the line. Scott is buying supplies. On the counter we see bandages, hydrogen peroxide, etc. Behind the counter we see a newscast, showing a picture of Laura Newton, in long blonde hair, and a woman is doing a talking-head about fashion. 
TV WOMAN ...America's Number One Redhead, "She Sets the Style, She Brings a Smile", she's Betty co-ed, in College, and she's off for what her father's office says is an "extended sailing weekend". (the screen shows a sailboat) With "person or persons unknown"...yo ho, yo Ho...she "old" enough for that, our "Little Red Riding-Hood", Cathy...? 
Scott ignores the screen. 
ANGLE EXT. THE STORE. In back, Assani is sitting in the pickup, a woman driving another beat-up pickup pulls into the lot, there is a shotgun in the rack by the rear window. Assani crouches lower, to prevent being seen. 
ANGLE INT. THE STORE. As Scott is checking out. A policeman enters from the police car. We see it is Anton. 
ANGLE. On Scott, as he moves to the back of the store, to meet Anton. Scott looks inquisitively at him. 
ANTON (whispers) ...the helo just went down... 
SCOTT ...don't whisper to me, Baby, it draws heat. What helo? 
ANTON ...the assault helicopter. You've got no backup, at the house. (beat. Scott nods) You'll be in there, alone, the first few minutes... 
SCOTT Well, there you go, then. 
ANTON You said "Never go in without an overwatch". 
SCOTT That's all fine, lad, "But this is the fleet". 
ANTON You know you deliver him in the door, you know they're going to waste you. 
SCOTT ...gimme whatever nine mil you've got... 
Anton takes out the magazines in the pouches on his belt. And starts to strip off the rounds. 
SCOTT ...just gimme the mags... (Anton does so) ...gimme your piece. 
JIM (TALKING HEAD NEWSCASTER) The death, just reported, the death of Laura Newton. The... the... 
ANGLE, on the TV. On two bodies being taken from the water by medical technicians. 
ANGLE, the woman, as a shot of the political man we saw earlier in the newspaper, comes on the screen. 
TALKING HEAD WOMAN ...her father, on the eve of the campaign... (we switch to a video shot of this man, waving off reporters) Jim, can there be any doubt... 
JIM Tracey, the Secret Service, for obvious reasons, their records, the DNA, fingerprints... the... and, she had just been in the water a scant, less than four hours, the...apparently the boat swamped... she - 
TRACEY She was sailing with...? 
JIM With her professor, Professor...? (the video shows the Professor) 
ANGLE, on Tracey, as she is overcome, and tries to steady herself. 
ANGLE, on Miller, and the Troopers in the room. Miller looks away from the screen, to Scott. 
TRACEY ...a Tragedy, such as this. 
JIM ...particularly. Particularly, Tracey, coming, right at the start of his Campaign... 
An insert of Laura's father, his sportcoat slung over his shoulder, comes onto the screen. 
TRACEY Will he delay the start of the Campaign? 
ANGLE. On Scott. As he is found, standing, near the television. Off to the side, behind him, we see Miller, intently, on the phone, listening. 
JIM ...his grief... 
TRACEY ...he was very close to his daughter, wasn't he? 
JIM Well, indeed, he saw her, the day...that would be, the day before last. He was in Boston for the Strategy Meeting, and saw her then... 
TRACEY (sadly) ...and that would be the Last time...that... 
ANGLE. On Scott. As he is looking at the television, he shakes his head minutely, as if in a dialogue with himself. He walks back to the interrogation room. 
Scott sits heavily. Miller walks in and sits next to him. 
MILLER Her boyfriend called her a slut. She went off to prove it. Her and the Professor. Coked up, boat capsized...Both bodies washed up naked. Coast Guard dressed 'em up...full of Ecstasy... 
SCOTT ...he killed her... 
MILLER (shrugs, meaning "who knows") He was fucking her, they're stoned...the boat capsized... 
Miller looks down at the artifacts. 
MILLER (almost to himself) ...so much death. 
SCOTT (philosophically, as if summing the whole thing up) ...rock crushes scissors... 
We see Miller leave, as Scott turns away, and lights a cigarette. Miller turns back. 
MILLER I'm sorry about your man. 
SCOTT He isn't my man, Sir. He's a trainee. 
Beat. Miller leaves the room. Scott hangs his head with weariness. 
INT. GOVERNMENT TRANSPORT PLANE. NIGHT. 
Anton, in bandages, in a bunk in the transport plane. Scott, asleep, in a chair near him. 
ANGLE on Anton, as he comes awake. 
ANTON ...what time is it? 
SCOTT What do you care...? (pause. We see that Anton is having difficulty formulating his thoughts) 
ANTON I fucked up. 
SCOTT ...in what way was that? 
ANTON (groggily, as he tries to move, to draw closer to Scott) ...but I was trying to help. (Scott reacts to Anton's pain.) 
SCOTT What? Do you want some more Dope? Whaddaya want, a Dr. Pepper...? 
Scott takes a pill vial from Anton's jacket. Takes out a pill, and administers it to him. 
ANTON ...but I was trying to help. 
The Trainee lets his attention drift for a second, in the direction the Lecturer has pointed. And the Lecturer screams, steps in, disarms the Trainee, throwing him to the mat. As the Trainee picks himself up the Lecturer turns to the class. 
LECTURER There are two ways to fight, you can fight fair, or you can fight to win. 
The Trainee puts his hand to his head, and discovers he is bleeding. The Lecturer nods his permission, and the Trainee walks to a water cooler, next to which Scott is standing. Scott looks at the shamed Trainee. 
SCOTT Don't you study knife fighting, son. You Learn to Kill. And then, f'you meet some other fellow, studied knife fighting, you send him to hell. 
ANGLE, on the Lecturer, who calls another Trainee up. 
LECTURER Next man: 
A Trainee stands. 
LECTURER Now: I want to see some evil intent. 
The Lecturer glances at Scott, and makes a small "have a drink" gesture. The Lecturer nods back "yes". Scott walks toward his car. 
EXT. "CONSTRUCTION GATE". DAY. 
The man inside the "construction booth" raises the barrier, and looks at Scott, who drives through. 
INT. ROADSIDE TRUCKERS BAR. NIGHT. 
The Lecturer (Grace) and Scott, in a booth drinking. 
Pause. 
GRACE Hey, fuck it, Huh...? 
SCOTT I've always thought so. 
Scott gestures for another round to the bartender. Who is serving some rough trucker types, two of whom are at the bar with a couple of very attractive young women. One is a stunning redhead, who looks back at Scott. 
GRACE How'd the puppy like it out there? He piss in the punchbowl? 
SCOTT He did okay. 
GRACE I heard he caught poison ivy. 
SCOTT He did okay. Why? You goin' out? 
GRACE What? 
SCOTT You recruiting? 
GRACE Why would I be recruiting? 
SCOTT You speak Arabic, huh...? 
GRACE That's what the Arabs tell me. 
SCOTT You, reason I ask: you going in the Sandbox...? 
GRACE Ain't you overdue for some Down Time? 
SCOTT I'm just saying: 
Scott is distracted. He is watching the talking heads, on the bar TV talking about Laura Newton. We see the photos of her in high school, with her father in some African country, et cetera. 
ANGLE. On Grace, watching Scott. Who shakes his head very sadly. 
GRACE Yeah. You Marines are a weepy bunch of motherfuckers. (Scott nods minutely in acknowledgement. And returns to watching the television) ...you get a chance to bowl in that tournament...? 
ANGLE on Scott. Caught in the image of Laura Newton, on the television. 
SCOTT (to himself) ...beautiful girl... 
ANGLE on the truckers, near the television, looking at Scott. One comes over to him. 
TRUCKER ...you say something, Mister...? 
SCOTT No, I was looking at the television. (pause) I was talking to the television. (he turns to look at the girl) That girl's too good-looking for you anyway. What are you "rich"? What do you, "own" something? (MORE) 
SCOTT (CONT'D) (pause) Or are you "funny" or something...? (pause. Hold for a beat, on the confused face of the Trucker) Siddown. Lemme buy you a drink. 
INT. SLEAZY MOTEL ROOM. DAWN. 
A sound of a truck, coming down the highway. 
ANGLE, on the doorknob of the hotel room. We see several quarters stacked. As the truck sound comes closer, the quarters start to rumble, and fall off the doorknob. 
Anton gestures at the "Oilchange" sticker on the Mustang's windshield. 
ANGLE from INT. The Car. We see the sticker reading "Mike's Service Station, Bradford, PA". And beyond it, the actual old, tin sign of the garage, reading "Mike's Service Station". 
ANGLE, on Scott and Anton. 
SCOTT Well, I guess I'm not as smart as I thought I was. (pause) 
ANTON I need to talk to you. 
A beat. Scott shakes his head, as if in a sad comment to himself. He sighs. 
EXT. RURAL STREET. DAY. 
Anton and Scott walking down the street. 
ANTON I saw the sign. 
SCOTT "You saw the sign". You were up for a week, you coulda seen Jack Ruby, you don't know what you saw...your first-time-out. 
ANTON I saw the sign. 
SCOTT ...then, you tell me: you saw the sign, how is it, they found the girl, the DNA...why would they do that...? Her father? Her father would do that to her? 
ANTON ...maybe he doesn't know... 
SCOTT Well. You're living in a fairyland of your Own Devising. You're seeing snakes. (pause) 
ANTON Who's going to Dubai...? (pause. Scott hesitates) They've got a white slave ring, in Dubai, with American girls there - are they going in? (pause) Are they sending you in...? (pause) Ask them... (pause) 
SCOTT You Got. To Leave it for your Betters. 
ANTON Ask them. 
SCOTT Why would you want to know? (pause) Listen up, Pal. THEY don't go through the door. WE don't ask why. That's not a COST, it's a Benefit. Because we Got to Travel Light. You wanna lose sleep over it, get over it, or get out. (hold. pause) You wanted to go Through the Looking Glass. How was it? Was it more fun than Miniature Golf...? 
ANTON I want a favor. 
SCOTT Why would I do you a favor? 
Two old ladies come down the small main street. 
OLD LADY Morning, John, who's your friend...? 
SCOTT Fella wants to buy my car. 
The old ladies walk on. Pause. 
ANTON I saved your life. 
SCOTT Well what were they paying you for...? 
ANTON Bobby, I saw the Sign... 
SCOTT My name ain't Bobby. (pause) 
ANTON I saw the sign. (he draws the Picasso sign in the dust on the window of the country store) I Saw it. At the beach house. (pause) I'm going back. 
SCOTT Back? 
ANTON To the beach house. 
SCOTT They took it apart with a tweezers. (Anton shakes his head) 
ANTON She was there. The Girl was There. I'm going back. (pause) I want you to do something. 
SCOTT What would that be? 
ANTON The Secret Service Agent. Offed himself. 
SCOTT ...he was off boffing his girl. 
ANTON He shot himself with a hide-out pistol. 
SCOTT Yeah? 
ANTON Who frisked the sonofabitch? (pause) You ask them. 
ANGLE, on Scott, obviously off-balanced by the question. Hold. 
INT. GOVERNMENT OFFICE BUILDING. DAY. 
DRIVER ...rather you didn't smoke in here. 
Scott gets out of the car. 
ANGLE, on Scott, who takes out the Anton "Rogers Rangers" card. He motions the driver to pass him a phone and Scott looks at the number on the card and dials. 
Beyond him we see, just at the limits of the gravesite. Holding himself apart. A young man in a raincoat. The young man turns at the sound of a limo driving up. 
ANGLE Scott, looking at the limo. Out of the limo, which stops near the grave, we see Burch emerge. There is a susurrus among the crowd, which, visibly, straightens a bit, at the honor of Burch's presence. We see Burch walk to the gravesite, and have a word with the widow. Burch puts his hands on her shoulders and comforts her. 
ANGLE, on Scott, looking at the man in the raincoat. We hear rifle fire, and Scott flinches. 
ANGLE his POV. The Marine Honor Guard, rendering a salute. We see a Marine bear the flag to Burch, who presents it to the widow. He shakes several hands, and then moves off, back to the limousine. He beckons Scott over to him. 
ANGLE, Scott and Burch, walking through the cemetery. Burch shakes his head. He hands Scott the program from the funeral, and reluctantly begins. 
BURCH I put myself in your hands. Didn't I...? 
SCOTT I do not follow you, sir. 
BURCH I reached out to you. (pause) I put my life into your hands. I entered into a conspiracy with you. To commit Murder. Because it needed to be done. (pause) I trusted you with my life. 
SCOTT I would never betray you, sir. 
BURCH (waving his assurances away) I trusted you with my life. And yet you cannot trust me. (pause) There are things you have not been told. That's right. (pause) And now you're all out-of-line, "Play me or trade me..." (pause) 
ANGLE, on the two. 
BURCH (almost as if against his better nature) There is an Arab World. To penetrate it makes trying to join the Mafia look like a walk in the park. How would you do it, Scott? (pause) We're dying. We're at war. And we have no intelligence. How Would you do it? How would you infiltrate their clan structure? Where is the interface? (pause) It's at the whorehouse. That's where they go to get frisky, and that's where we listen to them. (MORE) 
BURCH (CONT'D) For the few, priceless hints that we get from that fucking sandpile. (pause) Had the girl been there, we would have moved heaven and earth - you know we would, and, we would have got her out. She was not there. She got drugged up and fell off a boat, and drowned. She's dead. (of the funeral) That man, (Burch gestures at the photograph-on-the- easel, of George Gaines, the Secret Service man, which stands by the head of the grave) That man a sworn office of the Secret Service, went to get laid, and she died. And you are risking the lives of men and women in the field, because you won't take orders. How are you better than him? Yes. You had best look sheepish. What the fuck have you got to say? 
SCOTT No excuse, sir. 
BURCH You're goddam right. (pause) Now: where's this new kid who got you all bothered. Where's your partner? 
SCOTT ...I'll call him off. 
BURCH The fuck you will. You've got nothing to say to him. He's gone to the ground. Where is he...? 
ANGLE. Over the Honor Guard, packing up, we see Scott hand a scrap of paper to Burch, who makes one or two more points, to which Scott nods, submissively. Burch walks off. Camera follows the Honor Guard, down the path, toward Scott, who, passing, nods at them. 
HOLD on Scott. As he watches the widow, at the gravesite, being walked away to a limo by the pastor. He feels someone behind him and turns. 
ANGLE, SCOTT'S POV. A man in a raincoat, standing furtively, half-hidden by a tree, some distance off from the funeral, weeping. He holds a program for the funeral. 
ANGLE on the man in the raincoat, the funeral beyond him. He is obviously distraught, a rather slight young man in his thirties. He looks at Scott for a moment, and then turns away. 
ANGLE. On Scott. As he turns back to watching the end of the funeral. As the gravediggers begin their work. He sighs. And moves to a bench and sits. Looking at the gravediggers. 
DISSOLVE. 
EXT. DUSK. GRAVEYARD. 
Scott, still sitting on the bench. The gravediggers, finishing their work, begin to walk off, joking with one another. Scott stands, and turns, about to start out of the cemetery. He stops for a moment. 
ANGLE, HIS POV. The man in the raincoat, who is standing where last seen, looking at the burial. Walks toward the mound of earth, pauses for a moment, and then walks off. 
EXT. BUS STOP. DESERTED, SEMI-INDUSTRIAL AREA, ACROSS FROM THE CEMETERY. DAY. 
The raincoat man is standing waiting for a bus, at the bus stop, outside a working man's tavern. 
ANGLE, on Scott, looking at the man, still weeping. Scott walks up to the man. Each holds a copy of the program from the funeral. The man looks down at the program, and then up to Scott. 
SCOTT (beat) Terrible thing. (the man nods) Did you know him? 
The man nods. Beat. He turns back to Scott, looking for sympathy. Anguished. 
MAN Did you know him...? (Scott nods. Pause. Portentiously:) Where did you know him from? 
SCOTT (pause) ...you know. 
MAN (pause. Nods) He wasn't in the accounting office. You knew that... 
SCOTT Yes. I Did. 
The man begins weeping heavily. Scott puts his arm around him. 
MAN I didn't think, he told anyone what he did. Because...because... (he looks for sympathy) I... 
SCOTT A few of us knew. (pause) 
WOMAN Guess again, 'cause I'm the Secret Service, and you follow my directions or I will shoot you dead. Spread your hands to your sides, please... (Scott spreads his hands to his sides) Open them... 
He opens his hands to show the red crescent earring. We see the demeanor of the woman in back of him change, as she sees the earring. She comes up to Scott, and he turns around. She looks up, asking, mutely, what it means. 
INT. SMALL SANITORIUM ROOM. DAY. 
DONNY (sotto, unable to stop her invective) ...the motherfuckers pulled the Detail off of her...He was in town. Her father was in town, they pulled the Secret Service Detail off her, to take him tomcatting. He's been doing it for years. That's what they do. They turn the Secret Service into a bunch of pimps. He took her protection, she got snatched... 
SCOTT He'd let her die? 
A female Agent knocks at the door and sticks her head in and Donny gestures "rotate". 
FEMALE AGENT ...leaving the post... 
Donny gestures that she has heard. The Agent leaves and the door is closed. 
DONNY (meaning, "this is my surmise") The start of a campaign: Your daughter got kidnapped because you were out getting laid? 
SCOTT Her father would let her die...? 
DONNY Who knows if he knows. His 'people' would let her die in a heartbeat. 
SCOTT ...her mother...? 
DONNY (pause. She takes up the earring and she begins to weep. She looks beseechingly at Scott) I'm her mother... 
She takes out a small, tattered, cheap earring box. 
ANGLE INS. We see the empty place for holding two earrings, and a small arcade photo of a five-year-old Laura Newton, and this woman, Donny, fifteen years younger. They are hugging. Scott turns over the photo to read, in a childish scrawl, "Donny, you can keep the box, cause I'll never take them off". Donny starts to weep. 
SCOTT I need some money. (Donny looks up at him questioningly) I'm going to get the girl back. 
DONNY What can I do? 
SCOTT I need money. I need a lot of money. 
DONNY (of Mrs. Newton) I've been signing her checks for years. 
SCOTT Alright... (he scribbles a figure on a napkin) Can you go this high, that's what I need... 
DONNY (as   she looks down at the   figure on the paper) ...I...I   don't...is there anywhere   else you... 
ANGLE. Both look to the side. 
ANGLE, their POV. One of the Secret Service Agents, looking askance at Scott. Does a double-take. And begins to raise his cuff mike to his lips to speak. 
ANGLE, on Donny, as she sees this, and turns around. 
ANGLE, her POV. The empty room. Scott vanished. 
INT. NEW YORK CITY OFFICE BUILDING. DAY. 
A very beautiful young woman in a business suit, in an elevator. The doors open and Scott, dressed in a suit, gets in. He turns to face the front. They ride up in silence. 
The doors open on a mezzanine. There are several men at the end of the mezzanine. Scott starts to get out, and the girl tries to stop him. He shoves her roughly back into the elevator. Several of the men come toward Scott, and a large, portly businessman in his forties (AVI) calls them off. Scott comes forward. 
AVI Didn't they tell you not to come? 
SCOTT Well, I guess I wasn't paying attention. (pause) 
AVI Five years ago they told me you were dead. 
SCOTT You want to gossip, or you want to do business...? 
Avi motions Scott to come with him. 
ANGLE, Avi's hitters. One starts to take out a phone - Avi waves him to stop - HOLD on the hitters. 
ANGLE, Avi and Scott, as they sit, near the edge of the mezzanine. 
AVI Bobby; this is an American girl...? 
SCOTT If that were so? 
AVI If that were so, why don't your people go and fetch her...? 
What if I'm speaking for them...? 
Avi nods, meaning "yeah, sure". 
AVI ...they send a hitter to negotiate...? (pause) My question is: have you forgot your catechism...? 
ANGLE EXT. THE STREET. We see the car slow almost to a stop, Scott emerges from his doorway. As the car's rear door is opened, Scott gets in. 
INT. WAREHOUSE OFFICE. DAY. 
Avi and Scott, at a small table. 
AVI Maskala is a suburban villa, in Dubai. The Friends of your Friend, (he gestures at a photo of Assani) Operate there, if you will, a "halfway house". For the young women they have induced, coerced or drugged into spending their short lives. As the whores of Arabian tourists. Of late the girls have been, in the main, from the former Sov-Bloc. Now and again, a North American Girl, if she is exceedingly lovely,...blonde, usually blonde... (he passes the photos of very beautiful young girls across the table, to Scott) Will, unfortunately, find her way to Dubai. They travel drugged, they are - (he searches for the word) - "tidied up", and sold. For some reason, most of them are sold to Yemen. (pause) The girls are generally held, in Dubai, until the end of the month. (he checks his watch and looks significantly at it) When the Merrymakers fly in to examine them. And take their purchases home. 
SCOTT ...and then? 
AVI (shrugs) That is "and then". (pause) This is a floor plan of the building where the girls are held, this is the security arrangements, this is the watch plan. (MORE) 
AVI (CONT'D) (he checks his watch and raises his eyebrows) The girls are taken from the house in Maskala, to the Royale Hotel, I presume you will hit them in transit...? 
Scott opens another envelope which Avi has passed him. As he looks at the documents he pours out. 
SCOTT (reads) ..."Jameson Construction"...They know we're there...? 
AVI I hope not. (he shows documents to Scott) The conex container for the exfil, also Jameson Construction. (he gestures at the materials on the table) A passport for the Young Girl... (he shrugs) Between fifteen and twenty-five, they all look alike. 
SCOTT (as he looks at the passport) Is that your experience...? 
AVI Yes. It is. Nonetheless, we tried to match it to a Current Photo... 
ANGLE, on Scott, as he looks, questioningly at Avi. Avi takes a photo from his desk and passes it to Scott. It shows, through a long lens, blurry and grainy, a photo of what is obviously the platinum-haired Laura Newton, sitting on a bed, in a barred room. 
AVI ...she was there twelve hours ago. 
SCOTT Who took the photo? 
AVI (shrugs) How would I know...? (pause) 
SCOTT What does the bonus cost? 
AVI (shrugs) A gesture of Friendship. But. We thought: if you see some of the Yemenins - (he shows Scott candid photos of several middle-aged, bearded middle-eastern looking men) Any of these, in particular...would you say Hello to them? 
Scott scoops up the documents, and stands. 
SCOTT Who else have you done a favor for, Avi? 
Avi shakes his head, and wags his finger, as if to say, "No, in all sincerity..." 
AVI Bobby: the world runs on manners. 
Beat. Scott takes an envelope, and hands it to Avi, who opens it. He opens his mouth to speak. 
SCOTT The last third on exfil, in Geneva. Me and the Girl. As agreed. 
AVI That's not what I was going to say. 
SCOTT What were you going to say...? (pause) ...the Last Third in Geneva... (he exits) 
EXT. ROOFTOP, DUBAI. DUSK. 
Scott, on a rooftop, behind a raised elevator housing. Scott takes out a pair of binoculars, and Scott leans around the elevator housing. 
ANGLE HIS POV. Across the way, the window, and the ornate scrollwork bars, in which we, earlier, saw the photo takes on Laura Newton. 
ANGLE on Scott, as he comes back behind cover, and nods to himself, picking up his yellow bag. 
ANGLE EXT. DUBAI STREET. Scott, walking down the street, beyond him a building with an ornate scrollwork barred gate over its courtyard door. In the courtyard beyond, two Mercedes 600's. 
As Scott walks past the trelliswork it begins to open. A delivery truck is ushered through the gate, by an armed guard. Scott stops, to let the truck pass. 
ANGLE HIS POV. As he turns his head to the side. 
ANGLE HIS POV. Walking from one outbuilding, across the courtyard, beyond the gate, accompanied by a minder, is Laura Newton. She is obviously drugged, disoriented, and is held up by the guard. He gets into a conversation with a woman, dressed as a matron, who comes out of the building they have just vacated. And she stands, for an instant, untended. 
ANGLE on Scott, the gate open, as the gate guard ushers through the delivery van, and Laura Newton stands several yards away. 
ANGLE XCU, Laura Newton, as she looks in his direction, and her eyes begin to focus, as if trying to make sense of what she is seeing. 
ANGLE, her minder, who reacts to a change in her attitude, and looks at her, and, then, follows the direction of her gaze to the gate. 
ANGLE HIS POV. The delivery truck coming through the gate, as the gate closes behind it. The street beyond it, empty. 
ANGLE INT. THE COURTYARD. As the delivery truck pulls in, and Laura, escorted by her guard, is taken back into the main house. She turns to look back, groggily, wonderingly, at the street, and is pushed into the door. As she does so, we see the delivery truck pull up to the spot she just vacated, and the delivery man gets out and opens a rear door, on which we see scrawled, in the dirt, the "Picasso" symbol. 
ANGLE EXT. DUBAI STREET CORNER. Scott turns the corner, and gets into a car, driven by Jones, which comes to the curb. 
ANGLE INT. THE CAR. In the backseat, Scott, another man sitting next to him, SMITH, dressed as a construction worker. The man starts to speak. And Scott shushes him, takes out a notebook and a pencil, and begins to make notes. 
He hesitates for a moment. We hear another explosion, he nods, as if to say "That's what we're waiting for", and passes her out of the window, and begins lowering her to the ground. 
ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Laura, on the rope, reaching the ground. 
ANGLE INT. THE ROOM. Scott, as he turns to the sound of the door opening, two men come through the door, and he shoots them. 
ANGLE EXT. THE BUILDING. Scott puts Laura into the SUV and gets behind the driver's seat. He puts the car in gear, and it begins to drive off. 
ANGLE INT. THE CAR. Laura turns to face him. 
LAURA ...they said they were going to take care of me... 
SCOTT I'm going to take care of you. You hold on, now. (as Scott drives he reloads his weapons) 
LAURA (lazily) Who are you? 
SCOTT ...you remember, Baby, we went to high school together... (pause) You dropped your earring. 
She shakes her head. Drugged. Trying to make sense of the proceedings. 
SCOTT You're Picasso, right...? That's who you are... 
He draws the Picasso sign on the windshield, she looks at it, having trouble focusing. 
LAURA ...they're going to send me to a Party. 
SCOTT No, Baby, you're going Home. (pause) You're just taking the long way home. 
ANGLE EXT. THE CAR. Moving through the streets. The airport just becoming visible in the background. 
INT. BARE ROOM. DUBAI. NIGHT. 
Laura, asleep, at a small cardtable. Out of the window we see an expanse of desert and scrub. Her head is down. Scott enters the room, he moves a chair in front of the door, moves to Laura, and manhandles her to a small cot, and closes the shutters to the window. 
SCOTT ...I told you to stay on the bed. 
We see her wake and look around, trying to place herself. 
ANGLE on Scott, as he takes out a notebook and begins to make notes in it. 
SCOTT ...you're going travelling. 
LAURA ...what...? 
SCOTT ...we're going to take a little trip. 
She takes out a crumpled pack of cigarettes, and extracts the last one. She takes out a match. 
SCOTT ...put that away. 
LAURA ...I need a smoke. 
SCOTT Y'can't smoke it. American tobacco. Smell. Carry. In the desert air. 
He looks down his list, and nods. He takes a bandana from his pocket and hands it to her. 
SCOTT Put that on. Over your head. 
LAURA Whatsamatter, you don't like Blondes...? 
SCOTT Whole world likes Blondes. That's why you're here. Put the bandana on. 
LAURA (as she tries to light the cigarette) I need a smoke. (He takes it away from her, and crumbles it.) ...gimme the fucken smoke. 
He shushes her, and moves to the window. 
ANGLE, EXT. The window. The first gleam of dawn. And, far off, a Muezzin is heard chanting morning prayers. Laura moves toward him, unbuttoning her blouse. 
LAURA I could make you give me the smoke. 
He slaps her lightly in the face. 
SCOTT Keep it together. (he takes a small hypodermic kit) Keep it together, or I'm gonna give you a shot and carry you out. 
She reacts violently to the sight of the needle. Beat. Then, she sits on the bed and cries self-pityingly. 
LAURA Nobody Cares about me... 
Hold. On Scott. And we take him back to a small shelf near the door. He takes down what we see is an ashtray, overfull with yellow-brown cigarette butts. He takes the ashtray to the small table, takes out his knife, and begins shredding the butts, and gathering the tobacco into a pile. 
SCOTT ...that's right... 
ANGLE INT. THE CARGO HANGAR. Scott and Laura, who now has on the mechanics coveralls. 
ANGLE Scott, as he looks out of the hangar door. To his right, the plane with Stoddard and his men, to his left, the "Global News" bizjet, its hatchway staircase, just descending. 
ANGLE on Scott, as he looks at his watch. He turns to Laura. 
SCOTT A little walk-in-the-park. (he points her to the News jet) See there...? 
ANGLE EXT. THE NEWS BIZJET. Where a man in a safari jacket, and a woman emerge from the plane, and glare at the sun. We see this man consult his watch. 
ANGLE, on Scott and Laura, as he walks her out of the hangar, and towards the news bizjet. In the B.G. We see Stoddard, and his men, at their plane. Another car pulls up to Stoddard, disgorging a man, who goes to conference with Stoddard. 
ANGLE, these two men. 
SECOND MAN (giving his report) ...all of the passenger terminals, and all access-points to the Cargo and General Aviation... 
LAURA (groggily, as in a dream) No, you know what my mistake was...? 
SCOTT (as he looks around) ...what was that...? 
He stops and picks up a pair of "paddles" from their position, leaning against the nose wheel of a plane. They walk on. In the BG we see Stoddard and his crew, searching. 
SCOTT ...what was your mistake...? 
LAURA (from a distance, as she begins to laugh, as at a great private joke; she stops walking) ...you think we bring our troubles on ourselves...? 
SCOTT I'm certain of it. 
She starts laughing, getting hysterical. 
SCOTT No, no...come on baby...come on, come on girl: just walk to the plane: Just Get On the Plane...WALK TO THE PLANE... 
She starts to break free and Scott manoeuvres her into a small hangar area. She is struggling mightily. Scott has his hand over her mouth. 
ANGLE. We see their feet moving through a pool of oil on the concrete floor - we see she loses her footing. We see Scott tighten his grip on her, and is furiously trying to calm her. 
SCOTT Shussh, baby... shussh... shussh... it's going to be alright... 
We see him work a small hypodermic kit from the pocket of his jacket. We see Laura see it, and her eyes grow wide. 
SCOTT This's going to make Everything Allright... 
Laura reacts to the hypodermic, which Scott is bringing toward her. And screams. 
LAURA No! 
EXT. THE HANGAR AREA. 
We see Stoddard, and his men, about to get into their Jeep, stop, and turn at the sound. 
ANGLE INT. The Hangar Area. Signs all over marked in Arabic and English - "Petrol - No Smoking!!" 
As Scott lunges after Laura, the door, behind her bursts open, and Stoddard and an accomplice enter, placing Laura, in the midst of the hangar, between Stoddard and Scott. Who stands in front of a large tanker labelled "Aviation Gasoline". 
STODDARD Leave her Alone. (to his men) Don't shoot him, don't shoot, you'll blow the thing sky high... 
SCOTT Laura... 
STODDARD Thank God we Found you. You know me. I work for Mister Burch. I've met you... 
ANGLE on Laura, standing between the two men. She is completely confused. She looks from one to another. 
LAURA (drugged and groggy) He said that he came to get me... (she shakes her head in disbelief. Then she starts to walk a step toward Scott, then turns, and proceeds toward Stoddard.) 
STODDARD That's right, Laura...Walk away from him. Walk to the Plane...He can't hurt you now. Walk to the plane... 
He points at his bizjet, outside, on the tarmac. Laura walks, unsteadily, in the direction pointed, and we see a female attendant, in a vaguely military getup, get out of the plane, and begin to walk toward Laura. 
SCOTT (screams) No... 
He starts toward Laura. And Stoddard and his two men interpose themselves between Scott and Laura, who is approaching the plane. Stoddard's two men approach Scott. One draws a knife. 
ANGLE on Scott, who hangs his head, wearily. He looks down at his empty hands. 
ANGLE on the man with the knife, approaching him. 
ANGLE on Scott, straightening himself, as if submitting to the inevitable, as the man with the knife draws closer. He makes a thrust, and covers. Scott steps toward him and spits at him, full in the face. The man with the knife recoils for a moment, and Scott disarms him, throws him viciously to the concrete floor, and stomps on him. Scott bends to pick up the knife the man has dropped, and turns to face the other man. As he does so, he slips on what we see is a large pool of oil on the floor. He goes down heavily. And the second man steps into him as he falls, drawing his pistol. 
STODDARD DON'T SHOOT, DON'T SHOOT, DON'T SHOOT HIM IN HERE... 
The man uses the pistol to cuff Scott, who is attempting to rise to his knees, behind the ear. Scott falls. 
