SPARE ME 
FADE IN 
1     BLACK						    1 
The screen is black. Thunder rumbles. 
THEO (VO) When you hear thunder... 
A black bowling ball pulls away from the lens. The ball is in the hands of THEO SKINNER, an intense, handsome 28 year old man with sideburns dressed in worn bowling attire. 
THEO (VO) ...God is bowling. 
He holds the ball in front of him, wristbrace on, his face a study in concentration. 
CUT TO: 
CREDITS 
CUT TO: 
2     EXT. BRIDGE - DAY				     2 
An empty causeway spans a bay somewhere along the south shore of Long Island. The sky is overcast. SHEILA, a woman in her late twenties, wearing a full length heliotrope pleather coat over a waitress outfit, kneels in the middle of the road. A souped-up Vespa motor scooter stands nearby. 
KEN AND BARBIE 
Sheila holds a Bridal Barbie and Ken doll set. She sets them down on the road, pulls out a can of lighter fluid and soaks the dolls. She pulls out a bowling pin-shaped lighter and torches the nuptial tableau. 
3     INT. THEO'S CAR				       3 
Theo drives his ratty old American car along a highway. The car has Ohio plates. He sucks coffee from a 7-Eleven "Big- Swig" cup and examines a map. A yellow plastic "Bowler on Board" sign is stuck to a side window. Theo's music PLAYS. His eyes nod off, then snap awake. 
4     NIGHTMARE						4 
The screen is black, except for three circles in the middle of the screen. The light shining through them is snuffed out by three large pink objects. There is a loud POP, like a 
thumb being pulled out of a tight hole. 
BOWLING BALL A slow motion low tracking shot of a bowling ball hitting a polished lane. 
BOWLING PINS Close-up of the milky white surface of two bowling pins on opposite sides of the lane - a seven-ten split. The RUMBLING ball is heard in the distance like a furious hulking steamroller of doom. The pins begin to tremble, and then transform into a Bridal Ken and Barbie. The dolls burst into flame. 
BALL The ball blasts past the camera and metamorphoses into Theo's car. 
RAPID DISSOLVE TO: 
5     EXT. BRIDGE					 5 
Theo's sedan blasts past the camera down the empty road. 
BURNING DOLLS The flaming couple stand in the middle of the bridge. Theo's car hits the pair and they fly into the air in slow-motion. A distant SOUND of pins scattering is heard. The two dolls smoke as they spin into the sky, then hit the water with dual HISSES. 
THEO Thanks. 
ZEUS Zeus is on the sofa, GROWLING and tugging at Theo's bowling bag. The bag rips apart and the ball hits the floor. 
ORANGE WHIP Theo brings the drink to his lips. The ball rolls across the room. 
BUZZ The ball rolls into Buzz's feet. 
BUZZ This your lucky bullet? 
Buzz picks it up and reads the writing on the ball. He snaps a look into the kitchen, seeing the empty Drano and laxative cartons. Buzz slams the drink away from Theo's lips. The drink explodes across the room. Buzz is up on his feet. 
BUZZ (with intensity) Where'd you get this ball? 
THEO (stunned - looks at the mess on the floor, then at Buzz) It's mine. 
BUZZ Who gave it to you? 
THEO Grace Skinner. 
BUZZ (astonished) Grace Skinner. Who's Grace Skinner to you? 
THEO She's my mom. 
Theo stands and takes the ball from Buzz's hands. Buzz is in shock, staring at Theo. 
BUZZ (regaining his voice) Who are you? Who sent you here? 
THEO I'm your son. You're a hard father to find. 
MILLIE Son? 
BUZZ (to Millie) Millie, please. (to Theo) I don't have a son. I think you better leave now young man. Buzz gestures towards the front door. 
THEO (calmly) Grace Skinner Fazeli, you must remember her? 
Buzz takes Theo by the elbow to eject him from the house. 
BUZZ I don't know no Grace Skinner. 
THEO (pulls his arm away) You knew her. You married her in 1963. 
MILLIE Married? 
Buzz grabs a large bowling trophy and waves it at Theo. 
BUZZ You're a bullshit artist, that's what you are. You got no right to be here! Theo yanks the trophy away from Buzz. 
THEO I got a right. You're my father. 
BUZZ I ain't nobody's father! 
Theo hurls the trophy at Buzz. He ducks and the trophy sails into a large glass trophy case. Broken glass and trophies fly everywhere. 
MILLIE You tell Buzz I went to my sister's in Ronkonkoma. Oh, I'm sorry about trying to kill you last night, Theo. It was nothing personal. Millie puts on a pair of sunglasses and patches out in a cloud of gravel and dust. 
26     INT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 26 
A blender WHIRRS. Sheila, in her waitress uniform, carefully chops something. She watches an indoor motocross rally on the diner's color TV. 12-PACK, a hefty construction worker, sits at the counter. 
12-PACK Hey Sheila, how's that orange whip comin'? 
SHEILA (mimicking him under her breath) How's that orange whip comin'? 
THWAP! Sheila is dismembering a Ken doll with a big knife. She scoops the parts into the blender and switches from purŽe to frappŽ. 
12-PACK So, I heard Junior busted out again? 
Sheila puts the glass down in front of 12-Pack with a THUNK. 
12-PACK Hey Sheila, you can whip my oranges anytime. Sheila puts a Barbie head earring on her left ear. Buzz comes into the diner and slides into a booth. Sheila walks over with a pot of coffee. 
SHEILA Cup of joe Mr. Fazeli? 
BUZZ Yeah, and make it extra muddy, I didn't sleep a zee last night. Sheila fills a cup. Buzz lifts it to his mouth, his hands trembling. 
SHEILA You don't need coffee, Mr. Fazeli; you need a vacation. Sheila catches sight of Theo pulling into the parking lot. She puts a Ken head earring in her right ear. Buzz follows Sheila's gaze. 
BUZZ (groans) Some people will do anything for an autograph. Theo enters the diner and walks over to Buzz. 
THEO Millie left to stay with her sister in Ronkonkoma. 
BUZZ You know what a mixer ball is? It's like you, you come out of nowhere and upset things, scattering everything all over. Buzz grumpily waves at him to sit. 
THEO What are you doing over at the lanes that's so dangerous, Buzz? 
BUZZ You shouldn't listen to her, she's a nervous old Nellie. 
THEO She thinks someone's trying to kill you. 
BUZZ I couldn't pay someone enough to try to kill me. Sheila comes over to take their orders. 
BUZZ I'll have my usual please, Sheila. 
SHEILA Buzz Burger, side of 'cues. You haven't introduced me to your fan. 
BUZZ Sheila, meet...uh... (leans in to Theo, sardonically) I forget the name. 
THEO (uncomfortably) Theo. 
BUZZ Theo! This is Sheila Kastle, my partner's daughter. 
SHEILA (eyeing Theo up and down) You look like you're something on the lanes. 
BUZZ Theo's bowled on the tour. 
SHEILA Oh, a professional man. What'll you have? 
BREEZE Sorry Faz, we didn't know you was here. 
SID Buzz, Mr. Kastle wants to talk to you. 
BREEZE (to Theo and Buzz) Are you guys bruddas? 
The booth party is silent for a moment. Theo LAUGHS. 
BUZZ No, we ain't brothers. 
SID You know why we call him Breeze? 
Sid puts a hand near Breezes left ear and blows into Breeze's right ear. He makes fluttering motions with his hand as if wind was hitting it. Breeze's face breaks into a smile as he pushes Sid away. 
BREEZE Hey, cut it out Sid, that tickles. I'm serious! You guys are related, right? 
THEO He's my dad. 
Buzz flashes a warning glare to Theo. Sid grabs some of Buzz's french fries. 
BUZZ (slapping his hand) Get your own. 
BREEZE See that, toldja Sid. I knew I seen a resemblance. 
BUZZ Why don't you clowns get your whips and get lost. 
SID Look, Faz, Mr. Kastle was not his usual charismatic self today when he told us to tell you... (gazing artfully upwards and rubbing his chin) What was that he said...? 
BREEZE I remember, Sid! Mr. Kastle says he don't like no sticky fingers in the till. 
SID (exasperated) Pinhead! Don't just blurt it right out. 
Sheila comes over and PLUNKS down the three whips-to-go. 
BREEZE (to Sheila) Your pop said to put these on his tab. Sid gets up and jerks his thumb towards the door. 
SID So Buzz, let's skedaddle. Mr. Kastle is waiting. As Buzz gets up, Theo rises and steps between his father and the two sleazeballs. 
THEO I'm coming with you. 
Sid shies away from Theo, protecting his hand. 
BUZZ Easy. I got business to do, Theo. I'll come back and haunt you later. (drops a twenty on the table, pats Theo's cheek) Don't say I never gave you nothing. 
Buzz goes outside with a sleazeball on either side. Sheila takes the twenty dollar bill. Theo grabs his jacket and makes for the door. 
THEO (to Sheila) Do those two work for your dad or mine? 
SHEILA Mine, and they never tip. 
The sleazeballs hustle Buzz into the front seat of their car and patch out. 
THEO Do you know where they're taking him? 
KASTLE I'm sure you have Buzz. 
BUZZ Wish me luck. 
Buzz jogs out into a spotlight. 
KASTLE Break a leg... (sneers) ...partner. 
29     INT. DWARF BOWLING ALLEY				   29 
APPLAUSE erupts as Buzz appears in the spotlight. The dwarf bowling alley is a pungently smoke-filled room peopled with shady, washed-up bowlers sitting in chairs behind a bowling lane. The old-timers are shouting and pounding shots. 
BUZZ (over the PA) Greetings, ladies, gentlemen. (the place grows silent) My dentist told me this one the other day: How many bowlers does it take to screw in a lightbulb? 
AUDIENCE How many? 
BUZZ It takes three bowlers to screw in a lightbulb. One to hold the bulb, one to turn the ladder, and one to hold their balls. Thank you, thank you. Just throw money. 
CUT TO: 
30     EXT. BABYLON LANES - EVENING			   30 
Theo drives through the full parking lot of Babylon Lanes. He pulls around the back and sees dark figures slip into a back door. He parks his car, walks over to the now closed door. It's locked. Theo finds another entrance and sneaks in. He creeps his way through the darkened alley towards the sound of raucous partying. 
BUZZ (OS) Welcome to Buzz Fazeli's Dwarf Bowling, folks, where we bring you the finest in specialized bowling entertainment. 
THEO'S POV Through a crack in a door Theo can see Buzz standing in the spotlight. 
BUZZ I would like to draw your attention to the top of the lane. (a Casio drum roll PLAYS) Weighing in at sixty-nine pounds and standing exactly three feet - the diminutive dominatrix Teeny Weenie Tina the Terrible! The crowd CHEERS as the spotlight moves to Tina, a masked lady dwarf duded up in a combination black leather and cowhide western style S&M outfit. She CRACKS a whip and leers at the bowlers. They HOWL with excitement. 
BUZZ Don't be shy, folks! 
Tina straps into her customized skateboard. A drunken customer forks over a wad of bills, steps up and grabs hold of the mini-human projectile. 
BUZZ And - bowl 'er! 
Tina is hurled head-first towards the pins. The crowd goes wild. 
TINA'S POV The camera tracks low behind Tina as she crashes into the pins. 
31     INT. BABYLON LANES, BATHROOM			   31 
Theo sneaks into an empty bathroom. He hears voices and ducks into a stall. Sid and Breeze shove Buzz into the room. 
SID Seems to me like you ain't got much choice Buzz. 
Sid shoves Buzz over to Breeze, Breeze shoves him back. 
BREEZE You're between Miles Kastle and a hard place. 
BUZZ Aaay, hands off the tux! 
Sid checks under the stalls, sees Theo's feet and whips open the door. 
32     DWARF BOWLING ALLEY				  32 
Theo is dragged through the dwarf alley crowd. He has blood on his face. Half dazed, he looks up at all the distorted leering faces that peer down at him. The crowd cat-calls and laughs at Theo. 
33     EXT. BABYLON LANES, PARKING LOT - EVENING		33 
Theo is thrown onto the asphalt. Sid kicks Theo. 
SID You shoulda taken our advice, busyboy. 
34     EXT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 34 
Theo sits in his parked car outside the Peter Pan diner. Squinting in the bright light, he examines the cuts on his face in the sideview mirror. He is looking scruffier. He sees Sheila come out of the diner, start her scooter, and pull out into traffic. He follows her. 
35     EXT. BRIDGE					35 
He follows the Vespa at a discreet distance as Sheila drives over the bridge. The weather is windy and threatening. Thunder RUMBLES. 
36     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES				 36 
Theo pulls in next to Sheila's scooter under the big neon sign for Miles 'O' Lanes Bowling Center. With a huge CLAP of thunder and the SOUND of falling pins, the skies release a pounding downpour. 
37     KEN AND BARBIE, MACRO C.U.				 37 
Sheila's Vespa is parked in the handicapped space. The dolls are wired to the headset of the scooter. Large droplets of rain roll down their faces. 
38     INT. MILES 'O' LANES				 38 
Theo walks into an ultramodern eighty-lane bowling center, bowling bag in hand. A huge banner reads 'Mothers and Daughters Bowl Free Tonight!' The entire place is filled with pairs of moms and their daughters - bowling away in matching bowling attire. A three year-old girl stands staring at Theo. 
THEO Hello. 
LITTLE GIRL Waaaaaaaaah! 
A mom grabs the little girl and whisks her away. Theo surveys the alley and catches sight of Sheila bowling at the far end of the alley. 
39     LANE, SHEILA & LUNA				  39 
Sheila bowls with LUNA, a 30-ish black guy dressed in a Miles 'O' Lanes jumpsuit and wearing extensions in his hair. Sheila prods her friend when she sees Theo. 
SHEILA Luna, that's the guy. I saw him do this spooky bowling rain dance on the bridge. 
LUNA Typical. 
Theo walks over. Sheila presents Theo with her ball. 
SHEILA Here Theo, it's the Fazeli specialty; a seven-ten split. Theo looks down the lane and sees the two pins standing. 
THEO I'm not here to - I can't... 
Sheila can't release the ball from Theo's now-paralytic grip. 
SHEILA (knowing nod) Bowling block. 
KASTLE No pain, no gain! Keep trying the ice. Chin up, sweetie. (turning to Theo) This place is a bowling oasis. 
THEO It's very...clean. 
They pause and Kastle waves to some bowlers. 
MRS. JACKSON (OC) Hello, Mr.Kastle. 
KASTLE Hello, Violet. How's my favorite 'bowlerina' doing? 
MRS. JACKSON (OC) 
KASTLE You keep that up Carmelita and one day you'll be a champion just like Mr. Skinner here. What do you think, Theo? Think Carmelita's got the stuff? 
THEO That's some pinfall. Almost a 133 average. Her ball's flat, she needs to work on her spin control. 
KASTLE That's right, didn't you have a slight control problem in a recent tournament,champ? (to Carmelita) Now go take out your "big four", darling. (to Theo) Come on, we're making her nervous. 
They continue walking. 
KASTLE I get them while they're young. Builds loyalty. 
MRS. JACKSON (OC) She hit it, Mr. Kastle! 
KASTLE (waving over his shoulder) Four or five years when a girl like that's bowling on the pro tour for Team Kastle, she'll pay a handsome profit on my investment. 
THEO And the dwarf bowling? 
They stop, and Kastle pulls Theo over to an enormous aquarium near the lounge. 
KASTLE (making sweeping gesture) Think of this business like a big aquarium. You gotta have some sharks to eat the dirt at the bottom so the guppies can swim free at the top. (more) 
KASTLE Profits down there, philanthropy up here. (looks at Theo) Besides, it beats the pants off bingo. 
THEO Nice set-up. 
KASTLE If it springs a leak, it'll be because Buzz is making waves. 
THEO What if he wants to get out? 
KASTLE (chuckles) He's earned an early retirement. (sprays his mouth with Binaca) But enough about losers; Buzz Fazeli is history. Lets talk about your future. (puts his arm around Theo) I wanna show you something. 
42     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 42 
Kastle and Theo stand in front of the huge bank of video screens. 
KASTLE Rac. R-A-C. Renovate, Automate, Computerize. That, my boy, is the future. One of the monitors shows a little girl bowling. Her ball moves so slowly it barely tips over the first pin. Kastle hits a key and the pins explode in an emphatic strike. The little girl jumps with joy. 
THEO What ever happened to just bowling? 
KASTLE There's a lot of competition for amusement out there. You gotta adapt to survive. 
THEO I like the sport the way it is. 
SHEILA Everything has it's drawbacks. 
THEO Where did your brother escape from? 
SHEILA The mental hospital. 
THEO What does he do? 
SHEILA He follows me, he tries to have sex with me, and then they send him to the nut-hut for a while and then he gets out and then he follows me, he tries to have sex with me, they send him to the nut-hut for a while... 
THEO Whoa. 
SHEILA It's a vicious cycle. 
CUT TO: 
47     EXT. PARKING FIELD				   47 
Sheila and Theo motor across an empty beach parking field towards a lone station wagon. Swing-a-delic MUSIC drifts from the parked vehicle. 
47     EXT. STATION WAGON				   47 
Sheila pulls up beside the wagon. She leads Theo towards a group of partying people at the tailgate of the car; three white women, three white men and Luna. Luna pulls a rubber hookah hose out of his mouth and offers it to Theo. 
LUNA Hookah? 
THEO No thanks, I don't hookah. 
LUNA Theo, you ever do the 'Swing'? 
Theo shakes his head. 
SHEILA These guys all work at the alley, too. This is John, Susan, Jon, Suzanne, Jonathan, and Sue. Everyone welcomes Theo and Sheila. 
LUNA (screams) Dance Break! 
Luna throws himself into a wild body-whip as the music THROBS massively. 
EXT. DANCE 
Luna and Sheila do a wild jitterbug-derived Swing-a-Delic dance surrounded by weaving white folk. 
EXT. BARBECUE 
One of the guys is on crutches, has a neck brace, a chest cast, and one arm in a truss. He stands by the barbecue and flips burgers with his one free hand. Theo walks over to him. 
GUY Hey man, howyadoin'? 
He wiggles his hand out of the end of his cast. Theo shakes his fingers. 
THEO Don't tell me, John. 
JOHN Cool! 
SHEILA So, what about you? 
THEO Do I want you? 
SHEILA We'll get into that later. 
CUT TO: 
48     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 48 
Alone, Kastle stares at the bank of video monitors and runs a battery powered fuzzball remover around his collar. The monitors are deserted. Miles absently pans a camera over and then sits bolt upright. On the screen he can see Buzz Fazeli, in a room at Babylon Lanes, surrounded by large piles of cash, stuffing rolls of bills into hollow bowling pins. 
KASTLE (with rising anger) Why that filthy, slimey, double-crossing, misbegotten, two-faced, mangy, son-of-a- bitch bastard! 
The motor in the fuzz ball remover SHRIEKS as Miles squeezes it to death. It shatters in his hands. 
49     EXT. PARKING FIELD - NIGHT				 49 
Theo and Sheila lie on the roof of the station wagon. "Devil With The Blue Dress" by Shorty Long plays on the stereo. The rest of the party throws marshmallows at each other in the distance. 
SHEILA Theo, what would you do if you couldn't bowl? 
THEO I don't know. It's all I ever wanted to do. 
SHEILA I wanted to be a motocross champion. My folks didn't really care what I did. Then Junior blew a fuse and I became their last hope. Most girls get ballet stuffed down their throats, I got bowling. I never understood how anyone could take it so seriously. I hope I'm not insulting you. 
THEO No, I'm fascinated. 
SHEILA Why were you suspended? 
THEO I used to be kind of wild. They used to call me the bad boy of bowling. 
SHEILA So you're hoping Buzz can get you re- instated? 
THEO Well, that was plan A. 
SHEILA What's plan B? 
THEO Plan B is your dad. 
SHEILA What do you think my dad's gonna do for you? 
THEO He said he'd sponsor me. 
SHEILA Ha! And what do you have to do for him? 
THEO Nothing. 
SHEILA Oh really? Nothing? My dad doesn't do anything unless there's something in it for him. 
THEO He asked me to keep an eye on you for a couple of days. 
SHEILA What? Be my body guard? (she laughs) Here's my body, Theo. Guard it. For my dad's sake. For your career. Sheila starts to unbutton her bowling shirt. 
Breeze and Sid speed down a road in their damaged hulk. The TENOR of Enrico Caruso can be heard from inside. 
51     INT. SID & BREEZE'S CAR				    51 
Breeze drives. Sid gazes out the window. Enrico Caruso WAILS from the car stereo. 
SID Bowling used to be so pure, so...All- American. Breeze sings along with Caruso and pretends to conduct. 
BREEZE La da da dalala... 
SID (looking heatedly disturbed) I hate fuckin' opera. 
BREEZE How could you hate opera, Sid? Opera has all the drama and excitement of real life - to music! 
SID How do you know, you don't even speak Latin? 
BREEZE You listen to the feelings, not the words. 
SID You got an 8-track tape player on purpose, just 'cause you knew the only thing they had on 8-track was fuckin' opera. 
BREEZE It was a clearance. 
Sid seems to calm down. 
SID (wistfully) You know, Elvis bowled. 
BREEZE No kiddin'. 
SID Bowling was the most incorruptible sport. No megalomillionaires, no (more) 
SID gambling. And it was a safe place for kids, a place where the whole community could meet for some wholesome, clean fun. 
BREEZE (sympathetically) Sure, Sid. 
SID (becoming rabid) But not no more. Now people take advantage. Bowling ain't what it used to be. There's something evil spreading in this sport - like a big, gigantic, puss- ridden - 
BREEZE (getting excited) - canker sore. 
SID (apoplectic) Right, eating at the core, eating it's way out. It makes me sick! 
Sid starts pressing buttons on the tape deck 
SID How do you turn this thing off? 
BREEZE Wait! That's an aria! 
Sid and Breeze struggle for the cassette. The music DISTORTS into a warbling gurgle of an aria. 
SID Gimme that! 
Sid yanks the cassette out, but the tape becomes tangled in the player. He pulls at the endless yards of tape and throws the whole mess out the window. 
52     EXT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 52 
THEO So why do you stay? 
SHEILA I'm a credit card junkie. I went on a binge and my dad bailed me out. Now I'm trapped in his easy payment plan. 
THEO I bet you get to meet a lot of eligible bowlers. 
SHEILA Yeah, but they're all little wannabes. I'm looking for a professional man. 
THEO (he ponders the thought) I may not be a pro bowler, but I'm no amateur man. Sheila moves closer to Theo. 
SHEILA (touches his lips) How much would you charge me for the lips? 
THEO More than you could afford. 
SHEILA Come on, bargain with me. 
THEO I could let them go for ten. 
SHEILA (she pulls away, slightly) You professional men drive a hard bargain. I'm afraid I only have five on me. Sheila pulls out a 5 dollar bill. 
THEO (smiles) If you want a professional man, you have to be willing to pay for him. 
54     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DECK				    54 
Sheila and Theo stand on the deck. Sheila scans the road leading to the house with binoculars. 
THEO What are you going to do about your brother? 
SHEILA You're here. 
THEO What about the guy he put in the body cast? 
BINOCULAR POV The road is empty 
SHEILA Momentary relapse. Except for that, he's been making progress. Sheila laughs. Theo nervously pulls his collar up over the hickey on his neck. 
SHEILA Junior is like a faithful doggy. He loves his birthday so much, that every year, before we can go pick him up... 
BINOCULAR POV Kastle's car appears, driving hell-for- leather towards the house. 
SHEILA ...he breaks out of the hospital and comes home on his own. Here they come. She hands the binoculars to Theo, who immediately trains them on the road. 
SHEILA My mom once had an affair. When my dad found out, he had Junior kill the man. The body was never found, but I think Junior took him to the alley. Theo lowers the binoculars and looks at Sheila. 
THEO Then it's true, isn't it? About... 
SHEILA ...lane six. Yes. 
55     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DRIVEWAY				55 
Kastle's car comes belly-flopping to a stop in front of the house. Kastle climbs out and gesticulates wildly to the couple. 
KASTLE (a loud whisper) He's here! Come on down! 
SHEILA You're using Theo for your own deviant purposes! 
KASTLE Look who's talking! 
SHEILA Leave him alone! 
KASTLE Just because your mother signed part ownership of the lanes over to you, doesn't mean you have a right to tell me how to run my business! I can have my lawyers take that deed away from you like that. (snaps his fingers) Sheila and Kastle sit up. 
KASTLE Junior, how 'bout a riddle? 
JUNIOR (turns to Sheila) Sheila. Knock-knock. 
Sheila glances nervously at Theo. 
JUNIOR (impatiently) Come on Sheila, knock-knock. 
SHEILA Who's there? 
JUNIOR Junior. 
SHEILA Junior who? 
JUNIOR J'you-and-your-friend do it yet? (laughs) 
KASTLE (laughing) Fantastic! What talent. 
SHEILA (caustically) You still got the touch Junior. 
CUT TO: 
57     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, CAKE				    57 
A bowling pin-shaped cake with candles ablaze is presented to a seated Junior. He is wearing a paper birthday hat. The four orange whips are arrayed around the table. 
KASTLE Make a wish, son. 
Junior stares into Sheila's eyes for several seconds. 
JUNIOR Same wish as last year. 
Sheila blows out the candles in a hurry. 
SHEILA It won't come true, Junior. 
Kastle places a gift-wrapped box in front of Junior and lifts the lid. He reaches in and pulls out a huge, intricate claw- like arm-shaped device made of plastic and metal and covered with cables. 
KASTLE It's a bowling claw. You can bowl now, Junior. With the whole family. Junior beams at the group. 
KASTLE (puts one arm around Junior and one on Theo) Pretty soon everybody can bowl! 
The two sleazeballs walk up onto the deck and over to the table. 
SID Hello Mr. Kastle. (nods to seated party) Junior, long time. I thought they locked you up and threw away the warden! 
THEO (struggling to get away) What did you do to Buzz? 
JUNIOR You played bouncy-bouncy with Sheila, so I'm gonna play Blue-Face with you. (he grabs Theo's throat) 
THEO (hoarsely) I don't want to play. 
Theo stretches to get a nearby ball, but just can't reach it, by millimeters. 
JUNIOR To play, I press my fingers on a throat like this... (he presses tighter on Theo's windpipe) ...and then the mans face would go blue and I should keep pressing... (Theo's face goes pale blue) ...and I did and then he stopped moving and he didn't play anymore after that. Theo bends back a finger on Junior's hand. Junior lets out a HOWL of pain and releases Theo's neck. Theo GASPS for air. 
JUNIOR You didn't play fair. (stands up) You were almost blue. 
Theo gets his fingers in a bowling ball and brings it up to bash Junior in the head. 
JUNIOR Go ahead Theo, I saw you on TV. I'm your biggest fan. Junior offers Theo his unprotected head. 
JUNIOR (yelling) Come on Theo, GIVE ME YOUR AUTOGRAPH! 
Theo bashes Junior in the head with the ball. It bounces off Junior's head like a Nerf ball and rolls down the alley. 
JUNIOR Thank you, Mr. Skinner! Thank you! 
Theo desperately, but fruitlessly tries to get away. As he crawls over the ball return trough, Junior puts his foot on Theo's head. 
JUNIOR I can have her,you know. (looks around and whispers) She's not my real sister. (he flashes a lecherous smile) THEO'S POV A ball pops up at the far end of the return and TRUNDLES rapidly towards Theo. The ball hits Theo's face with a POW. BLACK OUT We HEAR "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head." THEO'S BOWLING SHOE ATTIRED FEET Being dragged down the lane. Theo comes to and looks down his body to see the empty lane. He looks up to see Junior pulling him towards the pin reset machine. The cut on Theo's forehead bleeds down the side of his face. 
JUNIOR (muttering) Lubrication. 
MACHINE NUMBER 6 
Junior pulls the dazed Theo into the pin-reset machine and positions him under the pins. As Junior prepares the machinery, a control cable on his claw becomes fouled. Junior begins to thrash about as he tries to disentangle himself and his malfunctioning arm. Theo rolls away as Junior's flailing releases the machine. It comes slamming down on Junior just as Theo slips out of harm's way. He gets up and staggers away from the machine. Junior's HOWL echoes across the lanes. His twitching feet protrude from the maw of the device. Lane six goes dark. Theo limps up the lane. 
CUT TO: 
64     EXT. BRIDGE					64 
Theo drives up to the erect draw-bridge. He stops and gets out. The night is silent. 
THEO (loud whisper) Sheila! Where are you? 
Sheila pops out of the bushes and walks towards Theo. 
THEO (angry) You told Junior that we did it. 
SHEILA It? 
THEO It. Bouncy-bouncy. Fucked. He tried to squeeze my fucking head off. What did you say to him? When they reach each other, they stop. Sheila seems to weigh her answer. 
SHEILA I told him you were my boyfriend. 
THEO (very pissed off) What the hell did you go doing that for Sheila? We haven't even gotten naked yet! 
SHEILA We would have sooner or later. 
Theo jerks awake. His car is parked by the Fazeli house. It is a clear, blustery day. A gust of wind pulls the screen door open, then SLAMS it shut. He gets out of the car and walks unsteadily towards the house. 
68     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 68 
Theo walks into the house. The place is completely trashed. Theo picks up a golf ball from the floor. He makes his way to the bathroom door and slowly turns the knob; then pulls back. He picks up a nearby bowling ball and holds it over his head as he reaches for the doorknob. This time, he thrusts the door open. The bathroom is empty. Relieved, he cradles the ball in his arms. 
BALL Thick crimson red fluid trickles down his forearm, dripping off his elbow. Horrified, he pulls his fingers out of the ball. Blood streams out of the three finger holes. He drops the ball to the floor. He goes into the bathroom and turns on the sink faucets. 
INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, BATHROOM 
Water runs as Theo manically washes the blood from his hands and arms. He rinses the blood from the holes of his ball and looks up to the mirror. "NOK NOK" is smeared in blood across his reflection. 
69     EXT. 7-ELEVEN PHONE BOOTH - DAY			69 
Theo waits through several rings. 
GRACE Hello? 
THEO Hello, mom? 
GRACE Theodore? Where are you? Are you alright? 
THEO I found dad. 
GRACE He's dead, isn't he. (pauses) Buzz Fazeli might just as well have died before you were born. 
THEO Mom, you know I had to do it. I just did it a little too late. 
GRACE You sure you're OK Teddy? You're not bowling are you? 
THEO I gotta go. Love ya mom. 
Theo hangs up the phone. Alfie shuffles over. 
ALFIE Did you hear about that bowler who got smeared? I saw them pull a body bag out of the alley. I heard he was kacked but good. They had to take apart the pin machine to get him out. 
THEO (stunned) The pin machine? 
ALFIE Just like Junior did the last time; lane six. All's I know is it's gonna be a closed coffin. My advice to you is to lay low. He puts on a pair of dark 7-Eleven shades, flips up his collar and skulks away. 
70     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES				 70 
Theo pulls into the parking lot. The place is cordoned off with day-glo yellow emergency tape printed with "Bowling Police - Do Not Cross". A black bowling police van, its blue light spinning, is parked in front. Bowling cops herd dwarfs and customers into the van. Mothers and daughters mill around behind the yellow tape. A group of little people brandish "Right to Work" signs. Theo gets out of his car. The crowd moves in as Kastle, hands cuffed behind him, emerges from the door. 
LITTLE GIRL There he is! 
Camera flashes POP all over the place. Two black-jacketed bowling cops step out behind him. They are Sid and Breeze. 
BREEZE Bowling police, step back, give him room. 
SID Nothing going on here, everybody stand back. Let him through, ladies. Ladies, please. As they start to move through the female throng, a little girl pops out in front of them, holding her ball. 
LITTLE GIRL Mr. Kastle, we know you wouldn't do anything bad. 
SHEILA Why did you come back? 
THEO When I'm with you Sheila, I don't even think about bowling. Theo takes Sheila in his arms and kisses her passionately. She stops him and looks around nervously. 
SHEILA If Junior finds us, he'll kill us both. 
THEO I killed him once, I'll just have to kill him again. 
SHEILA You don't get two chances with Junior. 
THEO At least I'll die smiling. 
Sheila pushes him over. He falls backwards, her on top. 
SHEILA And you only get two chances with me. 
Sheila yanks her shirt over her head and tosses it away. 
FIRE The shirt CRACKLES and burns. 
She pulls Theo's head up to her breasts. 
SHEILA What's it gonna be, Theo? 
A Barbie's breasts blister from the heat. 
THEO & SHEILA Theo bends Sheila backwards, down on her back. She grabs the tail of his shirt, yanks it over his head and off his body. Sheila rubs her hands up Theo's back. 
SHEILA What's the plan, Theo? 
A Ken back bubbles and melts. Theo lifts Sheila's back off the sand and works her jeans down her legs. 
SHEILA Say something, Theo. Give me something. A doll's legs catch fire. Theo stares into Sheila's eyes. 
THEO Plan C. From now on it's gonna be plan C. Both bodies throb and grind, their sandy hands sliding over each others' sweaty skin. 
THEO It's gonna be you, Sheila. 
They humpty-hump to the beat of "Scientist's" 'DEMATERIALIZE.' We hear Theo and Sheila's stereophonic MOANING as a Barbie and a Ken doll collapse and vaporize from the blazing heat. We pan up through the flames, the MOANS increasing in volume and intensity as they reach the you-know-what-we've-all-been- waiting-for. 
CUT TO: 
73     EXT. CEMETERY - DAY				  73 
A coffin moves slowly forward as a solemn DIRGE plays. The top is in the shape of a bowling alley with a miniature black bowling ball inscribed with "The Faz" at the head. The pallbearers; Theo, Breeze, Sid, Tina, and two other bowlers place the coffin on poles above the grave. A rotund priest sprinkles holy water. Sheila stands next to Theo, crying. (more) 
Theo wears a glazed look. The priest clears his throat with a loud AHEM. 
PRIEST (with pomp and vigor) Bowling! (pauses to reflect) Bowling is a little like faith. Every now and then, we are blessed with the ability and strength to send a full roller down.. (makes bowling gesture) ...and scatter those babies like nobody's business. And every now and then we end up in the gutter. (pauses and gets glum) Buzz Fazeli found himself in the gutter of life. Trapped in hook alley, throwing nothing balls. But before he left us for that pie alley in the clouds, he pulled himself out of that gutter. Buzz Fazeli died cleaning up the sport of bowling. Now he lies at peace alongside his lane brothers here in Bowlers' Field. (makes sign of the cross) He died so that we could bowl - with dignity. Millie, decked out in mourning black, lets out a wail, steps up and throws a bouquet of flowers onto the coffin. 
MILLIE (sniffles) I forgive you Buzz. 
Sid leans over to Theo. 
SID It's official, you're an orphan. 
Happy now, busyboy? Theo stares at the newspaper. He lets Sid's fingers drop. 
75     EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY				   75 
Sheila speeds along, her Vespa maxing out at 30 mph. From behind her we see Theo's car approaching rapidly. He pulls up beside her. 
THEO (shouting and pointing frantically) What makes you think you know me so well that you can give me an ultimatum? Huh? 
SHEILA Who said anything about an ultimatum? You want to find your father? Get a shovel and start digging. Hurry up, he's probably in Purgatory by now. Sheila makes a pathetic attempt to speed away from Theo. He moves up beside her again. 
THEO You're really pissing me off. 
SHEILA I'm pissing you off? I'm doing what I said I'd do. What the hell are you doing? What about your word? 
THEO My word is good, and it'll always be good. When did I ever give my word to you? 
SHEILA What about plan C? 
THEO Fuck plan C! 
SHEILA Your word is so good, you're never gonna give it to anyone. 
THEO You think I'm dumping you to get back into bowling. Well who's dumping who? 
SHEILA I'm not dumping you, I'm suspending you. 
THEO Sez you! 
SHEILA Suck my dick! 
She speeds ahead. 
76     EXT. HIGHWAY				         76 
Theo THUNDERS along in his car. He listens to his SONG over the stereo. Theo digs into his pocket and pulls out the golf ball from Buzz's house. 
77     GOLF BALL					  77 
The logo on the ball reads "PARADISE." 
THEO Paradise. 
The white ball fills the frame. 
THEO (OS) (whispers to himself) Paradise. Hmmmm 
The camera pulls back from the ball to reveal: 
78     INT. TROPICAL 7-ELEVEN - DAY			   78 
Theo standing in flowery long Bermuda shorts, matching airbrush Luau shirt and 7-11 shades. The woman behind the counter looks like Alfie's twin. (It's actually Alfie in drag.) It's the same store as before, only with a tropical motif. Instead of bowling magazines on the rack, there's Mini- Golf Digest. ALFREDA examines the ball at arm's length, through her bifocals. 
WOMAN Dad? You said you was single. 
BUZZ We ain't married no more. 
THEO He says that to all his wives. 
As she tries to wiggle away from him, the club conks Buzz on the noodle, squishing his halo. 
WOMAN (freeing herself - to Buzz) Geez Maynard, is he telling the truth? 
BUZZ Don't pay him any mind, sweetheart. 
WOMAN You're a nice guy, Maynard, but if you got two wives - I ain't into no polybigamy. Buzz is silent. He takes the club out of her hand. She steps away - startled - then turns and jogs away. Buzz throws down his club in a fury. 
BUZZ Goddam it! I was just about to make a love connection. You sure got a way with women. You show up, women get away. 
THEO (laughs) The whole world thinks you're underground. 
BUZZ I am underground. 
Buzz removes his damaged cap. 
THEO It could just as easily have been me in that box. 
BUZZ I told you to get lost. You forced yourself into this mess, so the mess accommodated you. Buzz straightens out and carefully remolds the bent out of shape halo. 
THEO What about bowling? 
BUZZ (takes a practice swing) Bowling died for me years ago. Besides, I'm a living dead legend. I'm a hero. 
THEO You're a scumbag. 
Buzz pats his hair down and slips the cap back on his head. 
BUZZ I'm a live scumbag. 
Theo digs into his pocket and retrieves the golf ball. He tosses it to Buzz. 
THEO Nice knowing you, dad. 
Theo turns and walks towards his car. Buzz pauses and walks after him. 
BUZZ So, eh, you never saw me. Right? 
THEO I never saw you. 
BUZZ Thanks, kid. (pause) Where are you goin' now? 
THEO I'm goin' straight. No more short cuts. Theo gets into the car. Buzz leans in the open window. 
BUZZ Listen, if straight doesn't work out, you come work for me. (hands Theo his card) Just make sure nobody's following you. Buzz's face is eerily lit by the glow of the sunset, his halo bouncing in the breeze. 
BUZZ I didn't mean that stuff I said. I was trying to keep you out of this muddle. I'm glad I didn't have my tubes tied. Oh, and by the way, I made a call for you before I - uh - retired. Buzz takes his card and scrawl on the back with a gold pen. 
