Star Trek: Generations 
Screenplay by Rick Berman, Ronald D. Moore, Brannon Braga 
FINAL DRAFT 
March 16, 1994 
FADE IN: 
1   EXT. SPACE (VFX-I)                                           1 
A vast and sparkling starfield. A pinpoint of LIGHT appears and starts moving toward the camera... a small and distant cylindrical object tumbling end over end, but we can't determine exactly what it is yet... 
2   EXT. WHEATFIELD - DAY                                        2 
A vast and undulating sea of wheat. We become aware that there are two HEADS sticking out of the stalks of wheat: two men are standing and looking up at the sky. As we move towards them,  we begin to hear their conversation...and we can see that the two men are SCOTTY and CHEKOV, dressed in civilian clothing. 
CHEKOV (points to sky) There he is -- there, to the South! 
SCOTTY (peers upward) What are ye, blind? That's a bird. 
As they stare up at the sky... 
3   EXT. SPACE (VFX-I)                                           3 
The cylinder tumbling through space is now closer, and we can now see that it is a BOTTLE of some sort, and it is tumbling directly toward the camera... 
4   EXT. WHEATFIELD- DAY                                         4 
As before, Chekov and Scotty staring at the sky. 
SCOTTY (concerned) Repelling the Crystalline Trench... rafting down lava flows... orbital skydiving. it's like the man is running a bloody decathlon across the galaxy. 
Suddenly we hear a double SONIC BOOM. 
CHEKOV (re: sound) That should be him now. I think he's just crossed the sound barrier. 
They shield their eyes against the sun and look up. 
5   EXT. SPACE (VFX-I)                                           5 
The bottle gets CLOSER... 
6   EXT. WHEATFIELD - DAY                                        6 
A man in a high-tech body harness and parachute LANDS in the wheat flat on his back. His body-suit is charred, scorched, wisps of smoke still curling off of it. There are small thrusters attached to his backpack and boots. Scotty and Chekov move to him. The man removes his helmet. Revealing that it is KIRK. He smiles broadly, like a child who has just come off a roller-coaster. 
KIRK Right on target! I jump out over the Arabian Peninsula... and I end up here, right on the dime. 
Kirk gets to his feet. 
CHEKOV Actually, Captain, your precise target area was thirty-five meters... (points) That way. 
KIRK Thanks for pointing that out. 
Kirk starts to pull off his suit, reacts to a sudden pain in his back. 
KIRK Oh... 
SCOTTY I've warned ye about that back of yours. You should have a doctor take a look at it. 
Kirk waves him away, and continues to remove his harness. 
6A   EXT. SPACE (VFX-I)                                          6A 
The tumbling bottle rushes past, and we can now see that it is a CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE - Dom Perignon, 2265. Follow the bottle as it tumbles through space... 
6B   EXT. WHEATFIELD - DAY                                       6B 
Kirk, Scotty and Chekov as before. 
KIRK Tomorrow I want to make a tri- elliptical jump. That's where you jump out over Northern China, and make three complete orbits before you start re-entry... 
CHEKOV Captain. Perhaps you have forgotten that tomorrow is the christening ceremony. 
This strikes a nerve with Kirk -- we see a flash of hesitation and irritation cross his face. 
KIRK I'm not going. (beat) Scotty, help me with this chute. 
SCOTTY What do you mean, you're not going? We promised. 
KIRK When I retired, I swore I'd never set foot on a starship again, and I meant it. 
Chekov holds out his hand and indicates a very short height. 
KIRK But that wasn't so long ago... it couldn't have been more than... 
CHEKOV Twelve years, sir. 
KIRK Yes... well... congratulations, Ensign. It wouldn't be the Enterprise without a Sulu at the helm. 
DEMORA Thank you, sir. (to Chekov) Let me show you the new inertial guidance system. 
Demora and Chekov move off and Kirk looks after them for a long beat. The expression on his face changes from shock to sadness... Something is clearly bothering him. 
Scotty moves over to Kirk, with a smile on his face. 
SCOTTY (to Kirk) Damn fine ship if you ask me... 
But Kirk's mind is still on Demora. He watches her as she moves to the Helmsman's position. 
KIRK You know, Scotty... it amazes me. 
SCOTTY And what would that be, sir? 
KIRK Sulu. When did he find the time for a family? 
SCOTTY It's like you always said -- if something's important enough, you make the time. 
Kirk nods absently. Scotty realizes something... 
SCOTTY So... that's why you've been running around the galaxy like an eighteen-year-old. Finding retirement a little lonely, are we? 
Kirk gives him a look. 
KIRK With that kind of tact, I'm glad you're an engineer and not a psychiatrist. 
Harriman interrupts. 
HARRIMAN Excuse me, gentlemen... if you'll take your seats. 
KIRK Oh... of course. 
10   NEW ANGLE                                                   10 
Revealing that three CHAIRS have been neatly arranged to one side. 
Scotty, Kirk and Chekov all take their seats. The Journalists take positions on the opposite side of the Bridge. Harriman moves to the command chair and the rest of the Bridge crew go to their stations. 
HARRIMAN (to all) Prepare to leave spacedock. Aft thrusters ahead one quarter, port and starboard at station keeping. (beat) Captain Kirk, I'd be honored if you would give the order to get underway. 
KIRK No... no. Thank you. 
HARRIMAN Please, I insist. 
All eyes on Kirk -- he has little choice. He stands uncomfortably. There is a moment of anticipation. 
KIRK (to all) Take us out. 
Everyone breaks into APPLAUSE. Kirk sits down in acute embarrassment and  annoyance. 
CHEKOV (sotto) Very good, sir. 
SCOTTY (sotto) Brought a tear to my eye. 
CUT TO: 
11    EXT. SPACE- ENTERPRISE-B (VFX-I)                            11 
The great ship majestically LEAVES the dock, and heads out into open space, passing DIRECTLY OVERHEAD. 
12    INT. ENTERPRISE-B - BRIDGE                                  12 
A short time later. Harriman turns to his guests. 
HARRIMAN Well... we've just cleared the asteroid belt. Our course will take us out beyond Pluto and then back to spacedock. Just a quick run around the block. (beat) If we have time, we'll conduct a few tests of the warp -- 
Suddenly the communications console starts to BEEP. The COM OFFICER hits a few commands in response. 
COM OFFICER (to Harriman) We're picking up a distress call, Captain. 
This grabs everyone's attention. 
HARRIMAN On speakers. 
We hear the voice of a crewmember who sounds panicked and urgent. 
NAVIGATOR Aye, sir.. releasing drive plasma... 
A tense beat. Harriman glances over at the journalists, then glances over at Kirk. Kirk gives him a pained smile, trying to be encouraging even though he knows this is not the right course of action. 
NAVIGATOR (continuing) It's not having any effect, sir. I think -- 
DEMORA Sir! The starboard vessel's hull is collapsing -- 
15B   INCLUDE VIEWSCREEN (VFX-I)                                 15B 
Suddenly the right-hand ship on the screen is engulfed by a fiery TENDRIL of energy and it EXPLODES. The other ship continues to be thrown about and buffeted. Everyone reacts with shock on the Bridge. 
CHEKOV How many people were aboard that ship? 
DEMORA Two hundred sixty-five. 
Harriman pales at the sight... seems shell-shocked by the destruction of the ship. He's overwhelmed now, at a genuine loss as to what to do next. 
DEMORA (urgent) The Lakul's hull integrity is down to twelve percent, sir. 
Harriman looks over at Kirk, who has remained quiet during this entire sequence only through great effort and out of deference to the young Captain. This is a delicate moment -- Harriman doesn't want to look incapable, but at the same time, he needs help. 
HARRIMAN Captain Kirk... I would appreciate any... suggestions you might have. 
Kirk is out of his chair like a cork out of a bottle. He moves down to stand next to Harriman. 
KIRK (sotto) First -- move us within transporter range and beam those people to the Enterprise. 
Harriman looks at him with surprise. 
HARRIMAN What about the gravimetric distortions? They'll tear us apart... 
KIRK (gently) Risk is part of the game if you want to sit in that chair. 
Kirk gives him a supportive look. Harriman buckles down and grimly looks at the image on the screen. 
HARRIMAN Helm, close to within transporter range. 
Kirk glances at the Cameraman, who's still shining the light on them  all. 
KIRK And second -- turn that damned thing off. 
The cameraman turns OFF the light. 
CUT TO: 
16   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE-B (VFX-I)                           16 
The ship edges in yet closer to the crackling ribbon. The tendrils from the ribbon lash out at the ship, just missing it. 
17   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - BRIDGE                                  17 
As before. 
DEMORA We're within range, sir. 
HARRIMAN (to lieutenant) Beam them directly to Sickbay. 
CHEKOV (concerned) How big's your medical staff? 
HARRIMAN (embarrassed) The medical staff... doesn't arrive until Tuesday. 
Chekov turns to the two journalists. 
CHEKOV You and you. You've just become nurses. Let's go. 
Chekov and the journalists EXIT to the turbolift. 
DEMORA Main Engineering reports fluctuations in the warp plasma relays. 
SCOTTY By-pass the relays and go to auxiliary systems. 
The LIEUTENANT is having problems at the aft console. 
LIEUTENANT Sir, I'm having trouble locking onto them. They appear to be... in some sort of... temporal flux. 
Kirk turns to Scotty. 
KIRK Scotty? 
Scotty quickly moves to look at the Transporter console. 
SCOTTY What the hell... 
SCOTTY (outraged) There's just no way to disrupt a gravimetric field of this magnitude! 
DEMORA Hull integrity failing. 
Kirk looks at Scotty expectantly for a moment. 
SCOTTY (continuing) But I do have a theory... 
KIRK I thought you might. 
SCOTTY An anti-matter discharge directly ahead... it might disrupt the field long enough for us to break away. 
KIRK A photon torpedo? 
SCOTTY Aye. 
KIRK (quickly, to Demora) Load torpedo bays, prepare to fire on my command. 
Demora turns to him. 
DEMORA Captain... we don't have any torpedoes. 
Kirk glances at Harriman. 
KIRK Don't tell me... Tuesday. 
Harriman nods, a little embarrassed. The SHAKING gets worse. 
SCOTTY Captain, it may be possible to simulate a torpedo blast using a resonance burst from the main deflector dish. 
KIRK (onto the idea) Where are the deflector relays? 
DEMORA Deck fifteen, section twenty-one alpha 
HARRIMAN (to Kirk) I'll go. You have the Bridge. 
Harriman heads for the turbolift, and there is a moment as Kirk is sorely tempted to take command of the ship and sit in the Captain's chair one more time. But he pulls himself back before Harriman can exit. 
KIRK No... a Captain's place is on the Bridge of his ship. (beat) I'll take care of it. 
Harriman nods in acknowledgement. Kirk heads for the turbolift. 
KIRK (on the move, to Scotty) Keep her together until I get back. 
SCOTTY (matter of fact) I always do. 
Kirk smiles as the turbolift doors slide shut... 
23   OMITTED                                                     23 
24   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - CORRIDOR                                24 
Kirk running down the corridor, opens a door. 
25   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - DEFLECTOR ROOM (CONTINUOUS)             25 
A small control room with a few consoles. Kirk rushes in and rips off one of the large wall panels. He quickly begins to re-route cabling and circuitry... 
26   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - BRIDGE                                  26 
As before. The ship is SHAKING badly. 
DEMORA Forty-five seconds to structural collapse! 
Scotty is working the consoles frantically. 
SCOTTY Bridge to Captain Kirk. 
INTERCUT: 
27   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - DEFLECTOR ROOM                          27 
Kirk working furiously. 
KIRK Kirk here. 
SCOTTY Captain, I don't know how much longer I can hold her together! 
Kirk finishes working and slams the wall panel closed. 
KIRK That's it. Go! 
28   INT. ENTERPRISE-B - BRIDGE                                  28 
SCOTTY All things must end, Mr. Chekov. 
Harriman finally breaks the stillness of the Bridge. 
HARRIMAN Let's go home. 
Harriman steps down to the Captain's chair and takes command of his ship. 
Scotty and Chekov exchange a final look. Off the reactions of these two friends who've just lost someone very dear to them both... 
CUT TO: 
38   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE-B (VFX-I)                           38 
The crippled ship turns and heads away... 
FADE TO BLACK. 
SUPER: SEVENTY-EIGHT YEARS LATER... 
39   CLOSE ON A HALYARD                                          39 
as a FLAG is quickly hoisted to the top of a mast. The flag reaches the top and is then caught by the wind -- the blue and white banner of the United Federation of Planets waves in the breeze. 
MOVE TO REVEAL THE LOCATION 
40   EXT. SAILING VESSEL - DAY                                   40 
A nineteenth-century three-masted sailing vessel (about the size of a frigate) is hove-to and sitting in the water gently rocking. Across the stern of the ship, we can see the name ENTERPRISE picked out in gold letters. 
41   ON THE MAIN DECK                                            41 
Where PICARD and RIKER are standing before the assembled crew of the ship. Everyone is dressed in full-dress naval uniforms of the period, complete with cocked hats, epaulettes, etc. The crew is standing at attention... the wind whistles through the rigging... the timbers creak... 
Picard grimly looks over his crew... then finally  he nods to Riker. 
RIKER Bring out the prisoner! 
A drummer begins a long DRUM ROLL. 
42   ON A HATCH                                                  42 
as WORF is brought on deck by TROI and GEORDI. Worf is shackled by hand and leg irons. Troi and Geordi hold him by either arm and shove him toward the Captain. The drum roll STOPS. Picard moves to Worf and peers at him closely. 
PICARD Mister Worf... I always knew this day would come. Are you prepared to face the charges? 
Worf doesn't answer and Troi jabs him in the side. 
TROI Answer him! 
WORF I am prepared. 
Picard looks to Riker, who then pulls out a large, rolled piece of parchment. He opens the scroll and begins to read from it. In the b.g. Geordi removes Worf's shackles. 
RIKER "We, the officers and crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise, being of sound mind and judgment, hereby make the following charges against Lieutenant Worf: One. That he did knowingly and willfully perform above and beyond the call of duty on countless occasions. Two. That he has been a good and solid officer on this ship for one score less twelve years. And Three. Most seriously... that he has earned the respect and admiration of the entire crew." 
Riker puts away the scroll 
PICARD There can be only one punishment for such crimes... (beat) I hereby promote you to the rank of Lieutenant Commander, with all the rights and privileges thereto. And may God have mercy on your soul. 
Everyone ROARS in APPROVAL. Picard smiles at Worf and shakes his hand. 
PICARD (cont'd) Congratulations, Commander. 
WORF (smiles) Thank you, sir. 
Picard continues to smile at him for a moment...then Riker steps in. 
RIKER Extend the plank!! 
Worf's face registers surprise as everyone GRABS HIM and hauls him toward the side, where a long plank is being pushed out over the water. 
CREWMEMBERS Into the sea with him... feed him to the sharks... walk the plank... etc. 
Picard gives Riker a questioning look. 
PICARD Don't you think you're taking this a little too far, Number One? 
RIKER When we went to ancient Rome for Deanna's promotion, we threw her to the lions, remember? 
Picard shrugs it off... it's not exactly his cup of tea, but he'll go along with it. 
Worf is hustled to the rail where BEVERLY is waiting patiently by the plank, holding a long PIKE. Worf is put on the plank and Crusher prods him with the pike until Worf is nearly at the end. 
GEORDI The Farpoint mission? Data, that was seven years ago. 
DATA I know. I just got it. (laughs) It was very funny. 
GEORDI Thanks. 
Geordi indicates a corridor. They EXIT in that direction... 
63   INT. OBSERVATORY CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS                      63 
A short corridor connecting the Ops Center with other compartments. Geordi suddenly stops in front of what appears to be a standard bulkhead. 
GEORDI Wait a minute... there's a hidden doorway here. I can see the joint of the metal with my VISOR. 
Geordi runs his finger in a vertical line along what appears to be a smooth bulkhead. 
DATA (off tricorder) There appears to be a dampening field in operation. I cannot scan beyond the bulkhead. 
Geordi puts his tricorder away and begins looking for a way to open the door. 
GEORDI I don't see a control panel...or an access port. 
DATA (off tricorder) It appears to be a magnetically sealed. 
Data steps forward and OPENS a small panel on wrist and makes a quick adjustment to the circuitry within. 
DATA I believe I can reverse the polarity by attenuating my axial servo. 
Data completes his adjustment and then moves his wrist over the door panel. 
DATA (joking) "Open sesame." 
There is a HUMMING sound followed by a loud CLICK. The door slides open. 
DATA (smiles) You could say I have a... magnetic personality. 
Geordi reacts to the bad pun with a grimace. They EXIT to. 
64   INT. OBSERVATORY PROBE ROOM - CONTINUOUS                    64 
A small room with several probes stacked in holding racks. Geordi and Data scan. 
GEORDI I'm still not picking up anything. Someone went to a lot of trouble to shield this room. 
They put their tricorders away and begin looking around the room. Data continues to snicker and giggle as he tries not to laugh at jokes his mind conjures up. Geordi begins inspecting the probes... finally stops at one probe which has SEVERAL ODD DEVICES attached to the side. 
GEORDI Data, take a look at this. (Data comes over) You ever seen a solar probe with this kind of configuration? 
Data uses the tricorder as if it were a puppet as he opens and closes it like a mouth. 
DATA (making tricorder "talk") No, Geordi. I have not. It is most unusual. 
Data giggles and Geordi reacts with the irritation of someone listening to a very bad comedian. 
GEORDI Just help me get this panel open. 
Data helps Geordi as they try to open a panel on the casing of the probe. They open the panel and Geordi looks inside.he reacts to something. 
GEORDI Whoa. my VISOR'S picking up something in the theta band...it could be a trilithium signature. 
Data suddenly start LAUGHING. Geordi turns in irritation. 
GEORDI Data, this isn't the time... 
DATA (laughing) I am sorry... but I cannot stop myself... I think something is wrong... 
64A   ANGLE (VFX-P)                                              64A 
Data's laughter escalates into hysteria... then Data begins to JERK and SHAKE and goes into a bizarre "emotional seizure." A rush of EMOTIONS race across his face. anger, passion, shock... a kaleidoscopic blur of reactions contort his features. Then it stops and he FALLS to the ground. 
GEORDI Data! 
Geordi rushes to him. Data has a look of surprise on his face as he blinks a few times. He sits up. 
GEORDI Data, are you all right? 
DATA I believe the emotional chip has overloaded my positronic relays. 
GEORDI We better get you back to the Ship. (hits combadge) La Forge to Enterprise. 
There's no response. Geordi frowns for a beat, then we hear Soran's voice. 
SORAN Is there a problem, gentlemen? 
PICARD You know, Counselor... I'm not getting any younger. For some time now, I've been aware that there are fewer days ahead than there are behind... (beat) But I always took comfort in the fact that when I was gone, my family would continue. But now... 
Picard moves back to the photo album, open it to the last page, an then flips through the remaining pages -- they are blank. 
PICARD I've had brushes with death... more than I care to contemplate. I always accepted it as a calculated risk that goes along with wearing this uniform. (beat) But now... the idea of death has a terrible sense of finality to it. 
He looks at her. 
PICARD I'm the last Picard. 
A quiet beat as Troi considers him. 
TROI Captain, perhaps we -- 
Suddenly, a BLINDING BURST OF LIGHT  from outside the windows washes into the room. Troi and Picard rush to the window and shield their eyes against the glare. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Red Alert! All hands to duty stations! 
CUT TO: 
THRU    OMITTED                                                   THRU 
69    INT. BRIDGE (VFX-I)                                         69 
Picard and Troi ENTER from a turbolift. Riker and Worf at their stations. The star is on the Viewscreen, getting DARKER by the second... more flaming debris is being ejected into space. 
PICARD Report. 
RIKER A quantum implosion has occurred within the Amargosa star. All nuclear fusion is breaking down. 
PICARD How is that possible? 
WORF Sensor records show a solar probe was launched from the observatory a few moments ago. 
RIKER The star's going to collapse in a matter of minutes. 
Something beeps on Worf's console. 
WORF Sir, the implosion has produced a level twelve shock wave. 
TROI (shocked) Level twelve? That'll destroy everything in this system. 
TRANSPORTER COM VOICE Transporter room to Bridge. I can't locate Commander La Forge or Mister Data, sir. 
RIKER (to Worf) Did they return to the ship? 
WORF (works) No, sir. They are not aboard. 
PICARD How long until the shock wave hits the observatory? 
WORF Four minutes, forty seconds. 
Picard looks at Riker, who then quickly heads for the turbolift. 
RIKER Mister Worf. 
Riker and Worf EXIT. 
70   EXT. SPACE- THE STAR (VFX-I)                                70 
The star is almost entirely dark. Radiating out from the star is a huge shock wave- a rapidly growing sphere of energy. 
71   INT. OBSERVATORY PROBE ROOM (VFX-P)                         71 
Soran is standing at a console watching a graphic depiction of the star's collapse on a monitor when the door suddenly opens. Soran whirls around and FIRES his phaser at Riker and Worf. They dive for cover just outside the room. (NOTE: The probe Geordi examined earlier is now gone.) 
RIKER (to Worf) What the hell's he doing? 
Worf dodges another phaser blast and sees Geordi lying unconscious on the deck. Data is nowhere to be seen. 
PICARD'S COM VOICE Enterprise to Commander Riker, you have two minutes left. 
RIKER (yells to Soran) Soran, did you hear that? There's a level twelve shock wave coming. We've got to get out of here! 
Soran's only answer is another phaser blast. 
71A   OMITTED                                                    71A 
72  INT. BRIDGE                                                 72 
As before. ENSIGN HAYES is at Tactical. An ALARM suddenly BEEPS on the Tactical console. 
HAYES (urgent) Sir. A Klingon Bird of Prey is decloaking off the port bow. 
B'ETOR Perhaps we are tired of waiting. 
Soran is unfazed by this threat. 
SORAN Without my research... the trilithium is worthless... as are your plans to reconquer the Klingon Empire. 
Lursa reaches out and calmly pushes her sister's knife away. 
SORAN Set course for the Veridian system. Maximum warp. 
LURSA (to Helm) Bosh-ta-JaH Veridian (Set course for Veridian) 
A KLINGON GUARD ENTERS dragging the unconscious Geordi. 
KLINGON GUARD What shall I do with this? 
Soran moves toward Geordi, a grim look on his face. 
SORAN Bring him with me. I need some answers from Mr. La Forge. 
Soran EXITS. 
CUT TO: 
79   OMITTED                                                     79 
80   INT. CORRIDOR                                               80 
Riker and Worf are on the move down the corridor. 
WORF I have spoken to the Klingon High Council, sir. They identified the Bird of Prey as belonging to the Duras sisters. 
RIKER (surprised) Lursa and B'Etor...? This doesn't make any sense. A renowned stellar physicist somehow uses a trilithium probe to destroy a star, kidnaps Geordi... and escapes with a pair of Klingon renegades... Why? What the hell's going on? 
They EXIT to... 
81   INT. SICKBAY                                                81 
Worf and Riker ENTER. Beverly is closing a panel on the back of Data's head. He is sitting on a bio-bed, scanning himself with a tricorder. 
RIKER How is he? 
BEVERLY It looks like a power surge fused the emotional chip into his neural net. 
WORF Will that be a danger to him? 
BEVERLY I don't think so. The chip still seems to be working. I'd feel better if I could take a closer look, but I can't remove it without completely dismantling his cerebral conduit. 
RIKER (to Data) Looks like you're stuck with emotions for a while. How do you feel? 
DATA I am quite... preoccupied with concern about Geordi. 
RIKER We all are, Data. But we're going to get him back. 
DATA I hope so, sir. 
Data's expression is still one of concern. Beverly pulls Riker aside. 
BEVERLY Wil, I checked into Doctor Soran's background. 
Beverly activates the wall monitor and a picture of Doctor Soran along with some biographical information appears. 
BEVERLY He's an El-Aurian... over three hundred years old. He lost his entire family when the Borg destroyed his world. Soran escaped with a handful of other refugees aboard a ship called the Lakul. The ship was destroyed by some kind of energy ribbon, but Soran and forty-six others were rescued by the Enterprise-B. 
RIKER (reacts) That was the mission where James Kirk was killed. 
BEVERLY I checked the passenger manifest of the Lakul... guess who else was on board? 
She hits a control and suddenly Guinan's face appears on the screen. Riker reacts to the image... 
CUT TO: 
82   INT. GUINAN'S QUARTERS                                      82 
Close on Guinan as she looks up, surprised. 
GUINAN Soran? That's a name I haven't heard in a long time. 
MOVE TO REVEAL Guinan's Quarters, which are unlike any of the others on the Enterprise. None of the standard furniture, consoles or decoration are present. The floor is made of tile, not carpet... the walls are draped in exotic fabric. The lighting is moody and subdued. 
Picard is standing before Guinan, who is sitting cross- legged on the floor. They talk to each other with an easy familiarity... two old friends who know each other well. 
PICARD Do you remember him? 
SORAN Let's try to move beyond the usual prisoner-interrogator banter, shall we? You have information, and I need it. (beat) Did the Captain explain his orders to you? Did he say why you were searching for trilithium? 
GEORDI No. 
SORAN What about... Guinan? What has she told you about me? 
GEORDI Guinan? I don't know what you're talking about... 
On the PADD, we now see the dot has moved to a position next to Geordi's heart. Soran looks up at Geordi. 
SORAN My instincts tell me you're lying. And I know that can't be easy for you... (off PADD) I can see you have a good heart. 
Soran taps a control on the PADD. Suddenly Geordi grabs his chest in pain. Soran watches Geordi for a few seconds, then taps the PADD again. Geordi gasps and starts to breathe. 
SORAN Oh... I forgot to tell you. While you were unconscious, I injected a nano-probe into your bloodstream. It's been navigating your cardiovascular system... and right now I've attached it to your left ventricle. (smiles) A little trick I picked up from the Borg. 
GEORDI (gasping) Yeah... they're full of great ideas. 
SORAN I just stopped your heart for five seconds. It felt like an eternity, didn't it? Did you know that you can stop the human heart for up to ten minutes before the onset of brain damage? 
GEORDI No... I didn't know that... 
SORAN We learn something new about ourselves every day. (beat) Now. Maybe I didn't make myself clear. It is very important that you tell me exactly what Captain Picard knows. 
GEORDI I told you everything... you might as well just kill me right now... 
Soran's features soften as he smiles slightly. For a moment, he looks genuinely compassionate -- and it's a disturbing contrast to his usual dark intensity. 
SORAN I'm not a killer, Mr. La Forge. (beat) Let's try thirty seconds. 
Soran taps a control on the PADD. Geordi gasps and strains against an unimaginable pain. 
Soran picks up his pocket watch and opens the cover... sits back in his chair, watching the seconds tick away... 
CUT TO: 
84   INT. STELLAR CARTOGRAPHY (VFX-P)                            84 
A room filled with exotic-looking devices, sensors and computers which handle the enormous task of tracking the ship's position in space. 
The monitors around the room display various diagrams of the ENERGY RIBBON (as seen in the beginning of the film). 
Data is sitting at a computer console which has a great deal of complex information on the screen. Picard is standing next to him. Throughout the following, Data seems distracted and preoccupied. 
DATA According to our information, the ribbon is a conflux of temporal energy which travels through our galaxy every thirty-nine point one years 
PICARD When is it expected back? 
Data doesn't answer right away. 
PICARD Data? 
DATA Sorry, Captain. The Ribbon has already entered the galaxy. It will pass through this sector in approximately thirty-one hours. 
Picard moves about the room... he's frustrated... tired... but determined to find out what's going on. 
PICARD Guinan said Soran was trying to get back to the ribbon... if that's true, then there must be some connection with the Amargosa star. 
DATA The star's destruction has had numerous astro-physical effects within this sector. However, none of them appear to have a connection to the energy ribbon. 
PICARD Give me a list of those effects. I want to know every single thing which has been altered or changed... no matter how insignificant... 
DATA It will take a few moments for the computer to compile the information. 
Data works the computer and then the computer begins to work. Data sighs -- his expression becomes downcast and gloomy. He sits down and puts his head in his hands. Picard finally has to say something. 
PICARD Data, are you all right? 
DATA No, sir. I am finding it difficult to concentrate... I believe I am overwhelmed with feelings of... remorse and regret concerning my actions on the observatory. 
PICARD What do you mean? 
DATA I wanted to save Geordi... I tried. but I experienced something I did not expect. (beat) I believe it was fear. 
Picard regards him sympathetically. 
PICARD Fear is a very difficult emotion to overcome. It's something we all have to learn to deal with. 
DATA But I did not deal with it, sir. I let it prevent me from helping my friend. (beat) Does that make me a coward? 
PICARD No. And what you must try to avoid is becoming consumed by another emotion which I believe you're beginning to experience... guilt. 
DATA (considers) Guilt. It is a most unpleasant feeling. 
B'ETOR (to Lursa) The Captain would make a much more valuable hostage. 
LURSA (to Picard) We'll consider it a prisoner exchange. 
PICARD Agreed. 
The transmission ENDS. Picard heads for the Turbolift. 
PICARD Number One, you have the Bridge. Have Doctor Crusher meet me in Transporter Room Three. 
As Picard EXITS... 
CUT TO: 
89   INT. TRANSPORTER ROOM (VFX-P)                               89 
Picard stands on the platform. Crusher and NURSE OGAWA stand nearby. The TRANSPORTER CHIEF works his console. 
CHIEF Receiving the coordinates, Captain. 
PICARD Energize. 
Picard DEMATERIALIZES -- and at the same instant, Geordi MATERIALIZES. Beverly and Ogawa rush to his aide, pull out their tricorders and scan him. Geordi is conscious, and he's wearing his VISOR. 
CUT TO: 
90   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY (VFX-P)                              90 
A large plateau ringed with trees and underbrush. A single ROCK FACE juts upward, forming a backdrop for the plateau. Against the rock face, a large SCAFFOLDING has been erected -- planks and beams forming a complex structure -- ladders connect each level. It leads to a narrow ledge a dozen meters above. 
Picard MATERIALIZES on the plateau. (NOTE: Picard's combadge is gone and he is unarmed.) A moment as he looks around. strange animals and birds can be heard. 
He turns and sees Soran standing nearby, calmly looking at his pocket watch. Soran puts the watch away. 
SORAN You must think I'm quite the madman. 
PICARD The thought had crossed my mind... 
SORAN The only possible reason you're here is because you're not entirely confident you can shoot down my probe after all. So you've come to dissuade me from my horrific plan. (beat) Good luck. 
Soran turns his back on Picard and walks away. 
90A   ANGLE (VFX-P)                                              90A 
Picard takes a step to follow him and then is JOLTED backward by a large FORCEFIELD which briefly flashes into view. The field completely surrounds the plateau, enclosing Soran and the scaffolding, with Picard on the outside. OFF Picard's surprise... 
CUT TO: 
91   INT. KLINGON BIRD OF PREY- BRIDGE (VFX-P)                   91 
The Klingon Navigator is working his console. 
KLINGON HELM I have established the link. 
LURSA Put it through over here. 
Lursa and B'Etor move to one of the consoles with a large monitor. The screen shows STATIC for a few seconds, then clears to a distorted view of a CEILING on the ENTERPRISE -- this is GEORDI'S POV. (NOTE: The POV is slightly fritzed, but free of the usual VISOR effects.) 
LURSA It's working... 
B'ETOR Where is he? 
Suddenly, Crusher's face looms large in the picture, as if she's leaning over Geordi. She smiles and starts talking. We can see her lips move, but we can't hear what she's saying. 
BEVERLY (silent) Don't worry, there's been no permanent damage. Your heart is perfectly fine. There's been a little arterial damage... 
Lursa and B'Etor pull back in surprise at the image. 
B'ETOR Human females are so repulsive. 
CUT TO: 
92   INT. SICKBAY - CONTINUOUS                                   92 
Beverly is leaning over La Forge, who is on a bio-bed. mid-conversation. 
BEVERLY ... and some myocardial degeneration. I'm going to give you some hematozine, and I want to run more tests... but I think you're going to be fine. 
GEORDI Thanks, Doc. 
CUT TO: 
93   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY                                      93 
98   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP- DAY (VFX-P)                               98 
Picard continues to walk around the perimeter of the forcefield. He sees something on the ground -- a GNARLED ROOT from a large nearby tree. The root is poking out of the ground, leaving a small arch through which daylight can be seen. Picard's mind begins racing... he glances at Soran and then picks up a pebble and, while keeping his eye on the root, he tosses the pebble into the air, where it HITS the forcefield. 
-- The forcefield FLASHES on briefly and Picard can see that the bottom border of the field follows the contour of the root. But it does not extend underneath the arch. 
-- Soran turns at the sound of the crackling field. 
SORAN Careful, Captain. That's a fifty gigawatt forcefield. I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. 
PICARD Thank you. 
Soran returns to working on the Launcher. but Picard looks back down at the root... then walks away, planning his next move. 
CUT TO: 
98A   INT. KLINGON BIRD OF PREY- BRIDGE                          98A 
Lursa and B'Etor are watching the monitor of Geordi's POV with irritated expressions. On the monitor, Geordi rounds a corner and enters Engineering. 
The sisters lean forward eagerly. 
B'ETOR Finally! 
99   INT. ENGINEERING                                            99 
Geordi is talking to an engineer named FARRELL, N.D.s working in b.g. Mid-conversation. 
FARRELL I'd like to run a Level Three diagnostic on the port plasma relays. I think one of the generators is fluctuating. 
GEORDI Okay, let's do it. 
They both move to consoles... 
100   INT. KLINGON BIRD OF PREY - BRIDGE (VFX-P)                 100 
As before. On the screen, we can now see several of the monitors in Engineering. On the left side of the screen is the large cutaway view of the Enterprise. Lursa suddenly reacts to something on the screen. 
LURSA That's it! (to B'Etor) Replay from time index four-two- nine. 
B'Etor works. The image on their monitor RUNS BACKWARD for a moment and then FREEZES. On the screen, we can see several of the monitors in Engineering. On the left side of the screen is the large cutaway view of the Enterprise. Lursa touches the diagram. 
LURSA (continuing) Magnify this section and enhance. 
B'Etor works. The picture ZOOMS IN on the cut-a-way graphic and SHARPENS in FOCUS. There are several blocks of numbers and text visible. Lursa studies the image. 
LURSA Their shields are operating on a modulation of two-five-seven point four... 
The sisters exchange an excited glance, then move toward the command area. 
B'ETOR (calls out) Adjust our torpedo frequency to match - two-five-seven point four! 
The two sisters smile eagerly. 
101   INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE                                     101 
DATA (to Riker) Sir, I am detecting an anomalous subspace reading in Main Engineering. It may be -- 
WHAM! The ship is ROCKED HARD. Alarms go off on the Bridge. 
102   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE AND KLINGON SHIP (VFX-I)           102 
The Klingon ship is FIRING FOUR T0RPEDOES at the Enterprise. The torpedoes PASS DIRECTLY THROUGH the ship's SHIELDS and hit directly on the hull. 
103   INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE                                     103 
WHAM! Another HIT. 
WORF (shocked) They have found a way to penetrate our shields. 
RIKER Lock phasers and return fire! 
104   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE & KLINGON SHIP (VFX-I)         104 
The Enterprise FIRES at the Bird of Prey. but the phaser shots are stopped by the Klingon SHIELDS, which flash on when they're hit. 
The Bird of Prey returns FIRE. The shot carves a jagged tear in the Enterprise's hull. 
105   INT. BRIDGE                                                105 
As before. The ship is jolted again... the Con console EXPLODES and the Con officer is killed. 
RIKER (to Troi) Deanna, take the helm. Get us out of orbit. 
The ship begins shimmering- engaging its cloak. 
112   INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE                                     112 
RIKER Fire! 
Worf works. 
113   OMITTED                                                    113 
114   INT. KLINGON BIRD OF PREY (VFX-I)                          114 
Lursa and B'Etor react to the sight on the Viewscreen as the spread of torpedoes heads directly for them. The two sisters exchange a look. The ship is suddenly ROCKED HARD and we can see the beginning of an EXPLOSION... 
115   EXT. SPACE - THE KLINGON SHIP (VFX-I)                      115 
The ship IMPLODES, completely destroyed. pieces of the shattered vessel float past the camera. 
116   INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE                                     116 
DATA (excited) YES!! 
CUT TO: 
117   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY (VFX-P)                             117 
Picard has made his way back to the gnarled root. He stands a few feet away... a couple of pebbles in his hand. 
He glances at Soran, who's absorbed with his work on the launcher. 
Picard then surreptitiously TOSSES a pebble toward the root. It misses and BOUNCES off the FORCEFIELD. Soran looks over his shoulder at Picard, who sits down on a rock. Soran returns to his work. 
Picard tosses a second pebble -- this one also hits the forcefield. Soran turns with a vaguely irritated look. 
SORAN (as if to a child) Don't you have anything better to do? 
Picard doesn't respond. Soran goes back to work. 
Picard waits a moment, then takes aim and TOSSES another pebble toward the root. This time, the pebble bounces underneath the arch and rolls onto the plateau - inside the forcefield. Picard keeps his expression neutral, but he's found a way in. 
CUT TO: 
118   INT. ENGINEERING                                           118 
The room is a disaster. Wreckage from destroyed consoles and debris are scattered throughout the room. Geordi is desperately working with Engineers near the warp core, which is running faster and faster. 
GEORDI (to com) La Forge to Bridge. I've got a problem down here. The magnetic interlocks have been ruptured. I need to get the -- 
The warp core starts to spew white-hot GAS. 
GEORDI (continuing) Coolant leak! Everybody out. 
The emergency isolation door comes DOWN and people start rushing out of Engineering. Geordi heads for the Corridor. 
GEORDI (on the move, to com) Bridge, we've got a new problem. We're about five minutes from a Warp core breach. There's nothing I can do. 
119   INT. BRIDGE                                                119 
Riker is faced with a no-win situation. He makes the decision. 
RIKER (to Troi) Deanna, evacuate everyone into the saucer section. (to Data) Mister Data, prepare to separate the ship. 
Troi and Data work and Riker moves to the Captain's chair. He presses a button on the armchair console. a unique and urgent ALARM is heard throughout the ship. 
SERIES OF SHOTS as the ALARM SOUNDS: 
120   CREWMEMBERS AND CIVILIANS                                  120 
rushing through the corridors. 
120A   GEORDI                                                    120A 
directing people toward the correct doorways. 
120B   PARENTS                                                   120B 
grabbing their children and heading down the Corridor. 
120C   BEVERLY AND A NURSE                                       120C 
They grab a wounded crewmember and pull him down the Corridor. 
120D   PEOPLE                                                    120D 
133   EXT. SPACE- SAUCER SECTION (VFX-I)                         133 
PLUMMETS into the planet's atmosphere. 
134   INT. BRIDGE                                                134 
The ship is shaking and rolling VIOLENTLY. Everyone hanging on for dear life. 
SERIES OF SHOTS: 
135   CORRIDOR                                                   135 
Teachers and parents lead a group of children toward an intersection. The parents go down one corridor, the teachers and children down another. One child cries out and tries to reach for its mother, but there's no time -- a teacher keeps the child moving down the hall... 
135A   CREW QUARTERS                                             135A 
People are bracing themselves for the crash, taking emergency positions against walls, etc. 
136   OMITTED                                                    136 
137   INT. BRIDGE (VFX-I)                                        137 
The ground is getting closer on the viewscreen. 
DATA (off console) I have rerouted auxiliary power to the lateral thrusters. I'm attempting to level our descent... 
RIKER (to com) All hands, brace for impact! 
138   EXT. PLANET'S ATMOSPHERE - SAUCER SECTION (VFX-I)          138 
The leading edge of the huge saucer TILTS UPWARD Slightly. and then it HITS the surface. the saucer begins to PLOW THROUGH the dense rain forest:  As the ship continues to tear through the jungle, we INTERCUT the following sequences.: 
138A   INT. BRIDGE                                               138A 
Riker and the others hanging on as the ship shakes violently.. 
138B   CREW QUARTERS                                             138B 
A family huddles for protection as the WINDOWS are blown inward by debris... 
138C   INT. READY ROOM                                           138C 
The side window is BLOWN OUT... and Picard's photo album is tossed across the room along with everything else... 
138D   EXT. SAUCER SECTION (VFX-I)                                138D 
Outside the ship, we see a huge WALL of metal CRASHING through the jungle, uprooting trees... dirt flying... birds scrambling out of the way... an enormous scene of destruction as it tears through the foliage... 
139   INT. BRIDGE                                                139 
The ship continues to jump and shake... every light on the ship goes out in the crash. Finally, it comes to a STOP. There is a long, quiet beat... then people begin to stir in the darkened room. 
140   ANGLE ON RIKER                                             140 
who is slumped in his chair... he catches his breath, lifts his face and looks up into... SUNLIGHT. He shields his eyes and looks up at the ceiling and reacts... 
141   RIKER'S POV (VFX-P)                                        141 
The sun is shining in through the shattered overhead window on the top of the Bridge. There is a fluttering sound as a couple of BIRDS perch on the rim of the window. 
142   EXT. PLANET'S SURFACE - THE ENTERPRISE (WIDE SHOT)         142 (VFX-I) 
The saucer has come to a stop in the middle of a RAIN FOREST. The passage of the saucer has gouged a long trail through the forest behind the ship. Off this startling sight... 
CUT TO: 
143   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY                                     143 
Soran is climbing up the scaffolding. He gets a couple of levels up, and then suddenly a BOOT kicks him in the face. Picard has made it inside the field. 
A quick fight ensues, during which Picard is knocked a few levels down on the scaffolding. He LANDS hard -- happens to look up into the sky. He sees something.-- 
144   PICARD'S POV - THE SKY (VFX-I)                             144 
The ENERGY RIBBON can be seen in the distant sky 
-- a bizarre snake of color streaking across the deep blue sky. Time is almost up. 
145   RESUME ACTION (VFX-I)                                      145 
-- Picard avoids a vicious kick from Soran, glances down at the probe launcher, and realizes he's got one chance. He rolls to his feet, runs toward the probe launcher. 
-- There is a THUNDEROUS ROAR as the launcher FIRES THE PROBE into the sky. 
YOUNG BOY This is from all of us. 
PICARD Thank you... I can't imagine what it is. 
Picard tears open the box and pulls out a 19th century SEXTANT - an old-fashioned nautical navigational instrument. It's a beautiful piece with polished and gleaming brass. 
YOUNG BOY (excited) It's a sack-tent! 
Picard eyes it with delight. 
PICARD You mean a sextant. And it's a handsome one at that... from about eighteen twenty, I'd say. Wherever did you find it? 
GIRL It's a secret. 
PICARD (smiles) Oh, a secret... well, that makes it a doubly special gift. Thank you... thank you all... 
The children react with pleasure. They cluster around him, showering him with hugs and kisses. 
CHILDREN Merry Christmas, Papa... I love You, Father... etc. 
Picard is covered in a blanket of love and affection. The children pull back and return to their own presents. There is a swirl of activity and commotion as a warm and heartfelt Christmas morning is played out. 
WOMAN (to Picard) I'll go get dinner ready. they'll be starving in a minute. 
Picard nods as the woman EXITS the room. He looks around the scene, utterly happy, utterly content. 
The children continue to chatter and laugh among themselves as Picard's eye falls on the glorious Christmas tree. He can't help but smile as he looks over the ornaments and decorations... 
156   PICARD'S POV                                               156 
of the sparkling lights and ornaments -- a swirl of color and light. 
157   PICARD                                                     157 
His eye is caught by something in particular on the tree. He leans forward slightly and stares at it. 
158   PICARD'S POV (VFX-P)                                       158 
His eye has been caught by an ORNAMENT near the top of the tree. It is a large and beautiful glass ball with a tiny LIGHT at the center in the shape of a star. As Picard watches, the star suddenly GOES OUT... and it radiates a SHIMMERING LIGHT EFFECT that expands outward into the glass sphere. 
It's a startling and beautiful ornament whose effect is reminiscent of the star going out, as seen earlier in the movie. But this is just coincidence. this is the way the ornament was designed and it's simply one of many ornaments on the tree. 
159   PICARD                                                     159 
reacts. The image of the ornament has touched a nerve within him somewhere. It has reminded him of something he'd nearly forgotten - a discordant note in an otherwise wondrous and magical scene. He frowns, the reverie momentarily disrupted. But he tries to push it aside, not wanting the spell to be broken. He stands and turns away from the tree and looks out a nearby window -- it's snowing and the beautiful image of snow soothes him for a moment. Then he reacts to something. 
160   PICARD'S POV (VFX-P)                                       160 
reflected on the pane of glass is the image of the ornament -- it's still blinking. Picard now realizes that this image is not going to go away... he can't hide from it. 
PICARD No... this isn't right... this can't be real... 
GUINAN'S VOICE It's as real as you want it to be. 
Picard turns to see 
161   GUINAN (VFX-P)                                             161 
standing before him. She is wearing the same outfit seen in the beginning of the movie on the Enterprise-B. As they talk, the children and the woman continue to move about their business as if Picard and Guinan aren't there. 
Picard is stunned. 
PICARD Guinan... what's going on? Where am I? 
GUINAN You're in the Nexus. 
Picard looks around. 
PICARD This... is the Nexus? 
GUINAN For you. This is where you wanted to be... 
PICARD But I never had a wife, children, a home like this... 
GUINAN Enjoy them, Jean-Luc... 
Picard tries to make sense of it- he focuses on Guinan. 
PICARD Guinan, what are you doing here? I thought you were on the Enterprise. 
GUINAN I am on the Enterprise...I am also here. (off his puzzled look) Think of me as... an "echo" of the person you know... a part of her she left behind... 
PICARD Left behind...? 
PICARD Oh. 
Picard places the log on the block and Kirk gives it a vigorous chop with the axe. 
PICARD Captain, do you realize what -- 
But Kirk interrupts as he sees something o.c. 
KIRK Wait a second. I think something's burning. 
Picard follows his look to see SMOKE billowing out of one of the windows of the house. Kirk rushes into the house, and Picard follows... 
163   INT. KIRK'S HOME- KITCHEN - DAY - CONTINUOUS               163 
Kirk rushes in. The kitchen's decor is 19th century with a few 23rd Century touches -- copper pans and an antique stove mixed comfortably with computer consoles and Starfleet paraphernalia. Picard hesitates in the doorway -- a little unsure about rushing into some stranger's house. 
Kirk yanks a burning frying pan of food off the stove. It's very hot -- he quickly sets it down near the sink, waves the smoke away with his hand. 
KIRK Looks like someone was cooking eggs... (to Picard) Come on in, it's all right. This is my house -- or at least it used to be, I sold it years ago. 
Picard comes in and tries to orient Kirk to what's going on. 
PICARD I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the starship Enterprise. 
Before Kirk can react to this remark, an antique CLOCK on a shelf CHIMES as it strikes the hour. Kirk moves to the shelf and looks at the clock in surprise and wonder -- he is entranced by this experience, beginning to connect with things and memories from his past. 
KIRK This clock... I gave this clock to Bones... 
PICARD (pressing on) I'm from what you would consider the future... the twenty-fourth century. 
Kirk hears what Picard is saying, but like Picard in his fantasy, he is more interested in the sights and sounds around him. A dog barks from o.c. They both look as a large black dog bounds into the room and greets Kirk with enthusiasm. 
KIRK (affectionately) Jake! Jake, you miserable old Mutt... How can you be here? (to Picard) He's been dead seven years. 
Kirk is still looking around the kitchen when suddenly we hear a WOMAN'S VOICE from somewhere upstairs that stops Kirk in his tracks. As she speaks, we can see the shock on Kirk's face. 
ANTONIA'S VOICE Come on, Jim, I'm starving. How long are you going to be rattling around that kitchen? 
A beat. 
KIRK (amazed) That's Antonia... 
Kirk looks at the food on the stove. He's beginning to realize something. 
KIRK Wait a minute... 
Kirk glances at Picard. 
KIRK The future... what are you talking about? This is the past... 
Kirk moves to a drawer and opens it. Inside is a HORSESHOE with a tiny red bow tied to it. This confirms things for Kirk. He picks up the horseshoe. 
KIRK This is nine years ago... the day I told her I was going back to Starfleet... 
Kirk is swept up in the moment, overwhelmed by memories, sensations, feelings. He goes back to the frying pan and looks at the contents with a sudden burst of recognition. 
KIRK These were Ktarian eggs -- her favorite.I was cooking them to soften the blow... (re: horseshoe) And I gave her this. 
Picard steps in. 
PICARD I know how real this must seem to you, but it's not. This isn't Really your house. We've both been caught up in some sort of temporal nexus. 
But Kirk's mind is clearly elsewhere... he's being swept away by the emotion of the moment... realizing the opportunity he suddenly has. 
KIRK Dill weed. 
Kirk indicates a shelf, as if asking Picard to go to it. 
KIRK There's a bottle of dill weed on the second shelf to the left, right behind the nutmeg. 
Kirk moves to the stove and tosses out the ruined eggs. He cracks open two new eggs on the skillet and begins preparing a breakfast. Picard waits for a moment, then goes to the shelf, grabs the dill weed and hands it to Kirk. 
PICARD How long have you been here? 
Kirk takes the bottle and uses it to season the eggs. 
KIRK I don't know. I was on the Enterprise-B... in the deflector control room... keep stirring these, will you? 
Kirk moves to a cabinet and begins putting plates on a breakfast tray. Picard is getting a little impatient, but stirs the eggs anyway. 
KIRK (continuing) The bulkhead in front of me Disappeared... then I was out there chopping wood. (back to stove) Thanks. 
Kirk takes the pan of eggs back from Picard. 
In the distance, Picard can be seen approaching on a horse of his own. He stops next to Kirk. There is a long, quiet moment as the two men sit there side by side. Kirk is introspective as he sorts through his feelings... 
KIRK (re: ravine) I must have made this jump fifty times. and every time it scared the hell out of me. But not this time. (beat) Because... it's not real. 
A quiet beat. Kirk turns and looks toward a particular hill in the distance, shading his eyes against the bright sun. Picard follows his gaze and we can now see the distant figure of a WOMAN walking her horse. 
PICARD (re: woman) Antonia? 
KIRK (nods) She's not real either, is she? Nothing here is... nothing here matters... 
All euphoria is now gone from Kirk -- It's a moment of self-revelation. He glances around. 
KIRK It's kinda like... orbital skydiving. Exciting for a few minutes... but in the end, you haven't really done anything... you haven't made a difference... 
Kirk takes a beat, then looks at Picard. And in a way, he's truly seeing him for the first time. 
KIRK Captain of the Enterprise, huh? 
PICARD That's right. 
KIRK Close to retirement? 
PICARD I hadn't planned on it. 
There is a passion and a fervor in Kirk that we haven't seen until now. 
KIRK Well, let me tell you something - don't. Don't let them promote you... don't let them transfer you... don't let anything take you off the Bridge of that ship... (beat) Because while you're there, you can make a difference. 
The two captains face each other for a moment. Picard hears what Kirk is saying but also knows that's not the whole story. Picard gives him a direct look, and there is something in Picard's eyes -- a glint of resolve and determination. 
PICARD You don't need to be on the Bridge of a starship. Come with me. Help me stop Soran. (beat) Make a difference again. 
A long, silent beat as Kirk considers Picard. And slowly, unexpectedly, a smile spreads across his face. 
KIRK How can I argue with the Captain of the Enterprise? (a beat) What was the name of that Planet... Veridian III? 
PICARD That's right. 
KIRK I take it the odds are against us, and the situation is grim? 
PICARD You could say that. 
KIRK (musing) Of course, if Spock were here, he'd say I was being an irrational, illogical human for wanting to go on a mission like that... 
And for the first time, we can see the twinkle in his eye that tells us Jim Kirk is back. 
KIRK Sounds like fun. 
The two men turn and walk away from Antonia.and as they walk, a ROAR OF COLOR AND SOUND WASHES OUT THE SCREEN, as seen before. 
FADE TO RED 
FADE IN: 
167   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY (VFX-P)                             167 
Soran is standing in front of the forcefield, facing Picard. 
SORAN Now, if you'll excuse me, Captain, I have an appointment with Eternity and I don't want to be late. 
We realize we are watching the same events play out again. 
Soran turns and begins to climb up the scaffolding toward the top of the rock face. Picard drops to the ground on his back and begins to wriggle underneath the forcefield. Picard accidentally TOUCHES the field... 
167A   SORAN (VFX-P)                                             167A 
turns at the sound of the field, sees Picard, and then draws his weapon. Soran quickly FIRES at Picard. 
167B   THE GROUND (VFX-P)                                        167B 
is BLASTED APART, creating a cloud of dirt and debris, obscuring Picard and the whole area momentarily. 
-- Soran jumps down one level, his disruptor still in his hand, ready just in case Picard somehow survived. 
Soran peers through the cloud of dust and debris. 
-- The dust CLEARS... but Picard is gone along with several feet of the ground where he was crawling. 
167C   SORAN (VFX-I)                                             167C 
Soran glances up at the sky and sees the ENERGY RIBBON, then begins to climb the scaffolding. Suddenly a BOOT kicks him in the head. 
168   REVEAL KIRK                                                168 
Soran drops to the ground a short distance away. Dead. The pocket watch has been shattered. 
175   PICARD                                                     175 
turns back to Kirk, cradles the dying man's head in his lap. Kirk's eyes flick open, and he takes a ragged breath. 
KIRK Nice shot. 
Kirk coughs. His eyes flutter. He's fading fast. 
PICARD I'll find a way to contact the Enterprise. You're going to be all right. 
KIRK Did we do it? Did we make a Difference...? 
PICARD Yes. (beat) Thank you. 
KIRK Least I could do...for a Captain of the Enterprise. 
Kirk coughs again 
PICARD Try to hang on. 
Kirk looks up at the sky. the sunlight is warm on his face. A quiet moment... then, with a last smile on his face 
KIRK It was fun. 
Kirk dies. 
Hold te scene for a long moment, the two men in the quiet clearing. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
176   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - SUNSET                                  176 
Close on Picard's hand 
as he places a stone on a large pile of other stones. MOVE TO REVEAL that Picard is placing the final few rocks on Kirk's grave. 
He reaches into a pocket and pulls out Kirk's command insignia pin. He carefully places it on the grave... and stands there silently for a few moments. 
A distant WHINE of engines can be heard. Picard looks up into the sky... 
177   PICARD'S POV (VFX-I)                                       177 
An Enterprise SHUTTLECRAFT is flying through the sky toward the mountaintop. 
178   EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - SUNSET                                  178 
The shuttle has just landed, and the door OPENS as Picard enters the clearing. Worf, Geordi and N.D. security guards jump out to meet him. 
WORF Captain, are you all right? 
PICARD Yes. 
LA FORGE What about Doctor Soran? 
PICARD You needn't worry about the Doctor anymore. 
Picard moves toward the shuttle... then stops as he notices that the shuttle is damaged. Picard turns and notices for the first time that La Forge has a bandage on his face and Worf's uniform is torn. 
PICARD Was there a problem with the Klingons? 
Worf and La Forge exchange a look. 
GEORDI You could say that... 
CUT TO: 
179   EXT. PLANET SURFACE - THE ENTERPRISE (WIDE SHOT) (VFX-I)   179 
as seen before. 
PICARD (V.O.) Captain's log, stardate 48650.1. The starship Farragut has arrived in orbit and has begun to beam up the Enterprise survivors for transport back to Earth. 
CUT TO: 
180   INT. ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - DAY                           180 
A hive of activity -- Crewmembers moving about, carrying personal effects, equipment, etc. Some wounded people being carried on stretchers... 
The corridor is lit by emergency beacons and a HATCH has been opened at one end of the Corridor leading to the exterior of the ship. Daylight and jungle can be seen outside. 
PICARD (V.O.) (continuing) Our casualties were light. but unfortunately the Enterprise herself cannot be salvaged. 
