STAR WARS 
Episode IV 
A NEW HOPE 
From the JOURNAL OF THE WHILLS 
by George Lucas 
Revised Fourth Draft January 15, 1976 
LUCASFILM LTD. 
A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away... 
A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title. War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup slowly crawls into infinity. 
It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic Empire. 
During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the Death Star, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet. 
Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy... 
The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers from the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed by a giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly laserbolts streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing the main solar fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY 
An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2- D2) and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are old and battered. Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His face is a mass of computer lights surrounding a radar eye. Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic surface of an Art Deco design. 
Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their way. 
THREEPIO Did you hear that? They've shut down the main reactor. We'll be destroyed for sure. This is madness! 
Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions in the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door. 
THREEPIO We're doomed! 
The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that only another robot could understand. 
THREEPIO There'll be no escape for the Princess this time. 
Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship. 
THREEPIO What's that? 
EXT. SPACECRAFT IN SPACE 
The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the underside dock of the giant Imperial starship. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER 
The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and a score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make their way into the smoke-filled corridor. 
In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered arms and faces. 
An explosion hits near the robots. 
THREEPIO I should have known better than to trust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister... 
Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages around the two hapless robots. 
EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY 
A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon. The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable lad with a prize-winning smile. 
A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions. A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the tiny robot to follow him. 
LUKE Hurry up! Come with me! What are you waiting for?! Get in gear! 
The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum madly. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN HALLWAY 
The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away from the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through the Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run in a frenzied panic. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER 
A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome. Artoo makes beeping sounds. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER 
Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel soldiers can be heard in the distance. 
THREEPIO Artoo! Artoo-Detoo, where are you? 
A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a smoke- filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen years old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place, dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little robot joins his companion. 
THREEPIO At last! Where have you been? 
Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance. 
THREEPIO They're heading in this direction. What are we going to do? We'll be sent to the spice mine of Kessel or smashed into who knows what! 
Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the subhallway. Threepio chases after him. 
THREEPIO Wait a minute, where are you going? 
Artoo responds with electronic beeps. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - CORRIDOR 
The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord. 
IMPERIAL OFFICER The Death Star plans are not in the main computer. 
Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles in vain. 
VADER Where are those transmissions you intercepted? 
Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat. 
VADER What have you done with those plans? 
FIXER I keep telling you, the Rebellion is a long way from here. I doubt if the Empire would even fight to keep this system. Believe me Luke, this planet is a big hunk of nothing... 
Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about Luke's ineptitude. 
INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - HALLWAY 
Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move. 
LEIA Lord Vader, I should have known. Only you could be so bold. The Imperial Senate will not sit for this, when they hear you've attacked a diplomatic... 
VADER Don't play games with me, Your Highness. You weren't on any mercy mission this time. You passed directly through a restricted system. Several transmissions were beamed to this ship by Rebel spies. I want to know what happened to the plans they sent you. 
LEIA I don't know what you're talking about. I'm a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to Alderaan... 
VADER You're a part of the Rebel Alliance... and a traitor. Take her away! 
Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the smoldering hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial Commander turns to Vader. 
COMMANDER Holding her is dangerous. If word of this gets out, it could generate sympathy for the Rebellion in the senate. 
VADER I have traced the Rebel spies to her. Now she is my only link to find their secret base! 
COMMANDER She'll die before she tells you anything. 
VADER Leave that to me. Send a distress signal and then inform the senate that all aboard were killed! 
Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the Commander. They stop and snap to attention. 
SECOND OFFICER Lord Vader, the battle station plans are not aboard this ship! And no transmissions were made. An escape pod was jettisoned during the fighting, but no life forms were aboard. 
Vader turns to the Commander. 
VADER She must have hidden the plans in the escape pod. Send a detachment down to retrieve them. See to it personally, Commander. There'll be no one to stop us this time. 
COMMANDER Yes, sir. 
EXT. SPACE 
The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the planet Tatooine. 
EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT 
Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in the distance rests half buried in the sand. 
THREEPIO How did I get into this mess? I really don't know how. We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life. 
Artoo answers with beeping sounds. 
THREEPIO I've got to rest before I fall apart. My joints are almost frozen. 
Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds. 
THREEPIO What a desolate place this is. 
Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio stops and yells at him. 
THREEPIO Where are you going? 
A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small robot. 
THREEPIO Well, I'm not going that way. It's much too rocky. This way is much easier. 
Artoo counters with a long whistle. 
THREEPIO What makes you think there are settlements over there? 
Artoo continues to make beeping sounds. 
THREEPIO Don't get technical with me. 
Artoo continues to make beeping sounds. 
THREEPIO What mission? What are you talking about? I've had just about enough of you! Go that way! You'll be malfunctioning within a day, you nearsighted scrap pile! 
Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the direction of the vast dune sea. 
THREEPIO And don't let me catch you following me begging for help, because you won't get it. 
Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges off in the direction of the towering mesas. 
THREEPIO No more adventures. I'm not going that way. 
Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant mountains. 
EXT. TATOOINE - DUNE SEA 
Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless miles.  He looks back in the direction of the now distant rock mesas. 
THREEPIO That malfunctioning little twerp. This is all his fault! He tricked me into going this way, but he'll do no better. 
In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving towards him. 
THREEPIO Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm saved! 
The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the approaching transport. 
THREEPIO Over here! Help! Please, help! 
EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY 
Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer and the others can be heard working inside. 
LUKE (Very animated) ...so I cut off my power, shut down the afterburners and came in low on Deak's trail. I was so close I thought I was going to fry my instruments. As it was I busted up the Skyhopper pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me for the rest of the season. You should have been there... it was fantastic. 
BIGGS You ought to take it easy Luke. You may be the hottest bushpilot this side of Mos Eisley, but those little Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it up, and one day, whammo, you're going to be nothing more than a dark spot on the down side of a canyon wall. 
LUKE Look who's talking. Now that you've been around those giant starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft in the city... 
BIGGS I've missed you kid. 
LUKE Well, things haven't been the same since you left, Biggs. It's been so... quiet. 
Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke. 
THREEPIO Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this never end? 
EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - LARS HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON 
The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small adobe block house. 
The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow. The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils should be. 
Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars, a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump- shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales pitch in a queer, unintelligible language. 
A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru standing in the main courtyard. 
BERU Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a translator to be sure it speaks Bocce. 
LUKE It looks like we don't have much of a choice but I'll remind him. 
Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment for sale with the Jawa leader. 
OWEN I have no need for a protocol droid. 
THREEPIO (quickly) Sir -- not in an environment such as this -- that's why I've also been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that... 
OWEN What I really need is a droid that understands the binary language of moisture vaporators. 
THREEPIO Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was programming binary load lifter... very similar to your vaporators. You could say... 
OWEN Do you speak Bocce? 
THREEPIO Of course I can, sir. It's like a second language for me... I'm as fluent in Bocce... 
OWEN All right shut up! (turning to Jawa) I'll take this one. 
THREEPIO Shutting up, sir. 
OWEN Luke, take these two over to the garage, will you? I want you to have both of them cleaned up before dinner. 
LUKE But I was going into Toshi Station to pick up some power converters... 
OWEN You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done. Now come on, get to it! 
LUKE All right, come on! And the red one, come on. Well, come on, Red, let's go. 
As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is restrained by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box. 
Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the head of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly. 
LUKE Uncle Owen... 
OWEN Yeah? 
LUKE This R2 unit has a bad motivator. Look! 
OWEN (to the head Jawa) Hey, what're you trying to push on us? 
The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has sneaked out of line and is moving up and down trying to attract attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio taps Luke on the shoulder. 
THREEPIO (pointing to Artoo) Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is in prime condition. A real bargain. 
LUKE Uncle Owen... 
OWEN Yeah? 
LUKE What about that one? 
OWEN (to Jawa) What about that blue one? We'll take that one. 
With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged astro-droid for Artoo. 
LUKE Yeah, take it away. 
THREEPIO Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very pleased with that one, sir. He really is in first-class condition. I've worked with him before. Here he comes. 
Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry. 
LUKE Okay, let's go. 
THREEPIO (to Artoo) Now, don't you forget this! Why I should stick my neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity! 
INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON 
The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly peaceful atmosphere permeates the low grey chamber. Threepio lowers himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the battered Landspeeder little Artoo rests on a large battery with a cord to his face. 
THREEPIO Thank the maker! This oil bath is going to feel so good. I've got such a bad case of dust contamination, I can barely move! 
Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke seems to be lost in thought as he runs his hand over the damaged fin of a small two-man Skyhopper spaceship resting in a low hangar off the garage. Finally Luke's frustrations get the better of him and he slams a wrench across the workbench. 
LUKE It just isn't fair. Oh, Biggs is right. I'm never gonna get out of here! 
THREEPIO Is there anything I might do to help? 
Luke glances at the battered robot. A bit of his anger drains and a tiny smile creeps across his face. 
LUKE Well, not unless you can alter time, speed up the harvest, or teleport me off this rock! 
THREEPIO I don't think so, sir. I'm only a droid and not very knowledgeable about such things. Not on this planet, anyways. As a matter of fact, I'm not even sure which planet I'm on. 
LUKE Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that it's farthest from. 
THREEPIO I see, sir. 
LUKE Uh, you can call me Luke. 
THREEPIO I see, sir Luke. 
LUKE (laughing) Just Luke. 
THREEPIO And I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, Artoo-Detoo. 
LUKE Hello. 
Artoo beeps in response. Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome pick. Threepio climbs out of the oil tub and begins wiping oil from his bronze body. 
LUKE You got a lot of carbon scoring here. It looks like you boys have seen a lot of action. 
LUKE Threepio! 
EXT. TATOOINE - SAND PIT - ROCK MESA - DAY 
Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and Ben stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off. 
Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and then flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally the mechanical man's systems turn on. 
THREEPIO Where am I? I must have taken a bad step... 
LUKE Can you stand? We've got to get out of here before the Sandpeople return. 
THREEPIO I don't think I can make it. You go on, Master Luke. There's no sense in you risking yourself on my account. I'm done for. 
Artoo makes a beeping sound. 
LUKE No, you're not. What kind of talk is that? 
Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the air. 
BEN Quickly, son... they're on the move. 
INT. KENOBI'S DWELLING 
The small, spartan hovel is cluttered with desert junk but still manages to radiate an air of time-worn comfort and security. Luke is in one corner repairing Threepio's arm, as old Ben sits thinking. 
LUKE No, my father didn't fight in the wars. He was a navigator on a spice freighter. 
BEN That's what your uncle told you. He didn't hold with your father's ideals. Thought he should have stayed here and not gotten involved. 
LUKE You fought in the Clone Wars? 
BEN Yes, I was once a Jedi Knight the same as your father. 
LUKE I wish I'd known him. 
BEN He was the best star-pilot in the galaxy, and a cunning warrior. I understand you've become quite a good pilot yourself. And he was a good friend. Which reminds me... 
Ben gets up and goes to a chest where he rummages around. As Luke finishes repairing Threepio and starts to fit the restraining bolt back on, Threepio looks at him nervously. Luke thinks about the bolt for a moment then puts it on the table. Ben shuffles up and presents Luke with a short handle with several electronic gadgets attached to it. 
BEN I have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but your uncle wouldn't allow it. He feared you might follow old Obi-Wan on some damned-fool idealistic crusade like your father did. 
THREEPIO Sir, if you'll not be needing me, I'll close down for awhile. 
LUKE Sure, go ahead. 
Ben hands Luke the saber. 
LUKE What is it? 
BEN Your fathers lightsaber. This is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not as clumsy or as random as a blaster. 
Luke pushes a button on the handle. A long beam shoots out about four feet and flickers there. The light plays across the ceiling. 
BEN An elegant weapon for a more civilized time. For over a thousand generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire. 
Luke hasn't really been listening. 
LUKE How did my father die? 
BEN A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the Jedi are all but extinct. Vader was seduced by the dark side of the Force. 
LUKE The Force? 
BEN Well, the Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together. 
Artoo makes beeping sounds. 
BEN Now, let's see if we can't figure out what you are, my little friend. And where you come from. 
LUKE I saw part of the message he was... 
Luke is cut short as the recorded image of the beautiful young Rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face. 
BEN I seem to have found it. 
Luke stops his work as the lovely girl's image flickers before his eyes. 
LEIA General Kenobi, years ago you served my father in the Clone Wars. Now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire. I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to you in person, but my ship has fallen under attack and I'm afraid my mission to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I have placed information vital to the survival of the Rebellion into the memory systems of this R2 unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. You must see this droid safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope. 
There is a little static and the transmission is cut short. Old Ben leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs on a tarnished chrome water pipe. Luke has stars in his eyes. 
BEN You must learn the ways of the Force if you're to come with me to Alderaan. 
LUKE (laughing) Alderaan? I'm not going to Alderaan. I've got to go home. It's late, I'm in for it as it is. 
BEN I need your help, Luke. She needs your help. I'm getting too old for this sort of thing. 
LUKE I can't get involved! I've got work to do! It's not that I like the Empire. I hate it! But there's nothing I can do about it right now. It's such a long way from here. 
BEN That's your uncle talking. 
LUKE (sighing) Oh, God, my uncle. How am I ever going to explain this? 
BEN Learn about the Force, Luke. 
LUKE Look, I can take you as far as Anchorhead. You can get a transport there to Mos Eisley or wherever you're going. 
BEN You must do what you feel is right, of course. 
EXT. SPACE. 
An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like battle station: the Death Star! 
INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM 
Eight Imperial senators and generals sit around a black conference table. Imperial stormtroopers stand guard around the room. Commander Tagge, a young, slimy-looking general, is speaking. 
TAGGE Until this battle station is fully operational we are vulnerable. The Rebel Alliance is too well equipped. They're more dangerous than you realize. 
The bitter Admiral Motti twists nervously in his chair. 
MOTTI Dangerous to your starfleet, Commander, not to this battle station! 
BEN These are not the droids your looking for. 
TROOPER These are not the droids we're looking for. 
BEN He can go about his business. 
TROOPER You can go about your business. 
BEN (to Luke) Move along. 
TROOPER Move along. Move along. 
EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET 
The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle the speeder. 
THREEPIO I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting creatures. 
As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa away. 
LUKE Go on, go on. I can't understand how we got by those troopers. I thought we were dead. 
BEN The Force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. You will find it a powerful ally. 
LUKE Do you really think we're going to find a pilot here that'll take us to Alderaan? 
BEN Well, most of the best freighter pilots can be found here. Only watch your step. This place can be a little rough. 
LUKE I'm ready for anything. 
THREEPIO Come along, Artoo. 
INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA 
The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants follow Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien creatures and monsters at the long metallic bar. At first the sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry, scaly, tentacled, and clawed creatures huddle over drinks. Ben moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive but human scum. A huge, rough-looking Bartender stops Luke and the robots. 
BARTENDER We don't serve their kind here! 
Luke still recovering from the shock of seeing so many outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the bartender's drift. 
LUKE What? 
BARTENDER Your droids. They'll have to wait outside. We don't want them here. 
Luke looks at old Ben, who is busy talking to one of the Galactic pirates. He notices several of the gruesome creatures along the bar are giving him a very unfriendly glare. 
Luke pats Threepio on the shoulder. 
LUKE Listen, why don't you wait out by the speeder. We don't want any trouble. 
THREEPIO I heartily agree with you sir. 
Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the creatures at the bar go back to their drinks. 
Ben is standing next to Chewbacca, an eight-foot-tall savage- looking creature resembling a huge grey bushbaby monkey with fierce baboon-like fangs. His large blue eyes dominate a fur- covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance. Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers, and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old Wookiee and a sight to behold. 
Ben speaks to the Wookiee, pointing to Luke several times during his conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit disconcerted and pretends not to hear the conversation between Ben and the giant Wookiee. 
Luke is terrified but tries not to show it. He quietly sips his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear or whatever. 
A large, multiple-eyed Creature gives Luke a rough shove. 
CREATURE Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!? 
The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore the creature and turns back on his drink. A short, grubby Human and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the belligerent monstrosity. 
HUMAN He doesn't like you. 
LUKE I'm sorry. 
HUMAN I don't like you either. 
The big creature is getting agitated and yells out some unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous, young adventurer. 
HUMAN Don't insult us. You just watch yourself. We're wanted men. I have the death sentence in twelve systems. 
LUKE I'll be careful than. 
HUMAN You'll be dead. 
The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar moves away. Luke tries to remain cool but it isn't easy. His three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind Luke. 
BEN This little one isn't worth the effort. Come let me buy you something... 
A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the young would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through tables and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid. With a blood curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at old Ben. The bartender panics. 
BARTENDER No blasters! No blaster! 
With astounding agility old Ben's laser sword sparks to life and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut in two and the giant multiple-eyed creature lies doubled, cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns off his laser sword and replaces it on his utility belt. Luke, shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities, attempts to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing his bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe. Ben points the the Wookiee. 
BEN This is Chewbacca. He's first-mate on a ship that might suit our needs. 
EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET 
Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on an electronic conversation with another little red astro- droid. A creature comes out of the cantina and approaches two stormtroopers in the street. 
THREEPIO I don't like the look of this. 
INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA 
Strange creatures play exotic big band music on odd-looking instruments as Luke, still giddy, downs a fresh drink and follows Ben and Chewbacca to a booth where Han Solo is sitting. Han is a tough, roguish starpilot about thirty years old. A mercenary on a starship, he is simple, sentimental, and cocksure. 
HAN Han Solo. I'm captain of the Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells me you're looking for passage to the Alderaan system. 
BEN Yes, indeed. If it's a fast ship. 
HAN Fast ship? You've never heard of the Millennium Falcon? 
BEN Should I have? 
HAN It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs! 
Ben reacts to Solo's stupid attempt to impress them with obvious misinformation. 
THREEPIO You watch your language! 
EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET - ALLEYWAY - USED SPEEDER LOT 
Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot, talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins. 
LUKE He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out, they're just not in demand. 
BEN It will be enough. 
Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as they disappear down another alley. 
BEN If the ship's as fast as he's boasting, we ought to do well. 
INT. DOCKING BAY 94 - DAY 
Jabba the Hut and a half-dozen grisly alien pirates and purple creatures stand in the middle of the docking bay. Jabba is the grossest of the slavering hulks and his scarred face is a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer. He is a fat, slug-like creature with eyes on extended feelers and a huge ugly mouth. 
JABBA Come on out, Solo! 
A voice from directly behind the pirates startles them and they turn around to see Han Solo and the giant Wookiee, Chewbacca, standing behind them with no weapons in sight. 
HAN I've been waiting for you, Jabba. 
JABBA I expected you would be. 
HAN I'm not the type to run. 
JABBA (fatherly-smooth) Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me... why haven't you paid me? And why did you have to fry poor Greedo like that... after all we've been through together. 
HAN You sent Greedo to blast me. 
JABBA (mock surprise) Han, why you're the best smuggler in the business. You're too valuable to fry. He was only relaying my concern at your delays. He wasn't going to blast you. 
HAN I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those twerps. If you've got something to say to me, come see me yourself. 
JABBA Han, Han! If only you hadn't had to dump that shipment of spice... you understand I just can't make an exception. Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped their shipment at the first sign of an Imperial starship? It's not good business. 
HAN You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. I had no choice, but I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little extra. I just need some more time. 
JABBA (to his men) Put your blasters away. Han, my boy, I'm only doing this because you're the best and I need you. So, for an extra, say twenty percent I'll give you a little more time... but this is it. If you disappoint me again, I'll put a price on your head so large you won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your short life. 
HAN Jabba, I'll pay you because it's my pleasure. 
EXT. DOCKING PORT ENTRY - ALLEYWAY 
Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay 94.  Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street. Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry. The darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder lot.  He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small transmitter. 
INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94 
Chewbacca leads the group into a giant dirt pit that is Docking Bay 94. Resting in the middle of the huge hole is a large, round, beat-up, pieced-together hunk of junk that could only loosely be called a starship. 
LUKE What a piece of junk. 
The tall figure of Han Solo comes down the boarding ramp. 
HAN She'll make point five beyond the speed of light. She may not look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid. I've added some special modifications myself. 
Luke scratches his head. It's obvious he isn't sure about all this. Chewbacca rushes up the ramp and urges the others to follow. 
HAN We're a little rushed, so if you'll hurry aboard we'll get out of here. 
The group rushes up the gang plank, passing a grinning Han Solo. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON 
Chewbacca settles into the pilot's chair and starts the mighty engines of the starship. 
INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94 
Luke, Ben, Threepio, and Artoo move toward the Millennium Falcon passing Solo. 
THREEPIO Hello, sir. 
EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET 
Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad creature. 
TROOPER Which way? 
The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking bay. 
TROOPER All right, men. Load your weapons! 
INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94] 
The troops hold their guns at the ready and charge down the docking bay entrance. 
TROOPER Stop that ship! 
Han Solo looks up and sees the Imperial stormtroopers rushing into the docking bay. Several of the troopers fire at Han as he ducks into the spaceship. 
TROOPER Blast 'em! 
Han draws his laser pistol and pops off a couple of shots which force the stormtroopers to dive for safety. The pirateship engines whine as Han hits the release button that slams the overhead entry shut. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON 
HAN Chewie, get us out of here! 
The group straps in for take off. 
THREEPIO Oh, my. I'd forgotten how much I hate space travel. 
EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREETS 
The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above the dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the morning sky. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Han climbs into the pilot's chair next to Chewbacca, who chatters away as he points to something on the radar scope. 
EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE 
BEN I felt a great disturbance in the Force... as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. I fear something terrible has happened. 
Ben rubs his forehead. He seems to drift into a trance. Then he fixes his gaze on Luke. 
BEN You'd better get on with your exercises. 
Han Solo enters the room. 
HAN Well, you can forget your troubles with those Imperial slugs. I told you I'd outrun 'em. 
Luke is once again practicing with the lightsaber. 
HAN Don't everyone thank me at once. 
Threepio watches Chewbacca and Artoo who are engrossed in a game in which three-dimensional holographic figures move along a chess-type board. 
HAN Anyway, we should be at Alderaan about oh-two-hundred hours. 
Chewbacca and the two robots sit around the lighted table covered with small holographic monsters. Each side of the table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur- covered arms over his head. 
THREEPIO Now be careful, Artoo. 
Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his stubby claw hand, causing one of the holographic creatures to walk to the new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot. Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and begins to argue with the huge Wookiee. 
THREEPIO He made a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you. 
HAN (interrupting) Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Wookiee. 
THREEPIO But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid. 
HAN That's 'cause droids don't pull people's arms out of their socket when they lose. Wookiees are known to do that. 
THREEPIO I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, Artoo. Let the Wookiee win. 
Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area; he seems frozen in place. A humming lightsaber is held high over his head. Ben watches him from the corner, studying his movements. Han watches with a bit of smugness. 
BEN Remember, a Jedi can feel the Force flowing through him. 
LUKE You mean it controls your actions? 
BEN Partially. But it also obeys your commands. 
Suspended at eye level, about ten feet in front of Luke, a "seeker", a chrome baseball-like robot covered with antennae, hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of the youth then the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning-swift lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't move and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy, then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood red laser beam as it attacks. It hits Luke in the leg causing him to tumble over. Han lets loose with a burst of laughter. 
HAN Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid. 
LUKE You don't believe in the Force, do you? 
HAN Kid, I've flown from one side of this galaxy to the other. I've seen a lot of strange stuff, but I've never seen anything to make me believe there's one all-powerful force controlling everything. There's no mystical energy field that controls my destiny. 
Ben smiles quietly. 
HAN It's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense. 
BEN I suggest you try it again, Luke. 
Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his eyes. 
BEN This time, let go your conscious self and act on instinct. 
LUKE (laughing) With the blast shield down, I can't even see. How am I supposed to fight? 
BEN Your eyes can deceive you. Don't trust them. 
Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then drops like a rock. Luke swings the lightsaber around blindly missing the seeker, which fires off a laserbolt which hits Luke square on the seat of the pants. He lets out a painful yell and attempts to hit the seeker. 
BEN Stretch out with your feelings. 
Luke stands in one place, seemingly frozen. The seeker makes a dive at Luke and, incredibly, he managed to deflect the bolt. The ball ceases fire and moves back to its original position. 
BEN You see, you can do it. 
HAN I call it luck. 
BEN In my experience, there's no such thing as luck. 
HAN Look, going good against remotes is one thing. Going good against the living? That's something else. 
Solo notices a small light flashing on the far side of the control panel. 
HAN Looks like we're coming up on Alderaan. 
Han and Chewbacca head back to the cockpit. 
LUKE You know, I did feel something. I could almost see the remote. 
BEN That's good. You have taken your first step into a larger world. 
INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM 
Imperial Officer Cass stands before Governor Tarkin and the evil Dark Lord Darth Vader. 
TARKIN Yes. 
OFFICER CASS Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding systems. 
TARKIN She lied! She lied to us! 
VADER I told you she would never consciously betray the Rebellion. 
TARKIN Terminate her... immediately! 
EXT. HYPERSPACE 
The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange surreal light show surrounds the ship. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
HAN Stand by, Chewie, here we go. Cut in the sublight engines. 
Han pulls back on a control lever. Outside the cockpit window stars begin streaking past, seem to decrease in speed, then stop. Suddenly the starship begins to shudder and violently shake about. Asteroids begin to race toward them, battering the sides of the ship. 
HAN What the...? Aw, we've come out of hyperspace into a meteor shower. Some kind of asteroid collision. It's not on any of the charts. 
Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops, bureaucrats, and robots bustle about, ignoring the trio completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious glance. 
Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enters. 
LUKE I can't see a thing in this helmet. 
A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and the elevator car takes off through a vacuum tube. 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN HALLWAY 
Several Imperial officers walk through the wide main passageway. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot similar to Threepio but with an insect face. At the far end of the hallway, a passing flash of Ben Kenobi appears, then disappears down a small hallway. His appearance is so fleeting that it is hard to tell if he is real or just an illusion. No one in the hallway seems to notice him. 
INT. DEATH STAR - INTERIOR ELEVATOR - DETENTION SECURITY AREA 
Luke and Han step forward to exit the elevator, but the door slides open behind them. The giant Wookiee and his two guards enter the old grey security station. Guards and laser gates are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath. 
HAN This is not going to work. 
LUKE Why didn't you say so before? 
HAN I did say so before! 
INT. DETENTION AREA 
Elevator doors open. A tall, grim looking Officer approaches the trio. 
OFFICER Where are you taking this... thing? 
Chewie growls a bit at the remark but Han nudges him to shut up. 
LUKE Prisoner transfer from Block one-one- three-eight. 
OFFICER I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it. 
The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in the information. There are only three other troopers in the area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the alarms, laser gates, and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke. 
Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser rifle. 
HAN Look out! He's loose! 
LUKE He's going to pull us all apart. 
HAN Go get him! 
The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of laserfire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the last of the guards to fall under the laserfire just as he is about to push the alarm system. Han rushes to the comlink system, which is screeching questions about what is going on.  He quickly checks the computer readout. 
HAN We've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in. Here it is... cell twenty-one-eight-seven. You go get her. I'll hold them here. 
Luke races down one of the cell corridors. Han speaks into the buzzing comlink. 
HAN (sounding official) Everything is under control. Situation normal. 
INTERCOM VOICE What happened? 
HAN (getting nervous) Uh... had a slight weapons malfunction. But, uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here, now, thank you. How are you? 
INTERCOM VOICE We're sending a squad up. 
HAN Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor leak here now. Give us a few minutes to lock it down. Large leak... very dangerous. 
INTERCOM VOICE Who is this? What's your operating number? 
Han blasts the comlink and it explodes. 
HAN Boring conversation anyway. (yelling down the hall) Luke! We're going to have company! 
INT. DEATH STAR - CELL ROW 
Luke stops in front of one of the cells and blasts the door away with a laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Luke sees the dazzling young princess-senator. She had been sleeping and is now looking at him with an uncomprehending look on her face. Luke is stunned by her incredible beauty and stands staring at her with his mouth hanging open. 
LEIA (finally) Aren't you a little short to be a stormtrooper? 
Luke takes off his helmet, coming out of it. 
LUKE What? Oh... the uniform. I'm Luke Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you. 
LEIA You're who? 
LUKE I'm here to rescue you. I've got your R2 unit. I'm here with Ben Kenobi. 
LEIA Ben Kenobi is here! Where is he? 
LUKE Come on! 
INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM 
Darth Vader paces the room as Governor Tarkin sits at the far end of the conference table. 
VADER He is here... 
TARKIN Obi-Wan Kenobi! What makes you think so? 
VADER A tremor in the Force. The last time I felt it was in the presence of my old master. 
TARKIN Surely he must be dead by now. 
VADER Don't underestimate the power of the Force. 
TARKIN The Jedi are extinct, their fire has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion. 
There is a quiet buzz on the comlink. 
TARKIN Yes. 
INTERCOM VOICE Governor Tarkin, we have an emergency alert in detention block A A-twenty- three. 
TARKIN The princess! Put all sections on alert! 
VADER Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with him. 
TARKIN If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape. 
VADER Escape is not his plan. I must face him alone. 
LEIA Luke, Luke, grab a hold of this. 
LUKE Blast it, will you! My gun's jammed. 
HAN Where? 
LUKE Anywhere! Oh!! 
Solo fires his gun downward. Luke is pulled back into the muck by the slimy tentacle. 
HAN Luke! Luke! 
Suddenly the walls of the garbage receptacle shudder and move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet. Han and Leia give each other a worried look as Chewbacca howls in the corner. With a rush of bubbles and muck Luke suddenly bobs to the surface. 
LEIA Grab him! 
Luke seems to be released by the thing. 
LEIA What happened? 
LUKE I don't know, it just let go of me and disappeared... 
HAN I've got a very bad feeling about this. 
Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble and edge toward the Rebels. 
LUKE The walls are moving! 
LEIA Don't just stand there. Try to brace it with something. 
They place poles and long metal beams between the closing walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant trashmasher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look too good. 
LUKE Wait a minute! 
Luke pulls out his comlink. 
LUKE Threepio! Come in Threepio! Threepio! Where could he be? 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN GANTRY - COMMAND OFFICE 
A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for See-Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand comlink, which is sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and Threepio are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great explosion and the door of the control tower flies across the floor. Four armed stormtroopers enter the chamber. 
FIRST TROOPER Take over! (pointing to the dead officer) See to him! Look there! 
A trooper pushes a button and the supply cabinet door slides open. See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are inside. Artoo follows his bronze companion out into the office. 
THREEPIO They're madmen! They're heading for the prison level. If you hurry, you might catch them. 
FIRST OFFICER (to his troops) Follow me! You stand guard. 
The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving a guard to watch over the command office. 
THREEPIO (to Artoo) Come on! 
The guard aims a blaster at them. 
THREEPIO Oh! All this excitement has overrun the circuits of my counterpart here. If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down to maintenance. 
TROOPER All right. 
The guard nods and Threepio, with little Artoo in tow, hurries out the door. 
INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM 
As the walls rumble closed, the room gets smaller and smaller. Chewie is whining and trying to hold a wall back with his giant paws. 
Han is leaning back against the other wall. Garbage is snapping and popping. Luke is trying to reach Threepio. 
LUKE Threepio! Come in, Threepio! Threepio! 
Han and Leia try to brace the contracting walls with a pole. Leia begins to sink into the trash. 
HAN Get to the top! 
LEIA I can't 
LUKE Where could he be? Threepio! Threepio, will you come in? 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL 
THREEPIO They aren't here! Something must have happened to them. See if they've been captured. 
Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall socket and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from the tiny robot. 
THREEPIO Hurry! 
INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM 
The walls are only feet apart. Leia and Han are braced against the walls. The princess is frightened. They look at each other. Leia reaches out and takes Han's hand and she holds it tightly. She's terrified and suddenly groans as she feels the first crushing pressure against her body. 
HAN One thing's for sure. We're all going to be a lot thinner! (to Leia) Get on top of it! 
LEIA I'm trying! 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL 
THREEPIO (to Artoo) Thank goodness, they haven't found them! Where could they be? 
Artoo frantically beeps something to See-Threepio. 
THREEPIO Use the comlink? Oh, my! I forgot I turned it off! 
INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM 
Meanwhile, Luke is lying on his side, trying to keep his head above the rising ooze. Luke's comlink begins to buzz and he rips it off his belt. 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL 
Muffled sounds of Luke's voice over the comlink can be heard, but not distinctly. 
THREEPIO Are you there, sir? 
INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM 
Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of the pirateship. Leia moves towards Han, touches his arm and points out the window to the ship. 
LEIA You came in that thing? You're braver that I thought. 
HAN Nice! Come on! 
Han gives her a dirty look, and they start off down the hallway. They round a corner and run right into twenty Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are taken by surprise and stop in their tracks. 
FIRST TROOPER It's them! Blast them! 
Before even thinking, Han draws his laser pistol and charges the troops, firing. His blaster knocks one of the stormtroopers into the air. Chewie follows his captain down the corridor, stepping over the fallen trooper on the floor. 
HAN (to Luke and Leia) Get back to the ship! 
LUKE Where are you going? Come back! 
Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear. 
LEIA He certainly has courage. 
LUKE What good will it do us if he gets himself killed? Come on! 
Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it for muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke and Leia start off toward the starship hangar. 
INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY 
Han chases the stormtroopers down a long subhallway. He is yelling and brandishing his laser pistol. The troops reach a dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few feet from them and assumes a defensive position. The troops begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are moving into an attack position in front of the lone starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops begin to advance. Solo jumps backward as they fire at him. 
INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY 
Chewbacca runs down the subhallway in a last-ditch attempt to save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of laser guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han, pirate extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running the other way also. 
INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY 
Luke fires his laser pistol wildly as he and Leia rush down a narrow subhallway, chased by several stormtroopers. They quickly reach the end of the subhallway and race through an open hatchway. 
INT. DEATH STAR - CENTRAL CORE SHAFT 
Luke and Leia race through the hatch onto a narrow bridge that spans a huge, deep shaft that seems to go into infinity. The bridge has been retracted into the wall of the shaft, and Luke almost rushes into the abyss. He loses his balance off the end of the bridge as Leia, behind him, takes hold of his arm and pulls him back. 
LUKE (gasping) I think we took a wrong turn. 
Blasts from the stormtroopers' laser guns explode nearby reminding them of the oncoming danger. Luke fires back at the advancing troops. Leia reaches over and hits a switch that pops the hatch door shut with a resounding boom, leaving them precariously perched on a short piece of bridge overhang. Laserfire from the troopers continues to hit the steel door. 
LEIA There's no lock! 
Luke blasts the controls with his laser pistol. 
LUKE That oughta hold it for a while. 
LEIA Quick, we've got to get across. Find the control that extends the bridge. 
LUKE Oh, I think I just blasted it. 
Luke looks at the blasted bridge control while the stormtroopers on the opposite side of the door begin making ominous drilling and pounding sounds. 
LEIA They're coming through! 
Luke notices something on his stormtrooper belt, when laserfire hits the wall behind him. Luke aims his laser pistol at a stormtrooper perched on a higher bridge overhang across the abyss from them. They exchange fire. Two more troops appear on another overhang, also firing. A trooper is hit, and grabs at his chest. 
Another trooper standing on the bridge overhang is hit by Luke's laserfire, and plummets down the shaft. Troopers move back off the bridge; Luke hands the gun to Leia. 
LUKE Here, hold this. 
Luke pulls a thin nylon cable from his trooper utility belt. It has a grappler hook on it. A trooper appears on a bridge overhang and fires at Luke and Leia. As Luke works with the rope, Leia returns the laser volley. Another trooper appears and fires at them, as Leia returns his fire as well. Suddenly, the hatch door begins to open, revealing the feet of more troops. 
LEIA Here they come! 
Leia hits one of the stormtroopers on the bridge above, and he falls into the abyss. Luke tosses the rope across the gorge and it wraps itself around an outcropping of pipes. He tugs on the rope to make sure it is secure, then grabs the princess in his arms. Leia looks at Luke, then kisses him quickly on the lips. Luke is very surprised. 
LEIA For luck! 
Luke pushes off and they swing across the treacherous abyss to the corresponding hatchway on the opposite side. Just as Luke and Leia reach the far side of the canyon, the stormtroopers break through the hatch and begin to fire at the escaping duo. Luke returns the fire before ducking into the tiny subhallway. 
INT. DEATH STAR - NARROW PASSAGEWAY 
Ben hides in the shadows of the narrow passageway as several stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks to make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the opposite direction. Darth Vader appears at the far end of the hallway and starts after the old Jedi. 
INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY 
Threepio looks around at the troops milling about the pirateship entry ramp. 
THREEPIO Where could they be? 
Artoo, plugged into the computer socket, turns his dome left and right, beeping a response. 
INT. DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR - BLAST SHIELDS DOOR 
Han and Chewbacca run down a long corridor with several troopers hot on their trail. 
TROOPER Close the blast doors! 
At the end of the hallway, blast doors begin to close in front of them. The young starpilot and his furry companion race past the huge doors just as they are closing, and manage to get off a couple off laserblasts at the pursuing troops before the doors slam shut. 
TROOPER Open the blast doors! Open the blast doors! 
INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY 
Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the hangar where the pirateship waits. Just before he reaches the hangar, Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel, not ten feet away. Vader lights his saber. Ben also ignites his and steps slowly forward. 
VADER I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again, at last. The circle is now complete. 
Ben Kenobi moves with elegant ease into a classical offensive position. The fearsome Dark Knight takes a defensive stance. 
VADER When I left you, I was but the learner; now I am the master. 
BEN Only a master of evil, Darth. 
The two Galactic warriors stand perfectly still for a few moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right moment. Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain, as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes. 
Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked by a lightning movement of The Sith. A masterful slash stroke by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar. The two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments with laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound. 
VADER Your powers are weak, old man. 
Han adjusts his headset as he sits before the controls of his laser cannon, then speaks into the attached microphone. 
HAN (to Luke) You in, kid? Okay, stay sharp! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT 
Chewbacca and Princess Leia search the heavens for attacking TIE fighters. The Wookiee pulls back on the speed controls as the ship bounces slightly. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT - COCKPIT 
Computer graphic readouts form on Solo's target screen, as Han reaches for controls. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT - COCKPIT 
Luke sits in readiness for the attack, his hand on the laser cannon's control button. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT. 
Chewbacca spots the enemy ships and barks. 
LEIA (into intercom) Here they come! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - POV (POINT OF VIEW) - SPACE 
The Imperial TIE fighters move towards the Millennium Falcon, one each veering off to the left and right of the pirateship. 
INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
The stars whip past behind the Imperial pilot as he adjusts his maneuvering joy stick. 
EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - IN SPACE 
The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as it passes. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA 
Threepio is seated in the hold area, next to Artoo-Detoo. The pirateship bounces and vibrates as the power goes out in the room and then comes back on. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS 
A TIE fighter maneuvers in front of Han, who follows it and fires at it with the laser cannon. Luke does likewise, as the fighter streaks into view. The ship has suffered a minor hit, and bounces slightly. 
EXT. SPACE 
Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS 
Luke fires at an unseen fighter. 
LUKE They're coming in too fast! 
EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON/TIE FIGHTERS 
Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CHEWBACCA 
The ship shudders as a laserbolt hits very close to the cockpit. The Wookiee chatters something to Leia. 
EXT. TIE FIGHTER - SPACE 
Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame, firing on the pirate starship. 
EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTERS 
The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the pirateship. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN PASSAGEWAY 
A laserbolt streaks into the side of the pirateship. The ship lurches violently, throwing poor Threepio into a cabinet fill of small computer chips. 
THREEPIO Oooh! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS 
Leia watches the computer readout as Chewbacca manipulates the ship's controls. 
LEIA We've lost lateral controls. 
HAN Don't worry, she'll hold together. 
An enemy laserbolt hits the pirateship's control panel, causing it to blow out in a shower of sparks. 
HAN (to ship) You hear me, baby? Hold together! 
Artoo-Detoo advances toward the smoking sparking control panel, dousing the inferno by spraying it with fire retardant beeping all the while. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT 
Luke swivels in his gun mount, following the TIE fighter with his laser cannon. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT 
Solo aims his laser cannon at the enemy fighter. 
EXT. SPACE 
A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Leia watches the TIE fighter ship fly over. 
EXT. SPACE 
A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms overhead. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS 
Luke follows the TIE fighter across his field of view, firing laserbeams from his cannon. 
EXT. TIE FIGHTER 
LUKE I care! 
Luke, shaking his head, sits in the copilot seat. He and Han stare out at the vast blackness of space. 
LUKE So... what do you think of her, Han? 
HAN I'm trying not to, kid! 
LUKE (under his breath) Good... 
HAN Still, she's got a lot of spirit. I don't know, what do you think? Do you think a princess and a guy like me... 
LUKE No! 
Luke says it with finality and looks away. Han smiles at young Luke's jealousy. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN 
The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons. 
EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN 
The pirateship soars over the dense jungle. 
EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST 
An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside. He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely visible in the foliage. 
EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE TEMPLE 
Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the others are greeted by the Rebel troops. 
Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an armored military speeder. 
INT. MASSASSI - MAIN HANGAR DECK 
The military speeder stops in a huge spaceship hangar, set up in the interior of the crumbling temple. Willard, the commander of the Rebel forces, rushes up to the group and gives Leia a big hug. Every one is pleased to see her. 
WILLARD (holding Leia) You're safe! We had feared the worst. 
Willard composes himself, steps back and bows formally. 
WILLARD When we heard about Alderaan, we were afraid that you were... lost along with your father. 
LEIA We don't have time for our sorrows, Commander. The battle station has surely tracked us here. (looking pointedly to Han) It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape. You must use the information in this R2 unit to plan the attack. It is our only hope. 
EXT. SPACE 
The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red planet Yavin. 
INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM 
Grand Moff Tarkin and Lord Vader are interrupted in their discussion by the buzz of the comlink. Tarkin moves to answer the call. 
TARKIN Yes. 
DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE 
We are approaching the planet Yavin. The Rebel base is on a moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the planet. 
EXT. YAVIN - JUNGLE 
A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape, surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of twisted green. 
INT. MASSASSI - WAR ROOM BRIEFING AREA 
Dodonna stands before a large electronic wall display. Leia and several other senators are to one side of the giant readout. The low-ceilinged room is filled with starpilots, navigators, and a sprinkling of R2-type robots. Everyone is listening intently to what Dodonna is saying. Han and Chewbacca are standing near the back. 
DODONNA The battle station is heavily shielded and carries a firepower greater than half the star fleet. It's defenses are designed around a direct large- scale assault. A small one-man fighter should be able to penetrate the outer defense. 
Gold Leader, a rough looking man in his early thirties, stands and addresses Dodonna. 
GOLD LEADER Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub fighters going to be against that? 
DODONNA Well, the Empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to be any threat, or they'd have a tighter defense. An analysis of the plans provided by Princess Leia has demonstrated a weakness in the battle station. 
Artoo-Detoo stands next to a similar robot, makes beeping sounds, and turns his head from right to left. 
DODONNA The approach will not be easy. You are required to maneuver straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point. The target area is only two meters wide. It's a small thermal exhaust port, right below the main port. The shaft leads directly to the reactor system. A precise hit will start a chain reaction which should destroy the station. 
A murmer of disbelief runs through the room. 
DODONNA Only a precise hit will set up a chain reaction. The shaft is ray- shielded, so you'll have to use proton torpedoes. 
Luke is sitting next to Wedge Antilles, a hotshot pilot about sixteen years old. 
WEDGE That's impossible, even for a computer. 
LUKE It's not impossible. I used to bull's- eye womp rats in my T-sixteen back home. They're not much bigger than two meters. 
DODONNA Man your ships! And may the Force be with you! 
The group rises and begins to leave. 
EXT. SPACE 
The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the tiny green moon. 
INT. DEATH STAR 
Tarkin and Vader watch the computer projected screen with interest, as a circle of lights intertwines around one another on the screen showing it's position in relation to Yavin and the forth moon. 
DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE 
Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity. The moon with the Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes. 
VADER This will be a day long remembered. It has seen the end of Kenobi and it will soon see the end of the Rebellion. 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR DECK 
Luke, Threepio and little Artoo enter the huge spaceship hangar and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters. Flight crews rush around loading last-minute armaments and unlocking power couplings. In an area isolated from this activity Luke finds Han and Chewbacca loading small boxes onto an armored speeder. 
MAN'S VOICE (over loudspeaker) All flight trooper, man your stations. All flight troops, man your stations. 
One of the Rebel fighters checks in through his mike. 
RED TEN Red Ten standing by. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT 
Biggs checks his fighter's controls, alert and ready for combat. 
RED SEVEN (over Biggs' headset) Red Seven standing by. 
BIGGS Red Three standing by. 
INT. PORKINS' COCKPIT 
PORKINS Red Six standing by. 
RED NINE (over headset) Red Nine standing by. 
INT. WEDGE'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
WEDGE Red Two standing by. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
RED ELEVEN (over headset) Red Eleven standing by. 
LUKE Red Five standing by. 
EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER 
Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his head from side to side and makes beeping sounds. 
INT. RED LEADER'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Lock S-foils in attack position. 
EXT. SPACE 
The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X" position. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT 
READ LEADER (over headset) We're passing through their magnetic field. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Hold tight! 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke adjusts his controls as he concentrates on the approaching Death Star. The ship begins to be buffeted slightly. 
RED LEADER (over headset) Switch your deflectors on. 
INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT 
RED LEADER (over headset) Double front! 
EXT. SPACE 
The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The Death Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in size as the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the metallic surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna is built into the surface on one side. 
INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT 
Wedge is amazed and slightly frightened at the awesome spectacle. 
WEDGE Look at the size of that thing! 
RED LEADER (over headset) Cut the chatter, Red Two. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Accelerate to attack speed. This is it, boys! 
EXT. SPACE 
As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half of the deadly space station is in shadow and this area sparkles with thousands of small lights running in thin lines and occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a city at night as seen from a weather satellite. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S COCKPIT 
GOLD LEADER Red Leader, this is Gold Leader. 
RED LEADER (over headset) I copy, Gold Leader. 
GOLD LEADER We're starting for the target shaft now. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
Red Leader looks around at his wingmen; the Death Star looming in from behind. Two Y-wing fighters bob back and forth in the background. He moves his computer targeting device into position. 
RED LEADER We're in position. I'm going to cut across the axis and try and draw their fire. 
EXT. SPACE 
Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across the dark grey expanse of the huge station. 
INT. DEATH STAR 
Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo- powered laser gun emplacements. Electronic drivers rotate the huge guns into position as crew adjust their targeting devices. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel X- wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and fires. 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM 
Princess Leia listens to the battle over the intercom. Threepio is at her side. 
WEDGE (over war room speaker system) Heavy fire, boss! Twenty-degrees. 
RED LEADER (over speaker) I see it. Stay low. 
EXT. SPACE 
LUKE My scope's negative. I don't see anything. 
INT. RED LEADER'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING 
The Death Star's surface sweeps past as Red Leader searches the sky for the Imperial fighters. Flak pounds at his ship. 
RED LEADER Keep up your visual scanning. With all this jamming, they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up. 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon, four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters. Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan with the remaining two TIE ships. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING 
Biggs panics when he discovers a TIE ship on his tail. The horizon in the background twists around as he peels off, hoping to lose the Imperial fighter. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Biggs! You've picked one up... watch it! 
BIGGS I can't see it! Where is he?! 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several laserbolts at Biggs, but misses. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING 
Biggs see the TIE ship behind him and swings around, trying to avoid him. 
BIGGS He's on me tight, I can't shake him... I can't shake him. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward the Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE fighter, who sticks close to his tail. 
INT. X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING 
Luke is flying upside down. He rotates his ship around to normal attitude as he comes out of his dive. 
LUKE Hang on, Biggs, I'm coming in. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter. 
EXT. SURFACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the Death Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the background. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING 
There is a shot from Luke's X-wing of the TIE ship exploding in a mass of flames. 
LUKE Got him! 
INT. DEATH STAR 
Darth Vader strides purposefully down a Death Star corridor, flanked by Imperial stormtroopers. 
VADER Several fighters have broken off from the main group. Come with me! 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM 
A concerned Princess Leia, Threepio, Dodonna, and other officers of the Rebellion stand around the huge round readout screen, listening to the ship-to-ship communication on the room's loudspeaker. 
BIGGS (over speaker) Pull in! Luke... pull in! 
WEDGE (over speaker) Watch your back, Luke! 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
WEDGE (over headset) Watch your back! Fighter's above you, coming in! 
EXT. SPACE 
Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he spots the tailing TIE fighter. 
INT. TIE FIGHTER'S COCKPIT 
The TIE pilot takes aim at Luke's X-wing. 
EXT. SPACE 
The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship. Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke looks out of his cockpit at the flames on his ship. 
LUKE I'm hit, but not bad. 
EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER 
Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo. 
LUKE'S VOICE Artoo, see what you can do with it. Hang on back there. 
Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his head turns. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT 
Luke nervously works his controls. 
RED LEADER (over headset) Red Six... 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM 
In the war room, Leia stands frozen as she listens and worries about Luke. 
RED LEADER (over speaker) Can you see Red Five? 
RED TEN (over speaker) There's a heavy fire zone on this side. Red Five, where are you? 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
GOLD LEADER How many guns do you think, Gold Five. 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM 
GOLD FIVE (over speaker) I'd say about twenty guns. Some on the surface, some on the towers. 
Leia, Threepio, and the technicians view the projected target screen, as red and blue target lights glow. The red target near the center blinks on and off. 
MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE (over speaker) Death Star will be in range in five minutes. 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom overhead through a hail of laserfire. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Gold Leader pulls his computer targeting device down in front of his eye. Laserbolts continue to batter the Rebel craft. 
GOLD LEADER Switching to targeting computer. 
INT. GOLD TWO'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Gold Two, a younger pilot about Luke's age, pulls down his targeting eye viewer and adjusts it. His ship shudders under intense laser barrage. 
GOLD TWO Computer's locked. Getting a signal. 
As the fighters begin to approach the target area, suddenly all the laserfire stops. An eerie clam clings over the trench as the surface whips past in a blur. 
GOLD TWO The guns... they've stopped! 
EXT. GOLD FIVE'S COCKPIT 
Gold Five looks behind him. 
GOLD FIVE Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch for enemy fighters. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
GOLD LEADER They've coming in! Three marks at two ten. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked by two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically toward the Death Star surface. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars zoom by. 
VADER I'll take them myself! Cover me! 
WINGMAN'S VOICE (over speaker) Yes, sir. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader lines up Gold Two in his targeting computer. Vader's hands grip the control stick as he presses the button. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
The cockpit explodes around Gold Two. His head falls forward. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Gold Leader looks over his shoulder at the scene. 
EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH 
The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight formation. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Gold Leader panics. 
GOLD LEADER (into mike) I can't maneuver! 
INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Gold Five, the old veteran, trys to calm Gold Leader. 
GOLD FIVE Stay on target. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
The Death Star races by outside the cockpit window as he adjusts his targeting device. 
GOLD LEADER We're too close. 
INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
The older pilot remains calm. 
GOLD FIVE Stay on target! 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
Now he's really panicked. 
GOLD LEADER Loosen up! 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader calmly adjusts his targeting computer and pushes the fire button. 
INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Keep your eyes open for those fighters! 
INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT 
RED TEN There's too much interference! 
EXT. SPACE - DEATH STAR TRENCH 
Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star trench. 
RED TEN'S VOICE Red Five, can you see them from where you are? 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke looks down at the Death Star surface below. 
LUKE No sign of any... wait! 
INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT 
Red Ten looks up and sees the Imperial fighters. 
LUKE (over headset) Coming in point three five. 
RED TEN I see them. 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
Red Leader pulls his targeting device in front of his eyes and makes several adjustments. 
RED LEADER I'm in range. 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
RED LEADER Target's coming up! 
Red Leader looks at his computer target readout screen. He then looks into his targeting device. 
RED LEADER Just hold them off for a few seconds. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader adjusts his control lever and dives on the X-wing fighters. 
VADER Close up formation. 
EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH 
The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death Star surface. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
Red Leader lines up his target on the targeting device cross hairs. 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader rapidly approaches the two X-wings of Red Ten and Red Twelve. Vader's laser cannon flashes below the view of the front porthole. the X-wings show in the center of Vader's computer screen. 
EXT. SPACE 
Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and it explodes into flames against the trench. 
INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT 
Red Ten works at his controls furiously, trying to avoid Vader's fighter behind him. 
RED TEN: You'd better let her loose. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
Red Leader is concentrating on his targeting device. 
RED LEADER Almost there! 
INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT. 
Red Ten panics. 
RED TEN I can't hold them! 
EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR 
Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of the Rebel fighters. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader cooly pushes the fire button on his control stick. 
INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT 
Darth Vader's well-aimed laserfire proves to be unavoidable, and strikes Red Ten's ship. Red Ten screams in anguish and pain. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
Grimly, Red Leader takes careful aim and watches his computer targeting device, which shows the target lined up in the cross hairs, and fires. 
INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT 
EXT. DEATH STAR - GUN EMPLACEMENTS 
The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots laserbolts. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke looks around for the Imperial TIE fighters. He thinks for a moment and then moves his targeting device into position. 
LUKE Watch yourself! Increase speed full throttle! 
INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT 
Wedge looks excitedly about for any sign of the TIE fighters. 
WEDGE What about the tower? 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
LUKE You worry about those fighters! I'll worry about the tower! 
EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE 
Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke breaks into a nervous sweat as the laserfire is returned, knicking one of his wings close to the engine. 
LUKE (to Artoo) Artoo... that, that stabilizer's broken loose again! See if you can't lock it down! 
EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER 
Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by in the background, making his delicate task seem even more precarious. 
EXT. DEATH STAR 
Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters. 
INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT 
Wedge looks up and sees the TIE ships. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke's targeting device marks off the distance to the target. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Vader and his wingmen zoom closer. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader adjusts his controls and fires laserbolts at two X- wings flying down the trench. He scores a direct hit on Wedge. 
INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM 
Leia and the others are grouped around the computer board. 
WEDGE (over speaker) I'm hit! I can't stay with you. 
LUKE (over speaker) Get clear, Wedge. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
LUKE You can't do any more good back there! 
INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT 
WEDGE Sorry! 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader watches the escape but issues a command to his wingmen. 
VADER Let him go! Stay on the leader! 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters, still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT 
Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters. He is worried. 
BIGGS Hurry, Luke, they're coming in much faster this time. I can't hold them! 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke and Biggs. 
INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT 
Luke looks back anxiously at little Artoo. 
LUKE Artoo, try and increase the power! 
EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER 
Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping Artoo- Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning from side to side. 
EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR 
Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer. 
INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT 
Vader adjusts his control stick. 
INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT 
