THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK 
Written by 
Lawrence Kasdan 
and 
Leigh Brackett 
From a story by George Lucas 
EXT. GALAXY - PLANET HOTH 
A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe robots from its underside. 
One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands on its ice- covered surface.  An explosion marks the point of impact. 
EXT. HOTH - METEORITE CRATER - SNOW PLAIN - DAY 
A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the wind.  A strange probe robot, with several extended sensors, emerges from the smoke-shrouded crater.  The ominous mechanical probe floats across the snow plain and disappears into the distance. 
EXT. PLAIN OF HOTH - DAY 
A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope.  The bundled rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a Tauntaun.  Curving plumes of snow rise from beneath the speeding paws of the two-legged beast. 
The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a stop.  Pulling off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker notices something in the sky.  He takes a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt and through them sees smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed. 
The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a comlink transmitter.  His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously beneath him. 
LUKE (into comlink) Echo Three to Echo Seven.  Han, old buddy, do you read me? 
After a little static a familiar voice is heard. 
HAN (over comlink) Loud and clear, kid.  What's up? 
LUKE (into comlink) Well, I finished my circle.  I don't pick up any life readings. 
HAN (over comlink) There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. The sensors are placed, I'm going back. 
LUKE (into comlink) Right.  I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite that hit the ground near here.  I want to check it out.  It won't take long. 
Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it. 
LUKE Hey, steady girl.  What's the matter?  You smell something? 
Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind.  He hears a monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over him.  It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously. 
LUKE Aaargh! 
Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white claw.  He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck being broken. 
The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away across the frozen plain. 
EXT. HOTH - REBEL BASE ENTRANCE - DAY 
A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance of an enormous ice cave. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK 
Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise securing their new base.  The rider, Han Solo, swings off his lizard and pulls off his goggles. 
He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium Falcon, which is parked among several fighters.  Mechanics, R2 units, and various other droids hurry about.  Han stops at the Millennium Falcon where his Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is welding on a central lifter.  Chewie stops his work and lifts his face shield, growling an irritated greeting to his boss. 
HAN Chewie! 
The Wookiee grumbles a reply. 
HAN All right, don't lose your temper. I'll come right back and give you a hand. 
Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han leaves. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER 
A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick ice.  The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers, troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and monitoring radar signals. 
General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach. 
RIEEKAN Solo? 
HAN No sign of life out there, General. The sensors are in place.  You'll know if anything comes around. 
RIEEKAN Commander Skywalker reported in yet? 
HAN No.  He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him. 
RIEEKAN (indicates radar screen) With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships. 
HAN (reeling from the odor) Whew... 
LUKE Dagobah... 
HAN This may smell bad, kid... 
LUKE (moaning) Yoda... 
HAN ...but it will keep you warm... til I get the shelter built. (struggling to get Luke inside the carcass) Ooh... I thought they smelled bad on the outside! 
The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move.  Han removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter container.  He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection against a bitter Hoth night. 
EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAWN 
Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white landscape. 
INT. SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT 
There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man craft.  He concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit.  He hears a low beep from one of his monitors. 
ZEV (into transmitter) Echo Base... I've got something!  Not much, but it could be a life form. 
EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT 
The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off in a new direction. 
INT. SNOWSPEEDER - COCKPIT 
The pilot switches over to a new transmitter. 
ZEV (into transmitter) This is Rogue Two.  this is Rogue Two.  Captain Solo, so you copy? Commander Skywalker, do you copy? This is Rogue Two. 
There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice. 
HAN (filtered over Zev's receiver) Good morning.  Nice of you guys to drop by. 
ZEV (switching transmitters) Echo Base... this is Rogue Two.  I found them.  Repeat, I found them. 
EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAY 
The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the windward side. A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the snowdrift.  Han spots Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the distance, and begins waving his arms frantically at the tiny craft. 
INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER 
Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic equipment.  A switch is thrown and a sudden blinding flash obscures Luke in a bacta tank filled with a thick, gelatinous slime.  He begins to thrash about, raving in delirium. 
INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER - RECOVERY ROOM 
Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling.  His face shows terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack.  Threepio and Artoo enter the room. 
THREEPIO Master Luke, sir, it's so good to see you fully functional again. 
Artoo beeps his good wishes. 
THREEPIO Artoo expresses his relief, also. 
Han and Chewie make their entrance.  The Wookiee growls a greeting. 
HAN How are you feeling, kid?  You don't look so bad to me.  In fact, you look strong enough to pull the ears off a Gundark. 
LUKE Thanks to you. 
HAN That's two you owe me, junior. 
Han turns as Leia enters the room.  He looks at her with a big, devilish grin. 
HAN Well your Worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a little while longer. 
LEIA (haughtily) I had nothing to do with it.  General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated the energy shield. 
HAN That's a good story.  I think you just can't bear to let a gorgeous guy like me out of your sight. 
LEIA I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brain. 
Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner.  Han, enjoying himself, regards Chewie good-humoredly. 
HAN Laugh it up, fuzzball.  But you didn't see us alone in the south passage. 
Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia. 
HAN She expressed her true feelings for me. 
Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han. 
LEIA My...!  Why, you stuck up,... half- witted... scruffy-looking ...nerf- herder! 
HAN Who's scruffy-looking? (to Luke) I must have hit pretty close to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid? 
Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base. Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance. 
VADER You found something? 
PIETT Yes, my lord. 
VADER (studying the image on the console screen) That's it.  The Rebels are there. 
OZZEL My lord, there are so many uncharted settlements.  It could be smugglers, it could be... 
VADER That is the system.  And I'm sure Skywalker is with them.  Set your course for the Hoth system.  General Veers, prepare you men. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - TRANSPORT BAY 
A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the entrance to the main transport bay.  Several Rebel transports behind them are being loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and moving quickly, but not in panic. 
REBEL CAPTAIN Groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the speeders.  As soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will give clearance for immediate launch. 
REBEL FIGHTER Right, sir. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK 
Alarms sound.  Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to their alert stations.  Armored snowspeeders are lined up in attack formation near the main entrance. 
In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic welding on the lifters of the Millennium Falcon. 
Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor.  He pulls out his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic lifters. 
HAN (into comlink, to Chewie) Okay, that's it.  Try it... Off! Turn it off!  Turn it off!  Off! 
Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter.  Exasperated, Han surveys the new damage. 
INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER 
Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his attending medical droid stands by. 
MEDICAL DROID Sir, it will take quite a while to evacuate the T-forty- sevens. 
LUKE Well, forget the heavy equipment. There's plenty of time to get the smaller modules on the transports. 
MEDICAL DROID Take care, sir. 
LUKE Thanks. 
INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK 
Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about.  Luke, pulling on his heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders.  He stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before. 
LUKE Chewie, take care of yourself, okay? 
As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and gives him a tight hug.  Han is discussing the lifter with a repair droid when he sees Luke. 
HAN Hi, kid. (to droid) There's got to be a reason for it.  Check it at the other end. Wait a second. (to Luke) You all right? 
LUKE Yeah. 
HAN Be careful. 
LUKE You, too. 
Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on.  After a few steps, he stops and looks back.  Han glances up and the two exchange a silent communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things, all difficult to verbalize. 
INT. REBEL BASE - CONTROL ROOM. 
Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base.  In the control room, a controller urgently gestures for General Rieekan to check a computer scan. 
CONTROLLER General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace in sector four. 
RIEEKAN Reroute all power to the energy shield.  We've got to hold them till all transports are away.  Prepare for ground assault. 
Rieekan exits hurriedly. 
INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER - MEDITATION CUBICLE 
The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light which falls on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised meditation cube. General Veers enters the room and approaches the silent, unmoving Vader.  Although seemingly very sure of himself, Veers is still not bold enough to interrupt the meditating lord.  The younger general stands quietly at attention until the evil presence speaks. 
VADER What is it, General? 
VEERS My lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed.  Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of the Hoth system.  The field is strong enough to deflect any bombardment. 
VADER (angrily) The Rebels are alerted to our presence.  Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close to the system. 
VEERS He felt surprise was wiser... 
VADER He is as clumsy as he is stupid. General, prepare your troops for a surface attack. 
VEERS Yes, my lord. 
DACK Feeling all right, sir? 
LUKE Just like new, Dack.  How about you? 
DACK Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empire myself. 
LUKE (quietly, strapping in) I know what you mean. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN 
A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape.  Small dot-size objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the direction of the Rebel base. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH 
A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his eyes.  Through the lens he sees a very close view of a giant Imperial snow walker.  He adjusts the view which then zooms back to reveal three more of the ominous battle machines.  Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the guns of the lumbering snow walkers. 
The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic pounding begins to make the ground vibrate.  The pounding grows louder and is accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic rattling.  The officer speaks into his comlink. 
TRENCH OFFICER Echo Station Three-T-Eight. 
INT. REBEL BASE - CORRIDOR 
Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders.  Ice and snow begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken by the pounding Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer. 
TRENCH OFFICER (over comlink) We have spotted Imperial walkers! 
CONTROLLER Imperial walkers on the north ridge. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH 
The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt all around them.  They are nervous and their grip on their weapons tightens from the cold and from fear. 
Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky. 
INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT 
LUKE (into comlink) Echo station Five-Seven.  We're on our way. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD 
The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full throttle. They accelerate away from the base and head toward the distant walkers. 
INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT 
LUKE (into comlink) All right, boys, keep tight now. 
DACK Luke, I have no approach vector. I'm not set. 
LUKE Steady, Dack.  Attack pattern delta.  Go now! 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD 
The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the speeders.  Other walkers loom in the background.  Two speeders race away past two of the enormous walkers and bank to the right. 
INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT 
LUKE All right, I'm coming in. 
He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying toward its towering legs.  The horizon twists as the speeder banks between the legs. 
LUKE (into comlink) Hobbie, you still with me? 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD 
Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then split and fly past it. 
Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOWTRENCH 
Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow and ice explode all around them. 
EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD 
A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker.  Two other speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite direction.  Other Rebel craft race just above the icy plain. 
A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a snowspeeder and sending it crashing in a ball of flames. 
INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT 
General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on the racing Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering war machine forward. 
Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and heads straight for its viewport, blasting away.  An explosion hits the walker window, but dissipates, doing no harm.  The speeder roars up and over the impregnable war machine. 
INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT 
Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the distance. 
Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward the Rebel headquarters. 
EXT. HOTH - SNOW TRENCH 
Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers looming ever nearer. 
EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD - ICE PLAIN 
On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and moves over him.  He looks up at the underbelly of the huge walker, passing overhead. 
Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his harpoon gun at the walker's underside.  A thin cable follows the projectile from the gun.  The magnetic head and cable attach firmly to the metal hull. 
Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable drum to his belt buckle.  Soon he is pulled up the cable and hangs dangling underneath the walker. 
The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the frozen snow.  Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up the cable to the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch.  Hanging precariously, Luke cuts the solid metal hatch with his laser sword. 
He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it inside the Imperial machine.  Quickly, Luke starts down the cable and crashes onto the icy ground far below.  He lies unconscious as a giant rear leg passes by - and just misses him. 
The giant walker stops in mid-step.  A muffled explosion comes from within - and then the walker's mechanical insides  are spewed out every conceivable opening.  The machine sits dead in its tracks, smoking like a locomotive on stilts. 
EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD 
Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base.  The smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just to the right of Veers's path. 
INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT 
Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the Rebel power generators. 
VEERS Distance to power generators? 
PILOT One-seven, decimal two-eight. 
Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main generator. 
VEERS Target.  Maximum fire power. 
EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD 
The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed back by the relentless Imperial assault. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDORS 
With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the crumbling ice corridors.  Suddenly, there is an explosion.  Han turns, grabs the princess, and pulls her to the wall as a tremendous cave-in blacks their path. 
He takes the comlink from his pocket. 
HAN (into comlink) Transport, this is Solo.  Better take off - I can't get to you. I'll get the princess out on the Falcon. 
Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor. 
THREEPIO But... but... but... where are you going?  Uh... come back!! 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER 
Imperial troops have reached the base.  As they push through the blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR 
Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar where the Millennium Falcon is docked.  Threepio still lags behind. 
THREEPIO Wait!  Wait for me!  Wait!  Stop! 
The door to the hangar closes in his face. 
THREEPIO (exasperated) How typical. 
Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid through. 
HAN Come on. 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR 
Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's landing gear. The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his beloved ship and barks a few reassuring words.  As he searches worriedly for his captain, something at last catches his eye. 
Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia running toward the ship.  The Wookiee runs out into the falling ice, lets out a howl, then runs up the ship's ramp.  Han and Leia run up the ramp after him, closely followed by Threepio. 
HAN Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident! 
THREEPIO Wait!  Wait! 
INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR 
Imperial troops run through the base corridors.  Vader surveys the place.  A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but  he calmly, purposefully, continues around it. 
INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGER - MILLENNIUM FALCON 
A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck.  Ice cakes come crashing down on the Millennium Falcon. 
Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision.  He flips several switches.  The stars shift as he takes his fighter into a steep turn. The X-wing banks sharply and flies away in a new direction. 
The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a question from the concerned Artoo. 
LUKE (into comlink) There's nothing wrong, Artoo. I'm just setting a new course. 
Artoo beeps once again. 
LUKE (into comlink) We're not going to regroup with the others. 
Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!" 
Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel. 
LUKE (into comlink) We're going to the Dagobah system. 
Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments.  He rides along with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence. Finally, Artoo chirps up. 
LUKE (into comlink) Yes, Artoo? 
Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles. 
LUKE (into comlink, chuckling) That's all right.  I'd like to keep it on manual control for a while. 
The little droid lets out a defeated whimper.  Luke smiles, and continues on his course. 
EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON 
The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely followed by one huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE fighters. 
As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright star-sized objects. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl.  Han checks as the ship is buffeted by exploding flak.  He appears to be doing six things at once. 
HAN (harried) I saw them!  I saw them! 
LEIA Saw what? 
HAN Star Destroyers, two of them, coming right at us. 
Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit. 
THREEPIO Sir, sir!  Might I suggest... 
HAN (to Leia) Shut him up or shut him down! (to Chewie) Check the deflector shield! 
Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch. 
HAN Oh, great.  Well, we can still outmaneuver them. 
EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYERS 
The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming Star Destroyers.  Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive straight down, closely followed by four TIE fighters.  The underside of the Star Destroyer continues on a collision course with two oncoming Star Destroyers.  Slowly, it starts to veer to the left. 
INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers can be seen veering to the left. 
IMPERIAL OFFICER Take evasive action! 
Alarms sound all over the huge ship.  The two other Star Destroyers get closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes brushing contact with it. 
EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS 
The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star Destroyers, still followed by four TIE fighters.  Laser bolts spark the pitch-black skies. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet.  Chewie barks at Han.  Leia is still trying to recover from the steep dive. The ship is buffeted by laser blasts. 
HAN Prepare to make the jump to light- speed. 
THREEPIO But, sir! 
The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger. 
LEIA They're getting closer! 
HAN (with a gleam in his eye) Oh yeah?  Watch this. 
Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into hyperspace, but just sit there. 
Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of concern. 
LEIA Watch what? 
Han tries again.  Still nothing. 
LEIA I take it back.  We're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer. 
The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window. 
HAN I'm not going to argue with that. 
THREEPIO Pulverized? 
HAN I'm going in closer to one of those big ones. 
LEIA Closer? 
THREEPIO Closer?! 
Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder. 
EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID BELT 
The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of the moon-sized asteroids.  There is a continued display of explosions against the starry void as smaller asteroids collide with larger chunks of rock. The two remaining TIE fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid. The Falcon skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while, small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship. 
The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid hurtles directly into their path.  As the asteroid continues on its way, it leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to tumble into deep space. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is nearly in hysterics. 
THREEPIO Oh, this is suicide! 
Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful Wookiee, pointing. 
HAN There.  That looks pretty good. 
LEIA What looks pretty good? 
HAN Yeah.  That'll do nicely. 
THREEPIO (to Leia) Excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going? 
Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater. 
EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID CRATER 
The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and disappears. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
LEIA I hope you know what you're doing. 
HAN Yeah, me too. 
INT. GIANT ASTEROID CRATER 
The Falcon races down into the crater.  The walls are barely visible as the ship speed through the tunnellike opening.  A small cave appears on one side of the crater, and the Falcon turns, slows, and scoots into it. 
EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING 
The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah.  Artoo, riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back and forth with some anxiety. 
INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT 
Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and screened on the computer scope. 
LUKE (into comlink) Yes, that's it.  Dagobah. 
Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry. 
LUKE (into comlink) No, I'm not going to change my mind about this. (getting a little nervous) I'm not picking up any cities or technology.  Massive life-form readings, though.  There's something alive down there... 
Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question. 
LUKE (into comlink) Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids. 
EXT. SPACE - DAGOBAH -  LUKE'S X-WING 
The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above the cloud- covered planet. 
INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT 
Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer to the planet. He must operate his controls carefully since the cloud cover has completely obscured his vision.  An alarm buzzes in the background, Artoo beeps and whistles frantically. 
LUKE (into comlink) I know, I know!  All the scopes are dead.  I can't see a thing!  Just hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle... 
The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's electronic squeals.  Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the spacecraft stops.  Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open. 
EXT. DAGOBAH - DUSK 
The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the thick fog. Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the spacecraft as Artoo pops out of his cubbyhole on the back.  The young warrior surveys the fog, which is barely pierced by the ship's landing lights.  About all he can make out are some giant, twisted trees nearby.  Artoo whistles anxiously. 
LEIA Captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited. 
HAN Sorry, sweetheart.  We haven't got time for anything else. 
Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the door.  Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face. 
EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG CLEARING - DUSK 
The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very gloomy-looking swamp. 
Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing.  He ignites a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before it.  Taking a power cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike socket. 
LUKE Ready for some power?  Okay. Let's see now.  Put that in there.  There you go. 
The droid whistles his appreciation.  Luke then opens a container of processed food and sits before the thermal heater. 
LUKE (sighs) Now all I have to do is find this Yoda... if he even exists. 
Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle. 
LUKE Still... there's something familiar about this place.  I feel like... I don't know... 
STRANGE VOICE Feel like what? 
Luke jumps out of his skin.  Artoo screeches in terror.  The young warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the speaker.  Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange, bluish creature, not more than two feet tall.  The wizened little thing is dressed in rags.  It motions toward Luke's sword. 
LUKE (looking at the creature) Like we're being watched! 
CREATURE Away with your weapon!  I mean you no harm. 
After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really doesn't understand why.  Artoo watches with interest. 
CREATURE I am wondering, why are you here? 
LUKE I'm looking for someone. 
CREATURE Looking?  Found someone, you have, I would say, hmmm? 
The little creature laughs. 
LUKE (Trying to keep from smiling) Right. 
CREATURE Help you I can.  Yes, mmmm. 
LUKE I don't think so.  I'm looking for a great warrior. 
CREATURE Ahhh!  A great warrior. (laughs and shakes his head) Wars not make one great. 
With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of the cases of supplies.  He begins to rummage around. 
Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his disapproval. 
Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from and takes a bite. 
LUKE Put that down.  Hey!  That's my dinner! 
The creature spits out the bite he has taken.  He makes a face. 
CREATURE How you get so big, eating food of this kind? 
He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of Luke's supply cases. 
LUKE Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you just... 
CREATURE (teasing) Aww, cannot get your ship out? 
The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case.  Luke loses patience and grabs the case away.  The creature retains his prize - a tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight. 
LUKE Hey, you could have broken this. Don't do that.  Ohhh... you're making a mess.  Hey, give me that! 
CREATURE (retreating with the lamp) Mine!  Or I will help you not. 
Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing closer to Artoo.  As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by the creature. 
LUKE I don't want your help.  I want my lamp back.  I'll need it to get out of this slimy mudhole. 
CREATURE Mudhole?  Slimy?  My home this is. 
Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately engaged in a tug-of-war over it. 
Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats." 
CREATURE Ah, ah, ah! 
LUKE Oh, Artoo, let him have it! 
CREATURE Mine!  Mine! 
Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him... very slowly. 
HAN You like me because I'm a scoundrel. There aren't enough scoundrels in your life. 
Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words. 
LEIA I happen to like nice men. 
HAN I'm a nice man. 
LEIA No, you're not.  You're... 
He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips.  He takes his time, as though he had forever, bending her body backward.  She has never been kissed like this before, and it almost makes her faint.  When he stops, she regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it hard to talk. 
Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly. 
THREEPIO Sir, sir!  I've isolated the reverse power flux coupling. 
Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace. 
HAN Thank you.  Thank you very much. 
THREEPIO Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir. 
The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio. 
EXT. SPACE - ASTEROID FIELD 
The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void, intently seeking its prey. 
INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE 
Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the bridge window.  Darth Vader stands, staring out the window above the control deck.  Then slowly turns toward the bridge.  Before him are the hologram images of twenty battleship commanders.  One of these images, the commander of a ship that has just exploded, is fading away quickly. Another image, in the center and a little apart from the others, is faded and continually disrupted by static.  It is the image of Captain Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail of the Millennium Falcon.  Admiral Piett and an aide stand behind the Dark Lord. 
NEEDA (in hologram) ... and that, Lord Vader, was the last time they appeared in any of our scopes.  Considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they must have been destroyed. 
VADER No, Captain, they're alive.  I want every ship available to sweep the asteroid field until they are found. 
The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to Admiral Piett. 
PIETT Lord Vader. 
VADER Yes, Admiral, what is it? 
The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet. 
PIETT The Emperor commands you make contact with him. 
VADER Move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a clear transmission. 
PIETT Yes, my lord. 
EXT. ASTEROID FIELD - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER 
Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea of stars away from the rest of the fleet. 
INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER 
The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber.  A strange sound enters the room and a light begins to play across Vader's black figure. He looks up and bows quickly. 
A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes before Vader.  The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are reminiscent of the cloak worn by Ben Kenobi.  His voice is even deeper and more frightening than Vader's. 
VADER What is thy bidding, my master? 
EMPEROR There is a great disturbance in the Force. 
VADER I have felt it. 
EMPEROR We have a new enemy - Luke Skywalker. 
VADER Yes, my master. 
EMPEROR He could destroy us. 
VADER He's just a boy.  Obi-Wan can no longer help him. 
EMPEROR The Force is strong with him.  The son of Skywalker must not become a Jedi. 
VADER If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally. 
EMPEROR Yes.  Yes.  He would be a great asset.  Can it be done? 
VADER He will join us or die, my master. 
Vader kneels.  The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord of the Sith and fades away. 
EXT. DAGOBAH - CREATURE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
THREEPIO There it is.  Listen!  Listen! 
HAN I'm going out there. 
LEIA Are you crazy?! 
HAN I just got this bucket back together.  I'm not going to let something tear it apart. 
He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out.  Leia follows. 
LEIA Then I'm going with you. 
THREEPIO I think it might be better if I stay here and guard the ship. (hears another mysterious noise) Oh, no. 
EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON 
It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to see what is attacking the ship. 
Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave. 
LEIA This ground sure feels strange. It doesn't feel like rock at all. 
Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline of the cave. 
HAN There's an awful lot of moisture in here. 
LEIA I don't know.  I have a bad feeling about this. 
HAN Yeah. 
Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's cockpit.  A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of the Falcon.  The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it with a laser bolt. 
HAN (to Leia) Watch out! 
The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front of the princess.  Han bends down to investigate the dead creature. 
HAN Yeah, that's what I thought. Mynock.  Chewie, check the rest of the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached.  They're chewing on the power cables. 
LEIA Mynocks? 
HAN Go on inside.  We'll clean them off if there are any more. 
Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air.  Leia puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the ship.  Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster.  Several of the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit window of the Falcon.  Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence. 
THREEPIO Ohhh!  Go away!  Go away!  Beastly little thing.  Shoo!  Shoo! 
Han looks around the strange, dripping cave. 
HAN Wait a minute... 
He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave. The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle. 
Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han. The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their faces and run up the platform. 
INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ENTRY AREA 
As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the main hatch. The ship continues to shake and heave. 
HAN All right, Chewie, let's get out of here! 
The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel.  Leia hurries after. 
LEIA The Empire is still out there. I don't think it's wise to... 
Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit. 
HAN (interrupting) No time to discuss this in committee. 
And with that he is gone.  The main engines of the Falcon begin to whine.  Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship. 
LEIA (angry) I am not a committee! 
INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the throttle.  The cave-quake has greatly diminished. 
LEIA You can't make the jump to light- speed in this asteroid field... 
HAN Sit down, sweetheart.  We're taking off! 
As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks.  He notices something out the window ahead.  Threepio sees it too. 
THREEPIO Look! 
HAN I see it, I see it. 
Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen surrounding the entrance.  And as the Falcon moves forward, the entrance to the cave grows ever smaller.  Han pulls hard on the throttle, sending his ship surging forward. 
FIRST CONTROLLER Yes, sir. 
PIETT Those Rebels won't escape us. 
A second controller interrupts. 
SECOND CONTROLLER Sir, we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger. 
PIETT Right. 
The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune hunters  There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge, bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle- scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit. 
VADER ... there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon.  You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want them alive.  No disintegrations. 
BOBA FETT As you wish. 
At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement. 
PIETT Lord Vader!  My lord, we have them. 
EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT 
The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a firing Imperial Star Destroyer.  A large asteroid about the same size as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship.  The tiny Falcon banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface. Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window.  Threepio checks a tracking scope an the side control panel while Leia watches tensely out the window. 
THREEPIO Oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field. 
Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside.  A bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side. 
EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID FIELD 
The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star Destroyer which creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of the smaller ship.  The Falcon tilts steeply, then rights itself. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Han corrects the angle of his ship. 
HAN Let's get out of here.  Ready for light-speed?  One... two... three! 
Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens.  Flak bursts continue to rock the ship. 
HAN (frantic) It's not fair! 
Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and captain.  Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle. 
HAN The transfer circuits are working. It's not my fault! 
Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining. 
LEIA (almost expecting it) No light-speed? 
HAN It's not my fault. 
THREEPIO Sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield.  One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for. 
Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever. 
HAN Turn her around. 
Chewie barks in puzzlement. 
HAN I said turn her around!  I'm going to put all power in the front shield. 
LEIA You're going to attack them?! 
THREEPIO Sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an Imperial Star Destroyer... 
LEIA Shut up! 
EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID FIELD 
The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn.  In the next moment it is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking very small against the massive surface of the Imperial ship.  As it moves across the surface of the Star Destroyer, the Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous flak bursts. 
INT. STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - BRIDGE 
The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge.  The Imperials stationed there are stunned to see the small spaceship racing low across the hull, headed directly at the huge windows of the bridge area.  Alarms go off everywhere.  The Destroyer's commander, Captain Needa, can scarcely believe his eyes. 
NEEDA They're moving to attack position!  Shields up! 
Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window.  At the last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight.  All is quiet. 
NEEDA Track them.  They may come around for another pass. 
TRACKING OFFICER Captain Needa, the ship no longer appears on our scopes. 
EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM 
Lando stops ten feet from Han.  The two men eye each other carefully. Lando shakes his head. 
LANDO Why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler!  You've got a lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled. 
Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?" 
Lando moves threateningly toward Han.  Suddenly, he throws his arms around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him. 
LANDO (laughs) How you doing, you old pirate? So good to see you!  I never thought I'd catch up with you again.  Where you been? 
The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling. 
EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON. 
THREEPIO Well, he seems very friendly. 
LEIA (wary) Yes... very friendly. 
EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM 
LANDO What are you doing here? 
HAN (gestures toward the Falcon) Ahh... repairs.  I thought you could help me out. 
LANDO (in mock panic) What have you done to my ship? 
HAN Your ship?  Hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square. 
Chewie growls a reserved greeting.  Lando suddenly notices the princess and smiles. 
LANDO Hello.  What have we here? Welcome.  I'm Lando Calrissian. I'm the administrator of this facility.  And who might you be? 
LEIA Leia. 
LANDO Welcome, Leia. 
Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand. 
HAN All right, all right, you old smoothie. 
Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando. 
THREEPIO Hello, sir.  I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations.  My facilities are at your... 
Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city. 
THREEPIO Well, really! 
Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge, followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia. 
LANDO What's wrong with the Falcon? 
HAN Hyperdrive. 
LANDO I'll get my people to work on it. 
HAN Good. 
Lando turns to Leia. 
LANDO You know, that ship saved my life quite a few times.  She's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR 
The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the city.  They walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding several corners and passing many small plazas as they go.  Threepio lags a bit behind. 
HAN How's the gas mine?  Is it paying off for you? 
LANDO Oh, not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very self-sufficient.  And I've had supply problems of every kind. I've had labor difficulties... (catches Han grinning at him) What's so funny? 
HAN You.  Listen to you - you sound like a businessman, a responsible leader.  Who'd have thought that, huh? 
Lando is reflective.  He looks at Han a moment. 
LANDO You know, seeing you sure brings back a few things. 
HAN Yeah. 
LANDO (shakes his head) Yeah.  I'm responsible these days. It's the price you pay for being successful. 
Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the corridor. 
The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming out of a door. 
THREEPIO Oh!  Nice to see a familiar face. 
YODA (looks up) No.  There is another. 
EXT. SPACE - PLANET DAGOBAH 
Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of Dagobah and off into space. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY 
Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces in agitation.  She has changed from her cold-weather pants and jacket to a lovely dress.  Her hair is down, tied back with ribbons.  She moves from a large, open window and turns to see Han entering through the doorway. 
HAN The ship is almost finished. Two or Three more things and we're in great shape. 
LEIA The sooner the better.  Something's wrong here.  No one has seen or knows anything about Threepio. He's been gone too long to have gotten lost. 
Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead. 
HAN Relax.  I'll talk to Lando and see what I can find out. 
LEIA I don't trust Lando. 
HAN Well, I don't trust him, either. But he is my friend.  Besides, we'll soon be gone. 
LEIA And then you're as good as gone, aren't you? 
Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - JUNK ROOM 
The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine parts.  Four Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the junk and throw some pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves briskly toward a pit of molten metal.  Pieces of Threepio's golden body move down the belt.  Chewie enters the room and spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting Threepio's head.  The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught, then reaches to grab the head.  But the Ugnaught tosses it away from him to another Ugnaught.  This game of keep-away goes on until Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang onto the ground. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY 
The door zaps open.  Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing case of Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge. 
LEIA What happened? 
Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation. 
HAN Where?  Found him in a junk pile? 
LEIA Oh, what a mess.  Chewie, do you think you can repair him? 
The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts.  He looks at the princess and shrugs sadly. 
HAN Lando's got people who can fix him. 
LEIA No, thanks. 
There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando. 
LANDO I'm sorry.  Am I interrupting anything? 
LEIA Not really. 
LANDO You look absolutely beautiful. You truly belong here with us among the clouds. 
LEIA (coolly) Thank you. 
LANDO Will you join me for a little refreshment? 
Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of food and licks his lips. 
LANDO Everyone's invited, of course. 
Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go.  Lando spots Threepio's remains. 
LANDO Having trouble with you droid? 
Han and Leia exchange a quick glance. 
HAN No.  No problem.  Why? 
Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and Chewie.  The door slides closed behind them. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY 
Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short distance behind.  Long shafts of light pour across the corridor between tall, pure-white columns. 
LANDO So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into the... uh... jurisdiction of the Empire. 
LEIA So you're part of the mining guild then? 
LANDO No, not actually.  Our operation is small enough not to be noticed... which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves. 
The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at the far end. 
HAN Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this little operation and shut you down? 
The cell door slides open.  Lando and two of his guards enter. 
LEIA Lando. 
HAN Get out of here, Lando! 
LANDO Shut up and listen!  Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me. 
HAN Over to you? 
LANDO They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe. 
LEIA What about Han? 
LANDO Vader's giving him to the bounty hunter. 
LEIA Vader wants us all dead. 
LANDO He doesn't want you at all.  He's after somebody called Skywalker. 
HAN Luke? 
LANDO Lord Vader has set a trap for him. 
Leia's mind is racing. 
LEIA And we're the bait. 
LANDO Well, he's on his way. 
Han's rage peaks. 
HAN Perfect.  You fixed us all pretty good, didn't you? (spits it out) My friend! 
Han hauls off and punches Lando.  The two friends are instantly engaged in a frantic close-quarters fight.  The guards hit Han with their rifle butts and he flies across the room.  Chewie growls and starts for the guards.  They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando stops them. 
LANDO Stop!  I've done all I can.  I'm sorry I couldn't do better, but I have my own problems. 
HAN Yeah, you're a real hero. 
Lando and the guards leave.  Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia and Chewie help him up. 
LEIA (dabs at his wound) You certainly have a way with people. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER 
Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks.  In the middle of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform.  Darth Vader and Lando stand near the platform. 
VADER This facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze Skywalker for his journey to the Emperor. 
An Imperial soldier appears. 
IMPERIAL SOLDIER Lord Vader, ship approaching. X-wing class. 
VADER Good.  Monitor Skywalker and allow him to land. 
The soldier bows and leaves the chamber. 
LANDO Lord Vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing.  If you put him in there, it might kill him. 
VADER I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged.  We will test it... on Captain Solo. 
Lando's face registers dismay. 
EXT. SPACE - BESPIN SYSTEM -  LUKE'S X-WING 
Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the city. 
INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT 
Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel with concern. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER 
There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform.  Six Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use.  A special coffinlike container is put in place.  With Boba Fett in the lead, a squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia and Chewie.  Strapped to Chewie's back, with only his head, torso, and one arm assembled, is Threepio.  Threepio's head faces the opposite direction from Chewie's and the droid is constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see what is happening.  His one attached arm is animate and expressive, intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes.  The remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the Wookiee's back so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd angles from the pack. 
THREEPIO If only you had attached my legs, I wouldn't be in this ridiculous position.  Now, remember, Chewbacca, you have a responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish. 
HAN (to Lando) What's going on... buddy? 
LANDO You're being put into carbon freeze. 
Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader. 
BOBA FETT What if he doesn't survive?  He's worth a lot to me. 
VADER The Empire will compensate you if he dies.  Put him in! 
Luke ignites his sword in answer.  In an instant, Vader's own sword is lit.  Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow.  Again Luke attacks, and the swords of the two combatants clash in battle. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR 
Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march along, guarded by six stormtroopers.  The group reaches an intersection where Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand at attention. 
The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled stormtroopers. Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them, Lobot hands one to Leia and one to Lando. 
LANDO Well done.  Hold them in the security tower - and keep it quiet.  Move. 
As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to undo Chewie's binding. 
LEIA What do you think you're doing? 
LANDO We're getting out of here. 
THREEPIO I knew all along it had to be a mistake. 
Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him. 
LEIA Do you think that after what you did to Han we're going to trust you? 
Lando tries to free himself from Chewie. 
LANDO (choking) I had no choice... 
Chewie barks ferociously. 
THREEPIO (to Chewie) What are you doing?  Trust him, trust him! 
LEIA Oh, so we understand, don't we, Chewie?  He had no choice. 
LANDO I'm just trying to help... 
LEIA We don't need any of your help. 
LANDO (choking) H-a-a-a... 
LEIA What? 
THREEPIO It sounds like Han. 
LANDO There's still a chance to save Han... I mean, at the East Platform... 
LEIA Chewie. 
Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back. 
THREEPIO (to Lando) I'm terribly sorry about all this. After all, he's only a Wookiee. 
EXT. CLOUD CITY - EAST LANDING PLATFORM - BOBA FETT'S SHIP 
The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in the side of the bounty hunter's ship.  Boba Fett climb aboard on a ladder next to the cargo hold. 
BOBA FETT Put Captain Solo in the cargo hold. 
And with that, the door slams shut. 
INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR 
Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when suddenly they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping wildly. 
THREEPIO Artoo!  Artoo!  Where have you been? 
Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be spun out of sight of his friend. 
THREEPIO Turn around, you wooly...! (to Artoo) Hurry, hurry!  We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter! 
Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing group. 
THREEPIO Well, at least your still in one piece!  Look what happened to me! 
EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY 
An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform. 
Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset sky. 
In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship. 
THREEPIO Oh, no!  Chewie, they're behind you! 
A laser bolt explodes near the princess.  Everyone turns to see what Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad of stormtroopers running toward them.  Artoo peeks out from the elevator. 
Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break for the elevator.  Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge.  Lando sticks his head out of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely notice.  They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons. 
But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser fire toward the elevator.  Once they are inside, the door slams shut and the stormtroopers race forward. 
They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers reaches the main door.  Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the droids get on board with Chewie.  As Chewie bounds to the ship the Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp. 
THREEPIO Ouch!  Oh!  Ah!  That hurt.  Bend down, you thoughtless... Ow! 
Chewie starts up the ship.  The giant engines begin to whine as Lando and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire. 
LANDO Leia!  Go! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR 
Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the corridor of the Falcon. 
THREEPIO I thought that hairy beast would be the end of me.  Of course, I've looked better. 
Artoo beeps understandingly. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and Lando watches over their shoulders.  As Chewie pulls back on the throttle, the ship begins to move. 
EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - DUSK 
The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight sky and roars away from the city.  Troops fire after it and TIE fighters take off in pursuit. 
INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT 
Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room. 
Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword to meet Vader's.  Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually forcing Luke backward toward the gantry. 
VADER You are beaten.  It is useless to resist.  Don't let yourself be destroyed as Obi-Wan did. 
Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder.  The black armor sparks and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers. 
Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword.  Luke makes a quick move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry. Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward. 
Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away.  At that instant, Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his hand and sending his sword flying.  In great pain, Luke squeezes his forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its extreme end.  Vader follows.  The wind subsides.  Luke holds on.  There is nowhere else to go. 
VADER There is no escape.  Don't make me destroy you.  You do not yet realize your importance.  You have only begun to discover your power.  Join me and I will complete your training.  With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy. 
LUKE I'll never join you! 
VADER If you only knew the power of the dark side.  Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father. 
LUKE He told me enough!  It was you who killed him. 
VADER No.  I am your father. 
Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief. 
LUKE No.  No.  That's not true! That's impossible! 
VADER Search your feelings.  You know it to be true. 
LUKE No!  No!  No! 
VADER Luke.  You can destroy the Emperor. He has foreseen this.  It is your destiny.  Join me, and together we can rule the galaxy as father and son.  Come with me.  It is the only way. 
Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke. 
A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision.  In the next instant he steps off the gantry platform into space.  The Dark Lord looks over the platform and sees Luke falling far below.  The wind begins to blow at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the edge.  The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, unable to grab onto anything to break his fall. 
INT. REACTOR SHAFT 
Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of the shaft. When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the platform. 
INT. EXHAUST PIPE 
Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe. 
He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops as his feet hit a circular grill and knock it open.  Luke claws at the surface of the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out into space. 
EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE - DUSK 
Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at the undermost part of Cloud City.  Reaching out desperately, he manages to grab onto on electronic weather vane. 
LUKE Ben... Ben, please! 
Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down. He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments.  All the while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust pipe. 
LUKE Ben.  Leia! 
There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below. 
LUKE Hear me!  Leia! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
LUKE Oh, Leia. 
LANDO All right, Chewie.  Let's go. 
Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship. 
EXT. SPACE - CLOUD CITY - DAY 
The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races away from the cloud-covered city. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS 
Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a protective cuff. Leia gently wipes his face.  The ship lurches again. 
LEIA I'll be back. 
She kisses him, then leaves the quarters. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound.  Lando anxiously watches the flashing lights on the control panel and hurriedly adjusts some switches.  Seated next to him, Chewie points out a new blip appearing on the panel.  Leia, watching over their shoulders, recognizes the shape. 
LEIA Star Destroyer. 
LANDO All right, Chewie.  Ready for light-speed. 
LEIA If your people fixed the hyperdrive. 
Another explosion rocks the ship.  Leia notices as a green light on the panel next to her flashes on. 
LEIA All the coordinates are set. It's now or never. 
Chewie barks in agreement. 
LANDO Punch it! 
The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle.  The sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding up.  Faces are tense, expectant.  But nothing happens, and the engine goes off.  Chewie lets out a frustrated howl.  The flak still violently rocks the ship. 
LANDO They told me they fixed it.  I trusted them to fix it.  It's not my fault! 
Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit.  He gives Lando and angry shove as he storms past him. 
EXT. SPACE 
In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase, still shooting lasers.  Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind them, determinedly following the Falcon. 
INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE 
Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as Admiral Piett approaches him. 
PIETT They'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, my lord. 
VADER Did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon? 
PIETT Yes, my lord. 
VADER Good.  Prepare the boarding party and set your weapons for stun. 
PIETT Yes, my lord. 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON 
Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires to Threepio who now has one leg attached. 
Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself. 
THREEPIO Noisy brute.  Why don't we just go into light-speed? 
Artoo beeps in response. 
THREEPIO We can't?  How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated? 
Artoo whistles knowingly. 
THREEPIO The city's central computer told you?  Artoo-Detoo, you know better than to trust a strange computer. Ouch!  Pay attention to what you're doing! 
Chewie is in the pit.  He is trying to loosen something with an enormous wrench.  Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits the panel... 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are suddenly sprayed by a shower of sparks. 
INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE 
Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium Falcon is chased by the TIE fighters.  As his Destroyer draws nearer, Vader's breathing gets slightly faster. 
VADER Luke. 
