RETURN OF THE JEDI 
by Lawrence Kasdan George Lucas 
From The Novel by George Lucas 
Third Draft 
Property of Lucasfilm Ltd. 
Completion Date December 1, 1981 
1    SPACE 
The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity. 
Episode VI RETURN OF THE JEDI 
Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of theÊvile gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy... 
PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, green moon of ENDOR. 
An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the Death Star. 
2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star. 
SHUTTLE CAPTAIN Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting our approach. Deactivate the security shield. 
DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO) The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to proceed. 
SHUTTLE CAPTAIN We're starting our approach. 
3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM 
Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible deflector shield. 
A control officer rushes over to the shield operator. 
OFFICER Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived. 
OPERATOR Yes, sir. 
The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft. 
4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY 
The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall. 
The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the assemblage as he walks down the ramp. 
JERJERROD Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your presence. 
VADER You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule. 
The commander turns ashen and begins to shake. 
JERJERROD I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can. 
VADER Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them. 
JERJERROD I tell you, this station will be operational as planned. 
VADER The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation. 
JERJERROD But he asks the impossible. I need more men. 
VADER Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives. 
Bib shakes his head negatively. 
BIB Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie. 
Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the strange-looking alien. 
THREEPIO He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself. 
Bib thinks about this for a moment. 
THREEPIO I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort of things. 
Bib gestures for the droids to follow. 
BIB Nudd Chaa. 
The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed by the two guards. 
THREEPIO Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this. 
8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM 
The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows politely. 
THREEPIO Good morning. 
JABBA Bo Shuda! 
The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned villain. 
THREEPIO The message, Artoo, the message. 
Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters. 
LUKE Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's life. (Jabba's crowd laughs) With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: these two droids. 
Threepio is startled by this announcement. 
THREEPIO What did he say? 
LUKE	 (cont) ... Both are hardworking and will serve you well. 
THREEPIO This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message. 
Luke's hologram disappears. 
Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) There will be no bargain. 
THREEPIO We're doomed. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he is. 
Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a carbonized HAN SOLO. 
THREEPIO Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite. 
9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 
One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps pitifully. 
THREEPIO What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh! 
A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor. 
10   INT BOILER ROOM 
Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself. 
THREEPIO Uh, oh... but what, what did I say? (to Boushh) Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand. 
The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient. 
THREEPIO Because he's holding a thermal detonator. 
The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across his vast mouth and he begins to laugh. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive. 
Jabba continues. 
THREEPIO Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it. 
Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes dead. 
BOUSHH Zeebuss. 
THREEPIO He agrees! 
The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly appreciative creatures. 
Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance. 
12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL 
Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the iron door. 
13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE 
The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert rodent and burps in satisfaction. 
14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT 
Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly. 
A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters. 
Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove. 
Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead. 
Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn. 
BOUSHH Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite. 
Han touches his face with his hand and moans. 
BOUSHH Shhh. You have hibernation sickness. 
HAN I can't see. 
BOUSHH Your eyesight will return in time. 
HAN Where am I? 
BOUSHH Jabba's palace. 
HAN Who are you? 
The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA. 
LEIA Someone who loves you. 
HAN Leia! 
Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and moves on down the hallway. 
Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness. 
LUKE I must speak with Jabba. 
Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly. 
LUKE You will take me to Jabba now! 
Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him into the gloom. 
LUKE You serve your master well. 
Bib responds. 
LUKE And you will be rewarded. 
17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM 
Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug. 
THREEPIO At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me. 
BIB Master. 
Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese. 
BIB ...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) I told you not to admit him. 
LUKE I must be allowed to speak. 
BIB	 (in Huttese subtitled) He must be allowed to speak. 
Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick. 
Luke stares hard at Jabba. 
LUKE You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) Your mind powers will not work on me, boy. 
LUKE Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not to underestimate my powers. 
Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about the pit. 
THREEPIO Master Luke, you're standing on... 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die. 
Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his hand. 
JABBA Bascka! 
The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at him and he shakes his head "no." 
18   INT RANCOR PIT 
Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape. 
THREEPIO Oh, no! The Rancor! 
At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him. 
23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF 
Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is Lando in disguise. 
HAN I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a big light blur. 
LUKE There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know. 
HAN You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient. 
LUKE Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything. 
HAN Oh... great! 
24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK 
Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to him. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) Soon you will learn to appreciate me. 
Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles. 
THREEPIO Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here? 
Artoo beeps a quick reply. 
THREEPIO Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too! 
Artoo whistles a singsong response. 
THREEPIO Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence. 
25   EXT SARLACC PIT 
The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth. 
26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK 
Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across loudspeakers. 
THREEPIO Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba the Hutt will now listen to your pleas. 
27   EXT SKIFF 
Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak. 
HAN Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasure from us. Right? 
Chewie growls his agreement. 
LUKE Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die. 
Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look of conspiracy to him. 
28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK 
The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as he speaks into the comlink. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) Move him into position. 
Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried. 
29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK 
Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap opens in Artoo's domed head. 
JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled) Put him in. 
Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously from a rope on the prisoner's skiff. 
HAN Lando, grab it! 
LANDO Lower it! 
HAN I'm trying! 
A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently. 
HAN Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping. 
Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the pit. 
HAN Grab it! L--Lando. Grab! 
Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit. 
The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand moves him closer to his final reward. 
HAN Grab it! Almost... You almost got it! 
Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let go of the spear. 
LANDO Hold it! Whoa! 
Again Han extends the spear toward Lando. 
HAN Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie. 
Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit. 
HAN Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando. 
LANDO No, wait! I thought you were blind! 
HAN It's all right. Trust me. Don't move. 
LANDO All right! A little higher! Just a little higher! 
Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff. 
HAN Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up! 
38   EXT UPPER DECK 
The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) racing for him, firing their laser pistols. 
39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK 
Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart. 
LEIA Come on. We gotta get out of here quick. 
Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out one of the golden droid's eyes. 
THREEPIO Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast! 
Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye dangling from a wire) hurry off. 
40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE 
Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke turns to face another guard. 
LUKE	 (to Leia) Get the gun! Point it at the deck! 
Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels the gun around. 
LEIA He means "You're welcome." 
LANDO Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball. 
44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 
The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA. 
45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT 
Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM FALCON. 
LUKE I'll meet you back at the fleet. 
LEIA	 (over comlink) Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now. 
LUKE I will. 
HAN	 (over comlink) Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one. 
A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand. 
LUKE That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a promise to keep... to an old friend. 
46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR 
A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward the Death Star. 
47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY 
Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous Death Star commander. 
48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR 
Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where the shuttle is coming to rest. 
The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention with a momentous SNAP. 
Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord. 
EMPEROR	 (to Vader) Rise, my friend. 
Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the procession. 
VADER The Death Star will be completed on schedule. 
EMPEROR You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue your search for young Skywalker. 
VADER Yes, my Master. 
EMPEROR Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the Force. 
VADER As you wish. 
EMPEROR Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen. 
He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial troops. 
49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH 
Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom. 
50   INT YODA'S HOUSE 
The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker. 
YODA Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes? 
Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly. 
LUKE I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone. 
BEN	 (OS) Yoda will always be with you. 
Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI. 
LUKE Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me? 
The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp. 
LUKE You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father. 
BEN You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a certain point of view. 
LUKE	 (turning away, derisive) A certain point of view! 
BEN Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view. 
Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment. 
BEN I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to your father was my fault. 
Ben pauses sadly. 
BEN Anakin was a good friend. 
Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence. 
BEN When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the galaxy. 
Luke is entranced. 
LUKE There's still good in him. 
BEN I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil. 
LUKE I can't do it, Ben. 
BEN You cannot escape your destiny. 
LUKE I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it. 
BEN Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been prepared. 
LUKE But I had to help my friends. 
BEN	 (grinning at Luke's indignation) And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear. 
LUKE	 (with sadness) I found out Darth Vader was my father. 
BEN To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side - the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, you must face Darth Vader again! 
LUKE I can't kill my own father. 
BEN Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope. 
LUKE Yoda spoke of another. 
BEN The other he spoke of is your twin sister. 
LUKE But I have no sister. 
BEN Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous. 
LUKE Leia! Leia's my sister. 
Madine moves center stage. 
GENERAL MADINE We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and using a secret Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the shield generator. 
The assembly begins to mumble among themselves. 
THREEPIO Sounds dangerous. 
LEIA	 (to Han) I wonder who they found to pull that off. 
GENERAL MADINE General Solo, is your strike team assembled? 
Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration. 
HAN Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle. 
Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him. 
HAN Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you. 
Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL. 
HAN	 (smiles) That's one. 
LEIA Uh, General... count me in. 
VOICE	 (OS) I'm with you, too! 
They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and Leia are surprised and delighted. 
Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him and looks into his eyes questioningly. 
LEIA What is it? 
LUKE	 (hesitant) Ask me again sometime. 
Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up. 
HAN Luke. 
LUKE Hi, Han... Chewie. 
Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio. 
THREEPIO "Exciting" is hardly the word I would use. 
54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY 
The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good- byes and start up the ramp. 
HAN Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the help you can get. She's the fastest ship in the fleet. 
LANDO All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take good care of her. She-she won't get a scratch. All right? 
HAN	 (looks at him warmly) Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch. 
LANDO Look, would you get going, you pirate. 
Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes. 
LANDO Good luck. 
HAN You, too. 
Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away. 
55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
HAN Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield. 
CONTROLLER	 (over radio) Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage. 
HAN Transmission commencing. 
Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed transmission begins. 
LEIA Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid. 
HAN It'll work. It'll work. 
Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer that looms ever larger before them. 
LUKE Vader's on that ship. 
HAN Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance. 
Chewie barks a question. 
HAN I don't know.  Fly casual. 
LUKE I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come. 
HAN It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here. 
Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out the window. 
60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE 
Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach. 
VADER Where is that shuttle going? 
PIETT	 (into comlink) Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination? 
PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered) Parts and technical crew for the forest moon. 
The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction. 
VADER Do they have a code clearance? 
PIETT It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them. 
Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence. 
PIETT Shall I hold them? 
VADER No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself. 
PIETT	 (surprised) As you wish, my lord. (to controller) Carry on. 
Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink. 
61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The group waits tensely. 
HAN They're not goin' for it, Chewie. 
CONTROLLER	 (filtered) Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. Follow your present course. 
Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks worried. Chewie barks. 
HAN Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem. 
62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR 
EMPEROR	 (very cool) Are you sure? 
VADER I have felt him, my Master. 
EMPEROR Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are clear, Lord Vader. 
Vader knows what is being asked. 
VADER They are clear, my Master. 
EMPEROR Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them. 
VADER	 (skeptical) He will come to me? 
EMPEROR I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will come to you and then you will bring him before me. 
VADER	 (bows) As you wish. 
The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room. 
70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE 
Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern. 
HAN	 (OS) Luke! Luke! 
Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage of a speeder bike in the grass. 
THREEPIO Oh, Master Luke. 
LUKE There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this. 
He tosses the helmet to Han. 
THREEPIO I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia. 
HAN	 (gravely) I hope she's alright. 
Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off through the foliage. 
HAN What, Chewie? What? Chewie! 
The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, Artoo whistles nervously. 
71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE 
The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from it. 
HAN Hey, I don't get it. 
The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake. 
HAN	 (cont) Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie. 
Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat. 
LUKE Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't! 
Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth. 
HAN Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach. 
LUKE Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this thing. (trying to free an arm) Han, can you reach my lightsaber? 
HAN Yeah, sure. 
Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to spin. 
Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber with great curiosity. 
Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit under Han with firewood. 
HAN What did he say? 
THREEPIO I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor. 
The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening at the same moment the prisoners see her. 
HAN and LUKE Leia! 
As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears. 
LEIA Oh! 
THREEPIO Your Royal Highness. 
Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the assembled Ewoks and sighs. 
LEIA But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free. 
Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han . 
HAN Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much. 
LUKE Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic. 
THREEPIO But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly -- 
LUKE Just tell them. 
Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to concentrate. 
THREEPIO You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just... 
Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking. 
THREEPIO ... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! Oh! 
The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio calling out in total panic at his situation. 
THREEPIO Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh! 
Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and marveling at his height. 
THREEPIO Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness. 
LUKE Thanks, Threepio. 
THREEPIO	 (still shaken) I...I never knew I had it in me. 
75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS 
A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side. 
Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi- Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio. 
THREEPIO Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that. 
Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time. 
At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement. 
The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer and screeches. 
HAN What's going on? 
Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it. 
LEIA Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and could never have. 
LUKE You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has it...I have it...and...my sister has it. 
Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she doesn't draw away. She begins to understand. 
LUKE Yes. It's you Leia. 
LEIA I know. Somehow...I've always known. 
LUKE Then you know why I have to face him. 
LEIA No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave this place. I wish I could go with you. 
LUKE No, you don't. You've always been strong. 
LEIA But, why must you confront him? 
LUKE Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try. 
They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister. 
Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she is crying. 
HAN Hey, what's goin' on? 
Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes. 
LEIA Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while. 
HAN	 (angry) Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on? 
She looks up at him, struggling to control herself. 
LEIA I...I can't tell you. 
HAN	 (loses his temper) Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell? 
LEIA I... 
HAN Ahhh... 
He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her. 
HAN I'm sorry. 
LEIA Hold me. 
Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace. 
77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM 
An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands gracefully on the huge platform. 
Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty. 
78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK 
Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with complete calm. 
COMMANDER This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct a further search of the area. 
The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber. 
COMMANDER He was armed only with this. 
81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando speaks into his comlink. 
LANDO Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for. 
ACKBAR 	(VO) Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates. 
Lando turns to his weird copilot. 
LANDO Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down on time... (to himself) or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time. 
The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment. 
ACKBAR	 (VO) All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark. 
LANDO All right. Stand by. 
He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak. 
82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET 
We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears. 
83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER 
Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language. 
HAN Back door, huh? Good idea. 
Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation. 
HAN	 (cont) It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble. 
LEIA Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm. 
HAN	 (with self-confident grin) Then we'll do it real quiet-like. 
Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers into the underbrush. 
Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply. 
THREEPIO Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia! 
LEIA Quiet. 
THREEPIO I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash. 
LEIA Oh, no. 
84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE 
Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in surprise. 
85   EXT RIDGE 
Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks. 
HAN 	(sighs) There goes our surprise attack. 
86   EXT BUNKER 
The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest. 
SCOUT Look! Over there! Stop him! 
Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door. 
EMPEROR	 (angry) Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. (indicates Endor) Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon... 
Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it. 
EMPEROR	 (cont) ...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them. 
Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword in the Emperor's hand. 
EMPEROR Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when your friends arrive. 
91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM 
Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner. 
HAN All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie. 
The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel. 
LEIA Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment. 
HAN Charges!  Come on, come on! 
Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at the door. 
THREEPIO	 (to Wicket) Oh, my! They'll be captured! 
Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into the forest. 
THREEPIO Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me. 
Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial commander enters. 
COMMANDER Freeze! You Rebel scum. 
Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless. 
92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET 
The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the space armada bears down on its target. 
93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio. 
LANDO All wings report in. 
WEDGE Red Leader standing by. 
GRAY LEADER Gray Leader standing by. 
GREEN LEADER Green Leader standing by. 
WEDGE Lock S-foils in attack positions. 
94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE 
From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen. 
ACKBAR May the Force be with us. 
95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT 
Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to the control panel and talks to Lando. 
LANDO We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up or down. Well, how could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming. 
Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his comlink. 
THREEPIO Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me? 
BUNKER COMMANDER Bring those two down here! 
STORMTROOPER Let's go! 
Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree. 
THREEPIO Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea? 
STORMTROOPER Freeze! Don't move! 
THREEPIO We surrender. 
The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them. 
THREEPIO Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo. 
In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the trees above. 
In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes to the bunker door control panel. 
LEIA The code's changed. We need Artoo! 
HAN Here's the terminal. 
LEIA	 (into comlink) Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away. 
Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, runs after him. 
THREEPIO Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back! 
Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover. 
A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat. 
A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged behind. 
Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between two trees. 
100  EXT SPACE 
The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the Rebel armada. 
101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel squads. 
LANDO Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above! 
WEDGE Red Three, Red Two, pull in! 
RED TWO Got it! 
RED THREE Three of them coming in, twenty degrees! 
WEDGE Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical frigate. 
Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns. 
NAVIGATOR Pressure's steady. 
The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation. 
LANDO Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers are waiting for. 
102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET 
The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of the fleet. 
127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE 
ACKBAR We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on that Super Star Destroyer. 
X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship. 
128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE 
Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the battle. They look concerned. 
CONTROLLER Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield. 
PIETT Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through. 
The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge. 
PIETT Intensify forward firepower! 
COMMANDER It's too late! 
The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the Death Star, and explodes. 
129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE 
There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up. 
130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY 
Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and desperate to escape. 
In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as Vader draws him closer. 
VADER	 (a whisper) Luke, help me take this mask off. 
LURE But you'll die. 
VADER Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my own eyes. 
Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the dying man smiles at the sight before him. 
ANAKIN	 (very weak) Now...go, my son. Leave me. 
LUKE No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save you. 
ANAKIN You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you were right. 
LUKE Father...I won't leave you. 
Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies. 
A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a shuttle. 
131  EXT DEATH STAR 
The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station itself. 
132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS 
Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon. 
WEDGE There it is! 
LANDO All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower. 
WEDGE Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out. 
The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small explosions. 
