STAR TREK: NEMESIS 
STAR TREK: NEMESIS 
by 
John Logan 
FADE IN: 
INT.  MEDICAL MONTAGE - DAY 
Life.  Glorious in its many forms.  The biological pulse finding its way heroically through the cold manipulation of science. 
CREDITS as we see a beautiful montage of futuristic medical technology.  Through a microscope we see cells multiplying and gene strands exponentially increasing with the vibrancy of exploding flowers.  We see laser splicing and biological manipulation on the molecular level. 
CREDITS continue as we fade to... 
INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Politics... In a cavernous, shadowy chamber.  Dark figures lean together and talk seriously.  Their hushed, urgent tones denote the gravity of their discussion. 
We can't make out the words but there is no doubt what they are talking about. 
The three year old HUMAN BOY who stands before them.  The boy is alone and frightened, lost in the sweeping grandeur of the massive chamber. 
CREDITS continue as we fade to... 
EXT.  REMAN HOMEWORLD - NIGHT 
Labor... 
On a stark, desert planet with monolithic mountains and harsh crags shooting upward.  The only light in this dark netherworld comes from the flames that accompany the hellish mining operations everywhere around us. 
The human boy gazes over this desolate vista and then he looks up for a moment... at the stars. 
Then a tall figure leads him firmly into one of the mines. The boy seems to disappear into this flaming crucible. CREDITS end as we go to... 
EXT.  ROMULUS - SUNSET 
The sun is setting on the capital city of the great Romulan Star Empire, The imperial monoliths and martial towers of this bustling city glow red as the sun dips below the horizon. 
We slowly move down toward the most imposing building of the city.  The Romulan Senate chamber. 
INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - SUNSET 
SENATOR TAL'AURA watches the proceedings with a studied look of bored indifference.  She glances to the familiar Romulan crest that dominates one wall of the chamber: a ferocious bird-of-prey holding two planets, one in either claw. 
And then her eyes carefully cross the chamber to... 
PRAETOR HIREN -- the head of the Romulan government -- presiding over the Senate from a throne-like chair.  He is a capable politician in his 50s. 
SENATOR 1 ... but if we hesitate we'll lose this important source of dilithium. A trade agreement is in the best interests of the Empire. 
SENATOR 2 Praetor, I recommend we dispatch a diplomatic mission to Celes II to open negotiations. 
Senator Tal'Aura grunts slightly at the word "negotiations." Praetor Hiren glances to her. 
PRAETOR Senator Tal'Aura, you disagree with the motion. 
TAL'AURA No, sir.  I would say "negotiation" is to be advised.  I support all "diplomatic" overtures.  But if you will excuse me, Praetor, I have an appointment with the Tholian ambassador. 
The Praetor nods.  Tal'Aura stands and leaves the chamber... but she had left something behind on her desk.  A small, silver box with unusual etchings on the surface. 
The discussion continues as we focus on the silver box... 
PRAETOR Then I will call for a vote on the motion to open trade negotiations with Celes II... 
The Senator at the desk next to Tal'Aura's glances over.  The silver box is moving. 
The Senator watches, amazed, as the box begins to slowly fold open.  Then "legs" appear.  The box unfolds like a spider, standing on its legs.  Then it is still for a moment.  The Senator looks at it, puzzled. 
Suddenly -- a bright beam of green light shoots up from the spider -- the Senators are stunned -- the beam shoots to the high domed ceiling of the chamber and then cascades around the interior of the room, enveloping everything in a glowing shroud of green energy.  In a way, it is bizarrely beautiful. 
And then just as suddenly the light disappears. 
A moment of silence.  The Praetor and Senators are baffled. 
PRAETOR Would someone please tell me what that was? (he turns to a guard) Alert security -- 
A plant behind the Praetor begins to shrivel... 
PRAETOR -- and have them run a -- 
PICARD The hell you will.  You know too much about me as it is... Now you promised there are no speeches during the ceremony on Betazed. 
RIKER No, no speeches.  No clothes either. (winks, mischievously) 
Picard looks at him.  Deanna laughs. 
Then the band stops playing.  All turn. 
DATA stands with the band. 
DATA Ladies and Gentlemen and invited Tran gendered species... In my study of Terran and Betazoid conjugal rites I have discovered it is traditional to present the "happy couple" with a gift.  Given Commander Riker's affection for archaic musical forms I have elected to present the following as my gift in honor of their conjugation. 
Riker shoots an amused glance to Deanna.  Conjugation? 
Data turns to the band leader. 
DATA If you please, Mister Band Leader, a-one and a-two and... 
The band launches into a jaunty, swing version of the Irving Berlin standard "Blue Skies." 
DATA (sings) "Blue skies, smiling at me, Nothing but blue skies do I see.  Blue birds, singing a song, Nothing but blue birds all day long.  Never saw the sun shining so bright, Never saw things going so right..." 
The crowd is appreciative.  Loves the song.  Except Worf, he momentarily raises his head from the table. 
WORF (groans) Ugghhh... Irving Berlin. 
His heads thumps down again, is about ready to BARF! Meanwhile, Riker is anxious as a kid to join the band: 
DEANNA (smiles) All right, go ahead. 
Riker eagerly joins the band.  Grabs the trombone and starts jamming with the orchestra.  The song really swings. 
PICARD (to Deanna) May I have this dance? 
DEANNA With pleasure, Captain. 
Meanwhile, Geordi leads Leah to the dance floor as well. Beverly goes to Worf. 
BEVERLY Commander Worf... Do Klingons swing? 
WORF I am not a swinger.  I am unwell. 
BEVERLY Don't worry, I'm a doctor. 
She pulls him to the dance floor as: 
BEVERLY I'm so glad you made it back to the Enterprise before I left. 
WORF I was not suited for the life of a... diplomat. 
BEVERLY (wry) Who'd have guessed? 
They dance.  Picard and Deanna sweep past them. 
And we pull up and away as Data continues to sing and the crew dances.  It is a joyous celebration of these people. 
This family.  A family we love. 
EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE 
The Enterprise streaks through space. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT 
Data sits in the empty Crew Lounge. 
As always, the android's placid, neutral expression still somehow manages to convey his wonder, curiosity and idiosyncratic zest for life. 
Picard arrives with a very old bottle of wine. 
PICARD I've been saving this.  Chateau Picard 2267.  Batten down the hatches... 
He carefully uncorks the treasured bottle as: 
PICARD They say a vintner's history is in every glass.  The soil he came from.  His past as well as his hopes for the future. 
He pours two glasses of the wine, then raises his glass, a toast. 
PICARD So... To happy endings. 
DATA To happy endings. 
Picard carefully takes a tiny sip, savors the flavor, finally swallows.  Enjoys it.  Ahhh. 
SHINZON Join us, Commanders.  Now what's the disposition of the fleet? 
SURAN They're holding position. 
SHINZON And? 
SURAN (bows his head) They will obey, Praetor. 
SHINZON It's imperative we retain their allegiance or our great mission will be strangled before it can truly draw breath. 
DONATRA They support your intentions, sir. But they require evidence of your... sincerity. 
Shinzon looks at her.  A quick beat.  Shinzon decides to respond with benevolence.  He smiles. 
SHINZON And they'll have it. (he begins to pace over the star chart) Tell the fleet that the days of negotiation and diplomacy are over. The Almighty Federation will fall before us.  As I promised you. 
He stands on the area of the map that denotes the Neutral Zone between the Romulan Empire and the Federation. 
SHINZON The time we have dreamed of is at hand.  The time... of conquest. (sinister laugh) 
He carefully steps into the area of the map marked with the Federation symbol.  He looks down at the star chart. 
SHINZON Cut off the dragon's head and it cannot strike back. 
A beat.  Donatra watches him carefully.  Something in his quiet words disturbs her. 
SURAN How many Warbirds will you need? 
SHINZON None. 
They look at him, stunned. 
SURAN Praetor.  You have the whole fleet at your disposal.  They supported the coup, they'll follow you. 
SHINZON The Scimitar will serve my needs. 
SURAN But surely -- 
SHINZON I came this far alone... (he looks at his Reman warriors) We came this far alone.  We require no assistance from the fleet.  Now leave me to my thoughts. 
The Commanders and Senator Tal'Aura rise and leave.  Shinzon looks to his Viceroy. 
SHINZON Are we prepared? 
VICEROY Yes, Praetor. 
A beat. 
SHINZON So many years for this moment. (he looks up at his Viceroy, smiles) Bring him to me. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - DAY 
The bridge crew are at their stations.  Picard is not on the bridge. 
WORF (grumbles) I won't do it. 
DEANNA It's tradition,Worf.  You of all people should appreciate that! (whispers) Besides, I've already seen it. 
WORF A warrior does not appear without his clothing.  It leaves him... vulnerable. 
RIKER I don't think we're going to see much combat on Betazed. 
DEANNA Don't be too sure.  Mother will be there. 
Worf groans.  Picard emerges from his Ready Room as: 
WORF I won't do it. 
PICARD Won't do what, Mister Worf? 
WORF Captain.  I think it is inappropriate for a Starfleet officer to appear... (hates the word) ... naked. 
PICARD Come now, a big, strapping fellow like you?  What are you afraid of? 
Deanna laughs.  Then a readout on Worf's console attracts his attention: 
WORF I'm picking up an unusual electromagnetic signature from the Kolarin system. 
PICARD What sort of signature? 
Worf looks up.  Glances at Data. 
WORF Positronic. 
The shuttlebay doors slide open and the transport vehicle Argo emerges. 
The Argo is larger than a regular shuttle with a particularly large cargo area at the back. 
EXT.  KOLARUS III - DAY 
The Argo lands on the planet.  It is primarily a desert environment with some canyons and mountains.  Like Death Valley, blazing heat waves shimmer in the distance.  The shuttle sits silently for a moment.  We wonder at the delay, then... 
The rear cargo doors slide open and Picard, Data and Worf roar out on a 24th Century equivalent of a military jeep! 
Picard drives, Data beside him.  Worf stands in the back at a mounted phaser canon.  It is a muscular, exciting vehicle; a Starfleet version of the jeep from old television series "The Rat Patrol." 
Picard screeches to a stop.  Data and Worf lurch.  A cloud of dust momentarily obscures them.  Data quickly monitors the positronic signatures with a tricorder: 
DATA The closest signature is two kilometers to the west... that direction, sir. 
PICARD Thank you, Data. (he smiles) Let's see what she can do. 
He roars off in a cloud of dust! 
Picard clearly enjoys driving.  He roars over the desert terrain at breakneck speed, having a hell of a good time. His comrades don't exactly appreciate his free-spirited driving panache. 
Worf clings on to the mounted phaser canon for dear life. Data steadies himself by grasping onto the rollbar 
DATA I will always be baffled by the human predilection for piloting vehicles at unsafe velocities. 
Picard smiles and drives a little faster. 
DATA (monitoring with tricorder) Over that rise, sir... half a kilometer. 
They continue on.  Before long they can see something on the level desert floor before them.  They approach and stop to discover... 
An android arm.  The fingers patiently drumming the ground. 
DATA It appears to be... (he scans with his tricorder) ... an arm. 
WORF (suspicious) Why is it moving? 
DATA Like me, it has been designed with modular power sources. 
PICARD Mister Worf, if you please. 
Worf climbs from the jeep and carefully approaches the arm. Gingerly picks it up.  The arm responds to being picked up, the hand starts feeling around in the air like something from a horror movie.  Worf shudders. 
He returns to the jeep.  Quickly sets the arm down in the rear cargo area. 
DATA The next signature is one kilometer to the south. 
Picard starts the jeep in motion. 
Time passes as they continue on... coming across another arm... a leg... a torso... another leg... various disassembled components of a Data-like android! 
EXT.  JEEP - KOLARUS III - CANYON - DAY 
Worf stands uneasily amidst the moving body parts.  There is only one component missing: the head.  Picard steers the jeep into a canyon.  Stops.  Data scans with his tricorder, pointing it up into the gently sloping hills that form the sides of the canyon. 
DATA The final signature is approximately 300 meters up that incline. 
PICARD Mister Worf, accompany Data please. 
WORF (uneasy) To find the head, sir? 
PICARD (amused) If you don't mind. 
Worf and Data climb up into the hills in pursuit of the final piece as Picard opens the jeep's hood and checks the engine. 
EXT.  KOLARUS III - HILLS - DAY 
Worf and Data climb as Data scans and indicates the direction: 
DATA Ten meters... 
Worf pulls his phaser, ready. 
DATA I think it unlikely you will need your phaser to recover the cranial unit.  Of course, it could bite you. 
Then they see it. 
Data's head.  Or the spitting image anyway.  Lying inert in the dust before them. 
WORF It's you. 
DATA The resemblance is... striking. 
DATA Because the captain has to concentrate on piloting the vehicle. 
HEAD Why? 
PICARD Data! 
DATA Sorry, sir. 
They continue to speed over the landscape -- bouncing and flying over natural rises in the terrain -- trying to evade their pursuers -- 
Picard puts the pedal to the metal and races through the alien vehicles -- weaving in and out, avoiding their fire -- Worf blasts away with the phaser cannon -- an exhilarating adventure -- 
Finally they are within sight of the Argo -- but they see it is surrounded by more of the aliens! 
PICARD Mister Data.  Let's make like the wind. 
Data punches some buttons on a dashboard console -- and the Argo LIFTS OFF by remote control -- 
Data uses the console to swing the Argo around and lower the rear cargo doors -- it hovers over the surface -- 
Picard floors the jeep -- using a natural rise in the terrain as a ramp -- the jeep FLIES THROUGH THE AIR -- over the aliens -- and into the cargo bay -- 
INT.  ARGO - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING 
Picard slams on the brakes -- the jeep screeches to a stop as the doors shut and the Argo shoots into the air. 
Picard climbs from the jeep.  He nonchalantly rubs a bit of dirt from the hood and then disappears into the main cabin. 
Data and Worf remain in the jeep for a beat, stunned. 
WORF (smiles) He must have Klingon blood. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING LAB - DAY 
Beverly gazes at the android head.  It gazes back at her. 
BEVERLY I think you have nicer eyes. 
We pull back to reveal she is speaking to Data.  Data stands with Picard, Riker and Geordi. 
DATA Our eyes are identical, Doctor. 
The android is in a framework rig that holds the various body parts in place.  The parts are not yet assembled 
RIKER Geordi? 
GEORDI (at work analyzing the torso section) Well, he seems to have the same internal mechanics as Data but not as much positronic development. The neural pathways aren't nearly as sophisticated.  I'd say he's a prototype.  Something Dr. Soong created before Data. 
DATA (to head) Do you have a name, sir? 
HEAD I am the B-9. 
PICARD Be-nign.  Dr. Soong's penchant for whimsical names seems to have no end. 
HEAD (to Riker) You have a fuzzy face. 
PICARD (trying to ignore the head) Keep me informed, Number One, and, please, put him back together. 
He goes.  Geordi and Data begin to reassemble the B-9 piece by piece like the Tin Man as: 
DATA Can you tell me how you came to be on the planet where we found you? 
B-9 (blandly) I was taken from my homeworld by people called the "PakJeds." They are fat.  They traded me to a ship belonging to the "Bolians." The "Bolians" are blue.  They put me in a seat and asked me questions. Then they were attacked by another ship... 
Time passes... 
And still the B-9 is yammering blandly away.  He is more fully assembled   By this time Beverly is thoroughly bored. 
B-9 Then people called the Delviciansans picked me up.  They have long teeth.  They asked if I do anything to help them.  I told them I could do whatever they wanted.  They asked me to clean out the matrix manifolds.  I told them I did not know what an Matrix manifold looks like. 
BEVERLY Excuse me.  I have some diagnostics to run on some medical scanner things. 
She quickly exits. 
B-9 And after they showed me the "engine manifolds." Then they showed me something called a "plasma mop" 
Time passes... 
And still the B-9 is yammering away.  He is almost completely assembled by now.  Riker is bored out of his mind. 
B-9 ... then the "Cardassians" put me into something called a "garbage chute" and I went out into space again -- 
WORF (V.O.) (ON COMM) Worf to Commander Riker.  I have the tactical manifests ready, sir. 
A quiet beat. 
PICARD I'm going to miss you. 
DEANNA And I you. 
They are interrupted by a comm signal: 
RIKER (V.O.) (ON COMM) Captain, you have an Alpha Priority communication from Starfleet Command. 
PICARD Acknowledged... (Deanna stands) ... I'll talk to Data 
DEANNA Thank you, sir. 
She goes.  Picard activates his desktop viewscreen. 
ADMIRAL KATHRYN JANEWAY appears on Picard's monitor.  Janeway is the former captain of Voyager.  Her new rank fits her well, she has lost none of her dry humor and down-to-earth charm which made her a household name and beloved cult figure. 
PICARD Admiral Janeway.  Good to see you. 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN) Jean Luc... How'd you like a trip to Romulus?  All expenses paid? 
PICARD (smiles) With or without the rest of the fleet? 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN) A diplomatic mission.  We've been invited, believe it or not.  Seems there's been some kind of internal political shakeup.  The new Praetor, someone called Shinzon, has requested a Federation envoy. 
PICARD New Praetor? 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN) There's more... as always.  He's Reman. (Picard is surprised) Believe me, we don't understand it either.  You're the closest ship so I want you to high tail it over there and hear what he has to say. Get the lay of the land, If the Empire becomes unstable, it could mean trouble for the entire quadrant. 
PICARD Understood. 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEEN) We're sending you all the intelligence we have, but it's not much.  I don't need to tell you to watch your back, Jean Luc. 
PICARD Not with the Romulans. 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN) (smiles wryly) The Son'a, the Borg, the Romulans, the evil Soran and that pesky Nexus.  You seem to get all the easy assignments! 
PICARD Just lucky, Admiral. 
JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN) Let's hope that luck holds. Janeway out. 
The transmission ends. 
Picard sits for a moment, intrigued.  Then he goes to the bridge 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Picard goes to his command chair: 
PICARD (to Helm) Lay in a new course... Take us to Romulus.  Warp eight. 
The crew is shocked. 
HELM OFFICER Aye aye, sir.  Course plotted and laid in... 
RIKER Romulus? 
PICARD I'm afraid the Opal Sea will have to wait, Number One... Engage. 
EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE 
And the Enterprise jumps to high warp -- disappearing in a flash of dazzling light.  Yes! 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - DAY 
Data conducts a briefing for the senior officers.  Monitors currently show an image of Romulus and Remus in orbit around their sun. 
DATA As you can see the habitable half of Remus is always in darkness because, like Mercury, one side always faces the sun.  Due to the extreme temperatures on that half of their world, the Remans live on the dark side of the planet. 
Various grainy and unclear new images appear to illustrate Data's words: 
DATA Almost nothing is known about the Reman homeworld, although intelligence scans have proven the existence of dilithium mining and heavy weapons construction. 
Very obscure images of Remans appear, the crew can barely make out the monstrous figures: 
DATA The Remans themselves are considered an undesirable caste in the hierarchy of the Empire. 
RIKER But they also have the reputation of being formidable warriors.  In the Dominion War, Reman forces were used as assault troops in the most violent encounters. 
PICARD (grim) Cannon fodder. 
GEORDI Then how did a Reman get to be Praetor?  I don't get it. 
DATA But I believe he will prove incapable of performing higher functions. 
GEORDI Don't give up hope, Data.  I know, I know, you're not capable of hope. 
DATA (looking at B-9) I am not. 
Data stands.  The B-9 stands to follow. 
DATA No, remain with Commander La Forge. He is going to try to make you well. 
The B-9 sits.  Data goes.  Geordi watches him go. 
EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER ROMULUS - SPACE 
The Enterprise is in orbit around Romulus.  Remus can be seen in the distance. 
PICARD (V.O.) Captain's Log.  Stardate 47844.9. The Enterprise has arrived at Romulus and is waiting at the designated coordinates.  All our hails have gone unanswered.  We've been waiting for seventeen hours. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The crew is tense.  Silence. 
Worf, at tactical, slowly stretches his neck.  Trying to release the tension.  It cracks.  Deanna jumps a bit. 
RIKER Why don't they answer our hails? 
PICARD It's an old psychological strategy, Number One.  To put him in a position of dominance and make us uneasy. 
RIKER It's working. 
PICARD (to Deanna) Counselor? 
DEANNA They're out there, sir. 
Picard stands and walks to the viewscreen.  He gazes at Romulus below and the black infinity of space beyond. They're out there, Waiting. 
WORF Sir,  I recommend we raise shields. 
PICARD Not yet, Mister Worf. 
RIKER Captain, with all due respect to diplomatic protocols -- the Federation Council's not sitting out here, we are. 
PICARD Patience.  Diplomacy is a very exacting occupation.  We can wait. 
DATA Captain... 
And on the viewscreen. 
Shinzon's magnificent Reman Warbird, the SCIMITAR, decloaks directly before the Enterprise. 
EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE 
Our first sight of this incredible ship is absolutely breathtaking. 
Shinzon's vessel combines the clean lines of the traditional Romulan Warbird with unique weaponry and styling.  It is huge, easily twice as large as the Enterprise.  And it is aggressive.  Awesome in its power. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The crew gapes at the huge ship on the viewscreen. 
RIKER (slowly rising from his chair) My God... 
WORF (tense) Should I raise shields? 
PICARD No! 
WORF Captain -- ! 
PICARD (firm) Tactical analysis, Mister Worf. 
WORF (quickly analyzing tactical display) Fifty-two disruptor banks, twenty- seven photon torpedo bays, primary and secondary phased shields. 
RIKER She's not out for a pleasure cruise. 
PICARD (grim) She's a predator. 
WORF We're being hailed. 
PICARD On screen. 
And the image on the viewscreen transforms to: 
Shinzon's Viceroy. 
SHINZON (turning back to Picard) Yes, I'm sorry, Captain. (he smiles) There's so much we have to talk about. 
PICARD I would be interested to know what we are talking about. 
SHINZON Unity, Captain!  Tearing down the walls between us to recognize we are one people.  Federation and Romulan.  Human and Vulcan and Klingon and Reman.  I'm speaking of the thing that makes us the same. We want peace. 
Picard and the others are stunned. 
SHINZON I want to end the centuries of mistrust.  I want to be your ally, not your enemy.  As a first step I propose we eliminate the Neutral Zone and begin a free and open exchange of goods and ideas. 
PICARD And the Senate supports you? 
SHINZON (dry) I have dissolved the Senate. 
A beat. 
SHINZON Right now, you're thinking this all sounds too good to be true? 
PICARD Yes. 
SHINZON And you're wondering why the Scimitar is so well armed.  Is this the ship of a peacemaker?  Or a predator? (Picard is startled at Shinzon's choice of words) ... But you're also thinking the chance for peace is too promising to ignore.  Above all, you're trying to decide if you can trust me. 
PICARD Yes. 
SHINZON Then perhaps the time has come to add some illumination to our discussion.  Computer, raise lighting four levels. 
Lights shoot up around the room. 
For the first time the crew can see Shinzon clearly.  Picard actually gasps when he sees Shinzon's face.  The rest of the crew doesn't understand his reaction. 
SHINZON Allow me to tell you a story that I hope will clarify my position. When I was very young I was stricken with an odd disease.  I developed a hyper-sensitivity to sound.  The slightest whisper caused me agony... 
Picard watches him carefully.  Wary and strangely intense. 
SHINZON No one knew what to do.  Finally I was taken to a doctor who had some experience with Terran illnesses and I was finally diagnosed with Shalaft's syndrome.  Do you know of it, Captain? 
PICARD You know I do. 
The crew is dumbfounded at Picard's unusual reaction. 
SHINZON Then you know it's a very rare syndrome.  Genetic.  All the male members of my family had it. Eventually I was treated.  Now I can hear as well as you can, Captain. 
He steps toward Picard who holds his ground. 
SHINZON I can see as well as you can.  I can feel everything you feel. (He stops right before Picard) In fact, I feel exactly what you feel.  Don't I, Jean Luc? 
Picard stares at him with a mixture of realization and curiosity.  It is as if Picard is looking into a strange, remembered mirror: Shinzon's face is nearly identical to his at that age. 
SHINZON Do you trust me now? 
A beat. 
PICARD We need to talk, just you and I. 
SHINZON Come to dinner on Romulus tomorrow. Just the two of us.  Or just the one of us. 
PICARD You know I need to verify this. 
SHINZON I know. 
The crew is utterly confused.  Their confusion turns to outright shock when Shinzon calmly pulls out a Reman knife and cuts his arm, drawing a little blood.  He hands the knife to Data. 
SHINZON Tomorrow then, Captain.  We have so much to discuss. 
Picard touches his communicator pin: 
PICARD Picard to Enterprise.  Five to beam out. 
They dematerialize, the shimmering glow illuminating Shinzon's features.  Picard's eyes never leave Shinzon as the transporter effect ripples around him. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - DAY 
Beverly stands with Picard, Riker and Deanna.  The Reman knife is under a protonmicroscope and other medical readouts and analysis are visible. 
BEVERLY There's no doubt, Captain.  Right down to your regressive strain of Shalaft's Syndrome.  He's a clone. 
A beat as the confirmation sinks in. 
PICARD When was he... created? 
BEVERLY About twenty-five years ago.  They probably used a hair follicle or skin cell. 
PICARD (touching head) I think a skin cell's the more likely of the two. 
PICARD (gently) Can you describe it, Deanna? 
She looks at Picard, tears in her eyes. 
DEANNA It was... a violation. 
Riker takes her hand. 
DEANNA (with difficulty) Shinzon's Viceroy seems to have the ability to reach into my thoughts. I've become a liability... I request to be relieved of my duties. 
PICARD Permission denied.  If you can possibly endure any more of these assaults.  I need you at my side. Now more than ever I... 
But before the words are out of his mouth... he begins to dematerialize! 
RIKER (to comm) Worf!  Raise Shields ! 
But Picard is gone. 
EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE 
The Scimitar cloaks. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIG - NIGHT 
Picard stands in the Reman brig.  His communicator pin has been removed. 
Beyond the security force field a ghoulish medical apparatus is being prepared.  A metal chair with laser scalpels, IV tubes and hyposprays connected to it.  Reman doctors work over the mysterious chair. 
Shinzon enters with the B-9 following.  Shinzon stands on the other side of the force field. 
Picard notices something immediately.  Tiny veins are now visible on Shinzon's face; the faintest sign of an intricate spider-web pattern of pale blue veins. 
SHINZON Hello, Jean Luc. 
PICARD Why am I here? 
SHINZON I was lonely... (he realizes Picard is staring at the veins on his face) Perhaps I'm not aging as well as you did. 
He nods to a guard.  The guard deactivates the force field. A Reman doctor enters and raises a hypospray toward Picard. 
PICARD (resists) What are you doing? 
SHINZON I need a sample of your blood. What do your Borg friends say? Resistance is futile. (maniacal laugh) 
The Doctor takes a quick sample of Picard's blood as Picard glances to the B-9. 
SHINZON Yes.  The bait you couldn't refuse. I learned there might be an existing prototype from a Cardassian historian, then went to a great deal of trouble to find it and scatter it about on Kolarus III.  I knew it would pique your curiosity and conveniently make the Enterprise the closest ship to Romulus when I contacted Starfleet. 
The Reman doctor leaves the cell.  The force field is reactivated.  The doctor goes to the mysterious medical apparatus and analyzes Picard's blood.  As: 
PICARD All of this so you could capture me? 
SHINZON Don't be so vain.  After we found it, we made a few modifications. An extra memory port, a hidden transponder.  Perhaps your eyes will be a bit less confident when you learn I've gained access to Starfleet's communications protocols.  I now know the location of your entire fleet... (to B-9) ... You may go. 
B-9 Where? 
SHINZON Out of my sight. 
The B-9 obediently leaves the room as: 
SHINZON Maybe I'll train it to do little tricks for me like your robot does. Or maybe I'll snap its ugly head off. 
PICARD What's this all about? 
SHINZON It's about destiny, Picard.  About a Reman outcast who -- 
PICARD You're not Reman. 
SHINZON And I'm not quite human.  So what am I?  What do you see? (he peers at Picard deeply) Do you see a life you might have led?  Lost youth never to be recaptured? 
PICARD I see a young man trying desperately to deny who he is. 
SHINZON I see an old man, set in his ways, afraid to live without a uniform to prop him up and a Starfleet regulation to tell him what to do. I see the man I will never be. 
PICARD I won't defend my life to you. 
SHINZON My life is meaningless as long as you're alive.  What am I while you exist?  A shadow?  An enigma? 
PICARD (stern) If your issues are with me... This has nothing to do with my ship and nothing to do with the Federation. 
SHINZON Oh, but it does.  We will no longer bow like slaves before anyone.  Not the Romulans and not your mighty Federation.  We're a race bred for war.  For conquest. 
PICARD Think about what you're doing, Shinzon.  Are you ready to plunge the entire quadrant into war to satisfy your own personal demons? 
The Viceroy continues away down the corridor.  The B-9 leads Picard along. 
PICARD (whispers) Be careful of over-playing your part, Commander! 
And the audience now realizes it is Data pretending to be the B-9 and rejoices. 
DATA Sorry, sir.  I thought it added a touch of reality to the performance. 
They are silent as they pass a few Reman guards.  Then: 
DATA My mission was a success, sir.  I have discovered the source of the Thalaron radiation. 
PICARD Good work.  The download? 
DATA He believes he has our communications protocols.  But they will give him inaccurate locations for all Starfleet vessels. 
Data assumes the B-9's posture again as they pass some some Reman Warriors. 
DATA Move, puny human animal. 
They pass the Warriors. 
PICARD A bit less florid, Data. 
DATA Aye, sir... This way. 
He leads Picard down the corridor. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - GENERATION CHAMBER - NIGHT 
Data leads Picard into a massive chamber that soars up like a cathedral.  It is the size of a small town. 
The whole, cavernous chamber pulses with glowing green light. 
DATA This entire ship is, essentially, a flying Thalaron generator. (he points up) All its power relays lead to that device. 
High above them, at the very top of the chamber, is a gigantic version of the spider-weapon we saw kill all the Romulan Senators before.  It is breathtaking. 
PICARD A weapon. 
DATA It would appear so. 
Data rotates his left hand and then slides it forward, exposing a hidden compartment in his wrist.  He removes a small, silver disc.  This is a cool new piece of Federation technology called an ETU.  (Emergency Transport Unit.) 
DATA Geordi equipped me with the prototype for the Emergency Transport Unit.  I recommend you use it to return to the Enterprise. 
PICARD It'll only work for one of us. 
DATA Yes, sir. 
PICARD We'll find a way off together. Recommendations? 
DATA There is a shuttlebay 948 meters from our current location. 
Data inserts the ETU back into his wrist and they leave the chamber. 
INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT 
The Viceroy arrives on the bridge, stops. 
VICEROY Where's Picard? 
Shinzon looks at him, confused. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - NIGHT 
Security alert klaxons suddenly begin to howl and harsh Reman commands are broadcast through the corridors. 
DATA This way, sir! 
They sprint down the twisting, dark corridors -- Reman warriors suddenly appear before them! -- Data fires the disruptor as Picard launches himself into them -- 
A fight -- Picard uses a dazzlinq series of Starfleet hand- to-hand maneuvers -- he dramatically subdues the Remans. 
More Reman warriors appear down the corridor.  Picard grabs a disruptor. 
And instantly spins to fire a blazing disruptor.  A battle breaks out in the corridor -- the energy beams and explosions illuminating the violent fire fight in strobe-like bursts. 
They run to another corridor and finally arrive at the shuttlebay door -- it does not open. 
DATA (looking at door security panel) It seems to have an encrypted security system. 
Reman warriors are closing in on them. 
EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE 
The Scorpion seems to appear from nowhere -- slicing through the cloak of invisibility around the Scimitar -- 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The crew sees the Scorpion appear on the viewscreen. 
RIKER Worf!  Lock on transporters! 
INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Shinzon sees the Scorpion as well. 
SHINZON Tractor beam!  Now! 
EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE 
But they are too late -- the Scorpion dematerializes -- 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING 
And materializes in one of the Enterprise's cargo bays. Picard and Data climb out -- 
PICARD (to comm) Number One, emergency warp! 
EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - FOLLOWING 
The Enterprise dramatically powers forward and up -- rolling over in a great arc going into warp while still upside down. It disappears in a blaze of light.  Fade to... 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
Shinzon sits in his command chair as the ship streaks through space.  He speaks on viewscreen with his Romulan collaborators.  His face is even more finely veined now. 
SHINZON The Enterprise is immaterial!  They won't make it back to Federation space. 
SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN) (angry) This has gone far enough! 
SHINZON I thought we discussed patience, Commander. 
SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN) And mine is wearing thin, young man!  We supported you because you promised action.  And yet you delay and you waste your time playing games with Picard while -- 
Shinzon stands and briskly pulls down his uniform tunic exactly as we've seen Picard do a thousand times. 
SHINZON Commander Suran, the games are over.  In two days the Federation will be crippled beyond repair. Does that satisfy you? 
SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN) (grim) For the moment. 
SHINZON (brutal) And when I return... you and I shall have a little talk about showing proper respect! 
INT.  ROMULAN SENATE - CHAMBER - FOLLOWING 
The viewscreen picture of Shinzon snaps out.  The Romulan sit for a silent beat. 
DONATRA Does anyone in this room harbor any illusions about what he means by "showing proper respect"? 
TAL'AURA What's happening to his face? 
SURAN I want opinions.  He is clearly out of his mind. 
SURAN But can he complete his mission? 
DONATRA Should he? 
They look at her. 
DONATRA Are you prepared to have your hands drenched in blood?  He'll show them no mercy.  And his sins will mark us all for generations.  Is that what you truly want, Romulans? 
A beat. 
DONATRA I think you should consider that question now -- or else you may have a lifetime to think about it in the dilithium mines. 
She turns and stalks out. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - NIGHT 
Beverly sits with Picard and Riker. 
BEVERLY The more I studied his DNA the more confusing it got.  Finally I could only come to one conclusion... Shinzon was created with temporal RNA sequencing.  He was designed so that at a certain point his aging process could be accelerated to reach your age more quickly, so he could replace you. 
PICARD But the Romulans abandoned the plan... 
BEVERLY As a result the temporal sequencing was never activated.  Remember, he was supposed to replace you at nearly your current age.  He was engineered to skip thirty years of life.  But since the RNA sequencing was never activated, his cellular structure has started to break down.  He's dying. 
PICARD And the Romulans invade. 
DEANNA How can you be certain? 
PICARD I know how he thinks. 
A beat. 
RIKER (to Geordi) And there's no way to penetrate his cloak? 
GEORDI No, sir. 
RIKER (frustrated) He could pass within 10 meters of every ship in Starfleet and they'd never know. 
BEVERLY But we do have one advantage. (to Picard) He needs your blood to live.  He might come after you first. 
PICARD I'm counting on it... We've been ordered to head to sector 3274. Starfleet is diverting the fleet to meet us there. 
RIKER Strength in numbers? 
PICARD We can only hope so. 
A beat as he looks at them gravely. 
PICARD He can't be allowed to use that weapon.  All other concerns are secondary.  Do you understand me? 
Riker knows exactly what Picard is saying: the Enterprise is expendable. 
RIKER Yes, sir. 
Picard stands.  Presses a comm button. 
PICARD All hands.  Battle stations. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - VARIOUS ANGLES 
We see a montage of the Enterprise preparing for battle. 
Crew members assume battle stations.  Weapons locker ring open and Security Officers hand out sidearms and phaser rifles. 
Geordi and his Engineers establish emergency force field around the warp core. 
Riker and Worf brief officers on tactical plans... 
Data works at the bridge Science Station, analyzing data on Shinzon's ship. 
Picard walks through the corridors, he stops to talk with apprehensive young ensign. 
As we hear: 
PICARD (V.O.) Captain's Personal Log. Supplemental.  We're heading toward Federation space at maximum warp. The crew has responded with the dedication I've come to expect of them.  And like a thousand other commanders on a thousand other battlefields throughout history, I wait for the dawn. 
The montage ends as... 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - NIGHT 
Picard enters sickbay. 
Dr. Crusher and her medical staff are hard at work.  They position anti-grav gurneys and ready medical supplies. Security officers are handing out phasers. 
Picard watches the grim preparations.  Beverly goes to him, bolstering her phaser. 
PICARD (quietly) To seek out new life and new civilizations.  Zephyr Cochran's own words.  When Charles Darwin set out on the H.M.S. Beagle, on his journey into the unknown... he sailed without a single musket. 
BEVERLY (gently) That was another time. 
PICARD How far we've come.  Let me know if you need anything. 
He starts to go -- 
BEVERLY Jean Luc... (he stops) ... He is not you. 
A beat. 
PICARD What makes us who we are, Doctor? Can you tell me that? 
She watches him go. 
INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT 
Shinzon sits in his command chair, lined with veins now. His Viceroy again has his hand pressed to Shinzon's chest. 
SHINZON How long? 
The Bassen Rift is a strange area of electromagnetic distortion.  Energy patterns crackle through space. 
INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Shinzon sits in his command chair.  The viewscreen shows the Enterprise before him. 
SHINZON Target weapons systems and shields. I don't want the Enterprise destroyed. 
On the viewscreen, we see disruptor blasts streaking from the Scimitar -- slicing into the Enterprise. 
SHINZON Can you learn to see in the dark, Captain? 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Picard and Data emerge from the turbolift as the ship ROCKS -- 
PICARD Report. 
RIKER He's firing through his cloak.  We can't get a lock. 
GEORDI (at engineering station) He disabled our warp drive with his first shot.  We've only got impulse. 
WORF Long range communication is impossible as long as we're in the rift -- 
The ship SHUDDERS again -- 
PICARD Worf, prepare a full phaser spread, zero elevation.  All banks on my mark.  Scan for shield impacts and stand by photon torpedoes. 
WORF Aye, sir 
The ship ROCKS again. 
PICARD Fire! 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
The Enterprise fires her phasers simultaneously -- the energy beams shoot into space -- 
And the Scimitar's shape is momentarily illuminated as one of its shields is hit. 
Photon torpedoes immediately shoot from the Enterprise -- but pass harmlessly through the area where the Scimitar's shields were momentarily illuminated. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
SHINZON You're too slow, old man. (entering commands in his chair console) Attack pattern Shinzon Theta. 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
The invisible Warbird makes a dramatic run straight over the Enterprise -- firing steadily down as it sweeps past it; is a brutal, close range assault -- 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The bridge SHAKES violently under the ruthless attack-- 
DATA We are losing dorsal shields -- 
PICARD Full axis rotation to port!  Fire all ventral phasers! 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
The Enterprise instantly complies -- Rolling completely over to the left, firing phasers up as Shinzon's invisible ship streaks above it -- 
A few lucky phaser shots from the bottom of the Enterprise -- now shooting upward -- manage to momentarily illuminate the bottom shields of the Scimitar as it sweeps past above. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
WORF Minimal damage to the Scimitar. 
RIKER (to Helm) Defensive pattern Kirk Epsilon. Geordi, get those shields online. 
PICARD (to comm) Counselor Troi, report to the bridge. 
RIKER Unless we can disable his cloak we're just going to be firing in the dark. 
PlCARD Agreed. 
WORF Sir, we're being hailed. 
PICARD On screen. 
Shinzon appears on the viewscreen.  He is on the bridge of the Scimitar. 
SHINZON (ON VIEWSCREEN) Captain Picard, will you join me in your Ready Room? 
SHINZON I'll show you my true nature.  Your nature.  And as Earth dies -- remember that I'm forever Shinzon of Remus!  And my voice will echo through time long after yours has faded to a dim memory. 
Shinzon ends the transmission and his holographic image flickers and fades away. 
Picard stands alone, drained. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Shinzon strides quickly to his command chair, barking to his Viceroy: 
SHINZON Disable their weapons! 
But before the Viceroy can move the Scimitar suddenly ROCKS -- attacked from somewhere!  Shinzon is stunned. 
SHINZON Report! 
REMAN OFFICER Two ships decloaking, sir! Romulan! 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Picard strides to his command chair as two Romulan Warbirds appear on the viewscreen.  Deanna is now on the bridge. 
RIKER Believe it or not, I think the cavalry has arrived. 
WORF We're being hailed. 
PICARD On screen. 
On the viewscreen: Commander Donatra shimmers into view. 
DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN) Captain Picard, Commander Donatra of the Warbird Valdore.  Might we be of assistance? 
PICARD Your timing is impeccable, Commander. 
DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN) The Empire considers this a matter of internal security.  We regret you've become involved. 
PICARD When this is over, I owe you a drink. 
On the viewscreen, the Valdore ROCKS from a disruptor blast. 
DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN) Romulan ale, Captain.  Let's get to work.  Valdore out. 
The transmission ends. 
PICARD (to Worf) You heard the lady.  Get to work. Move your ass! 
(The Romulan Warbirds must remain decloaked to fire weapons and are visible throughout the battle.) 
Although Shinzon's ship is still cloaked, the steady barrage of triangulated phaser and disruptor fire from the Enterprise and the two Romulan vessels illuminate its shields with impacts. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
PICARD (to Worf) Coordinate our attack with the Valdore's tactical officer. Triangulate fire on any shield impacts. 
WORF Aye, sir. 
The Enterprise ROCKS from a photon torpedo impact -- 
DATA Aft shields are down to forty percent. 
RIKER (to Helm) Keep our bow to the Scimitar. Auxiliary power to forward shields. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Shinzon sits quite calmly in his command chair. 
SHINZON Target the flanking Warbird.  All forward disruptor banks on my mark. 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
It is a chaos of starships as the Enterprise and the two Warbirds fire steadily -- illuminating the Scimitar's shields. 
The ships sweep around one another, maneuvering for position, firing constantly.  The battlefield seems impossibly crowded as the four vessels evade and attack; as phaser and disruptor beams criss-cross space. 
Then the Scimitar unleashes a devastating volley... all her forward disruptor banks fire at once -- 
They literally cut one of the Romulan ships in half -- a huge EXPLOSION -- debris SHOOTS across space and SLAMS VIOLENTLY off the Enterprise's forward shields -- ! 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The ship ROCKS dangerously! 
DATA Forward shields are down to ten percent. 
She quickly goes to Worf at tactical. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
Shinzon is entering tactical commands in his chair console. 
SHINZON Prepare a lateral run -- all starboard disruptors. 
Then the viceroy suddenly stiffens, alarm in his eyes -- 
VICEROY No! 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Deanna concentrates furiously, eyes closed.  She stands with Worf, her hand slowly moving his over the photon torpedo targeting display. 
It is a wrenching experience as she probes with her thoughts. 
DEANNA He's resisting me. 
She is in pain. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The Viceroy concentrates, trying to block her probing thoughts. 
SHINZON What is it?!  Focus on your job!!! 
VICEROY She is here. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Deanna continues to move Worf's hand over the targeting display.  She is sweating, panting for breath, concentrating fiercely. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The Viceroy resists her -- their psyches lock in battle. Deanna appears in the Viceroy's mind, she glares at him. 
DEANNA Remember me? 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Her eyes snap open -- 
DEANNA NOW! 
Worf instantly fires a full volley of photon torpedoes. 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
A full spread of photon torpedoes shoot through space. 
And connect!  A series of devastating impacts -- and the Scimitar's cloak fails! 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
Picard stands quickly. 
PICARD Savage them! 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
And the Enterprise attacks! 
It fires all weapons simultaneously -- phasers and photon torpedoes slam into the Scimitar!  Shinzon's ship responds quickly -- maneuvering for position and returning fire! 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING 
The bridge has been damaged, sparks sputter through the darkness and debris litters the deck. 
Shinzon eyes reflect a growing sense of desperation. 
SHINZON (spinning to his Viceroy) Prepare a boarding party -- BRING ME PICARD! 
The viceroy strides out as Shinzon spins to another officer. 
SHINZON Get the cloak back!  And target shield coordinates beta three.  All disruptors.  Fire! 
On the viewscreen, we see disruptor beams focusing on a tiny part of the Enterprise's lower shields, slamming into them. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
DATA Captain, we have lost ventral shielding on deck twenty nine. 
DEANNA Let him go. 
Picard powers up the phaser rifle as: 
PICARD (to Data) You have the bridge, Commander. Use all available power to move away from the Scimitar. (to Geordi) Now, Mister La Forge. 
GEORDI Aye, sir. 
Geordi nervously works some controls on his console and Picard dematerializes.  Then the transporter panel explodes in a shower of sparks. 
GEORDI That's it.  Transporters are down. 
Data thinks for a moment.  Then: 
DATA Counsellor Troi, please assume command.  Geordi, if you will come with me. 
He heads toward the turbolift, Geordi following. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Several Remen warriors in the corridor turn and fire.  Riker returns fire, a series of lightning fast pulses from his phaser rifle. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - FORWARD CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Data and Geordi stand in a long corridor.  The far end of the corridor opens to space.  An emergency force field is in place at the end of the corridor. 
Geordi operates a tricorder and another force field flickers on around him. 
Data looks toward the end of the corridor, readying himself. 
DATA What is our approximate distance? 
GEORDI (scans with tricorder) 400 meters. 
DATA Thank you. 
Data backs up a little more   He looks at Geordi again. Deeply. 
DATA Thank you, Geordi.  Deactivate the field. 
Geordi operates his tricorder and the force field at the end of the corridor snaps off -- 
The void of space fills the corridor and Data takes a running start -- he races down the long corridor and leaps -- 
EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE 
-- into space. 
He floats toward the Scimitar, his momentum carrying him. Carrying him too far! 
He is going to miss the Scimitar -- almost past it now!  He thrusts out a hand -- 
And just misses a piece of dangling wreckage!  Data is floating helplessly through space.  Doomed.  Then he SLAMS into an invisible piece of the partially cloaked on the ship! 
He grabs onto the invisible part of the ship and pulls himself up to the hull.  He rips open an access panel with his superior strength and climbs inside. 
INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
Shinzon stands, his eyes glued to the Enterprise on the viewscreen. 
We see a monitor showing that the Cascading Pulse weapon is locked on the Enterprise. 
Most of the light on the shattered bridge now comes from the three steadily pulsing warp core relays which soar up through the floor. 
COMPUTER (V.O) Forty-seven.  Forty six... 
Suddenly -- a MASSIVE BLAST as the doors to the bridge explode in.  Shinzon spins to see -- 
Picard framed in the doorway, phaser rifle ready. 
Picard instantly fires for the Cascading Pulse control -- but Shinzon dives to cover it -- the phaser blast hits Shinzon in the chest -- he recoils, slamming to the deck, stunned. 
The few remaining Remans on the bridge spin to Picard, firing disruptors -- Picard dives for cover and battles them with his phaser rifle -- 
He succeeds in stunning the Remans but a final disruptor blast knocks Picard to the deck -- the phaser rifle spins away -- 
COMPUTER (V.O.) Twenty nine... Twenty eight... 
Shinzon pulls himself up and races to snatch up a disruptor from a fallen comrade -- 
As Picard leaps up, grabbing a piece of wreckage, a long metal rod -- Picard thrusts it forward like a spear -- 
Impaling Shinzon. 
At first we, don't quite see what they are doing.  Then we realize they are affixing black bars to the collars of their uniforms. 
Mourning bands. 
Picard pours six glasses of his precious Chateau Picard. Each takes a glass. 
Picard raises his glass. 
PICARD To absent friends... o family. 
They toast Data.  Slow fade to... 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - PICARD'S CABIN - NIGHT 
Picard sits at his desk, speaking quietly to someone we do not see. 
PICARD I don't know if all this has made sense to you, but I wanted you to know what kind of man he was.  In his quest to be more like us, he helped show us what it means to be human. 
We see it is the now re-activated B-9 sitting across from him. 
B-9 My brother was not a human. 
PICARD No, he wasn't... But his wonder and his curiosity about every facet of human life helped all of us see the best parts of ourselves.  He embraced change... because he always wanted to be more than he was. 
B-9 I do not understand. 
PICARD Well, I hope someday you will. 
Worf interrupts on comm: 
WORF (V.O.) (ON COMM) Captain, the Hemingway has arrived to tow us to spacedock. 
PICARD On my way.  Please notify Commander Riker... (he stands, prepares to go) ... We'll talk later? 
The B-9 does not respond.  He is looking rather blankly at the padd on Picard's desk. 
Picard begins to leave when a sound stops him... humming.  He turns back to the B-9. 
The B-9 is still looking blankly at the padd... but he's humming lightly to himself... then he begins to sing, very softly... 
B-9 "Blue skies, smiling at me, Nothing but blue skies do I see." 
Then the B-9 is silent. 
Picard watches him for a moment; great emotion playing over his features, and then goes. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
Picard and Riker head toward a turbolift... making their way past the debris littering the corridor. 
PICARD I'm sorry you won't be here for the re-fit, but I know the Titan needs you immediately. 
Riker does not respond. 
Picard stops, looks at Riker deeply. 
PICARD The Titan's a fine ship, Will.  And she's getting a captain worthy of her. 
RIKER She's the most beautiful ship I've ever seen. (he touches a wall of the corridor) ... But she's not the Enterprise. 
PICARD I promise you in time, she'll become your home... If I could offer you one piece of advice? 
RIKER Anything. 
PICARD When your first officer insists that you can't go on away missions... Ignore him -- 
RIKER (smiles) I intend to. 
A moment. 
RIKER (with difficulty) Serving with you has been an honor. 
PICARD The honor was mine.  Captain Riker. 
EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACEDOCK - OVER EARTH 
A few weeks later.  The Enterprise is enclosed in the great womb of a spacedock.  The ship is being rebuilt. 
INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT 
A fresh-faced young officer, COMMANDER MARTIN MADDEN, paces nervously outside Picard's Ready Room.  Bracing himself before entering. 
Behind him we can see technicians working everywhere around the bridge, trying to rebuild it.  Worf is talking to a young officer at tactical and Geordi is working at the engineering station.  We also see new command chairs being installed. 
