A QUANTUM TORPEDO BLASTS out of the launcher and heads toward the Borg cube. This torpedo is completely different than the traditional photon torpedo. It oscillates and changes shape and color as it streaks toward the Borg ship. 
20   THE BORG SHIP                                               20 
as the quantum torpedo HITS IT. But instead of exploding on the surface, the torpedo PIERCES the ship like an armor-piercing shell and momentarily VANISHES from view. The ship then EXPLODES like a star going supernova -- bright light and shock waves. 
21   INT. BRIDGE                                                 21 
The ship is ROCKED violently by the shock wave. People hanging on. 
DATA Main power still on-line, Captain. 
Riker looks at his console. 
RIKER Casualties are light, Captain. Minor buckling on the port nacelle. Nothing serious. 
WORF Incoming message from the Starship Intrepid. Admiral Hayes. 
PICARD On screen. 
The viewer shows ADMIRAL HAYES on the Bridge of his starship. 
ADMIRAL HAYES The new quantum torpedoes are doing the trick, Jean-Luc. We've destroyed forty-seven Borg ships so far... and only lost fifteen of our own. (beat) But one of the Borg ships has broken through our defenses, and it's heading directly for Earth. Can you handle it? 
PICARD Absolutely. 
ADMIRAL HAYES Good hunting. Hayes out. 
PICARD Mister Data, set a pursuit course. Maximum warp. 
22   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                 22 
as it breaks away from the battle...and races INTO WARP. 
23   EXT. SPACE - EARTH                                          23 
There are Starfleet satellites and space stations in close orbit. The Borg Sphere seen before enters frame. The satellites open fire, but they have little effect on the massive Borg Sphere, which returns fire, EXPLODING them in orbit. 
The Sphere heads down toward the Earth... 
24   INT. BRIDGE                                                 24 
DATA We are approaching the Terran System, Captain. 
PICARD Go to impulse. Where's the Borg ship? 
DATA It has entered Earth orbit. (off console) Correction -- it is not in orbit. It is heading directly toward the surface. 
PICARD What? 
Picard gets up, moves to Data's console. 
RIKER (incredulous) Some sort of suicide tactic? 
DATA Unknown, sir. Suicide tactics are not normally associated with the Borg. 
Data reacts to his console. 
DATA Sensors show a temporal signature emanating from the Sphere. High concentrations of tachyons... 
Picard studies Data's monitor. 
PICARD And chronometric particles... it's as though they're trying to create a temporal vortex... 
A beat as Picard makes a shocking realization. 
PICARD Time travel... they're attempting time travel... (beat) Full power, Mister Data. Worf, quantum torpedoes at my command! 
WORF Aye, sir. 
25   EXT. EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE                                     25 
The Borg Sphere GLOWING RED and beginning to burn with friction as it PLUMMETS toward Earth... 
26   NEW ANGLE - THE ENTERPRISE                                  26 
plunging down into the atmosphere, giving chase... 
27   INT. BRIDGE                                                 27 
Urgent. 
WORF Range -- fifty kilometers. 
DATA A temporal vortex is forming directly ahead of the Sphere. 
The Enterprise is being chased by FIVE BORG SHIPS as it heads down toward the planet. The Borg vessels FIRE on the Enterprise. 
34   INT. BRIDGE                                                 34 
As before. The ship is shaking. 
WORF Hull integrity down to thirty percent... 
PICARD Steady as she goes. 
35   INCLUDE VIEWSCREEN (OPTICAL)                                35 
Ahead of the ship, we see the VORTEX collapsing. The shaking increases. A console EXPLODES. 
WORF Borg vessels are closing to two thousand meters. 
The ship is HIT AGAIN AND AGAIN. On the View Screen, we're nearly on the vortex, but it's closing fast. 
PICARD Take us in! 
36   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE & VORTEX (OPTICAL)                  36 
The Enterprise just barely makes it inside the vortex as it finally COLLAPSES. Both the Enterprise and the vortex VANISH. 
CUT TO: 
37   EXT. SPACE                                                  37 
An empty star field. Suddenly, the VORTEX APPEARS and the Enterprise comes ROARING out into space. The vortex VANISHES behind the ship. 
38   INT. BRIDGE                                                 38 
The shaking subsides. Everyone exchanges a look, tries to re-orient themselves. 
PICARD Report. 
RIKER We're still in Earth orbit. 
PICARD On screen. 
39   INCLUDE VIEWSCREEN                                          39 
Which shows Earth. The Borg pollution is gone. 
PICARD What year is it? 
DATA (working) According to our astrometric readings... the year is 2063. 
WORF Captain, I've found the Borg Sphere. It's on the far side of the planet...firing at the surface. 
PICARD (to Data) Intercept course, full impulse. (to Worf) Weapons status? 
WORF Phasers are off-line... we have two quantum torpedoes left. But the computer targeting system has been destroyed. 
PICARD Go to manual. 
Worf pops open a panel and a high-tech TARGETING console emerges with a small MONITOR and a traditional CROSS- HAIR in the center. Worf grabs the targeting hand- controls -- futuristic joysticks. 
40   EXT. SPACE - THE BORG SPHERE                                40 
The ship is FIRING its weapons down toward the planet as the Enterprise comes up over the horizon. 
41   INT. BRIDGE                                                 41 
As before. Worf works his controls. A complex array of grids, coordinate information, speed data, and other weapons info on the monitor screen. He begins trying to focus the cross-hairs on the Sphere. 
PICARD (over above action, to Troi) Track their weapons fire. 
TROI (off console) Western hemisphere... North American continent... 
DATA We are within torpedo range. 
RIKER They've seen us. They're taking evasive action. 
PICARD (urgent) Mister Worf? 
Worf struggles with the targeting system. 
WORF Target... 
The crosshairs keep missing the image of the Borg Sphere, which is now twisting and turning to evade us. Troi reacts to her console. 
TROI Captain, they're firing at a nuclear missile silo... in central Montana. 
WORF (struggling) Target... 
BEVERLY Cochrane... the inventor of warp drive? 
PICARD Yes... 
BEVERLY But he's been dead for three hundred... (realizes, long sigh) Oh God... we've gone back in time again, haven't we? 
PICARD I'm afraid so. If the Borg succeed in preventing First Contact with the Vulcans... Earth will remain in the Second Dark Age... an easy target when the Borg arrive in the 24th century. 
BEVERLY Well, why didn't you just say so in the first place? 
Picard gives her a look. As they keep walking... 
CUT TO: 
46   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                 46 
hanging in orbit of Earth. 
47   INT. ENGINEERING                                            47 
CLOSE ON A DEAD CREWMEMBER lying on her back. A sheet is covering her face. A hand reaches in, pulls back the sheet, revealing the face of a crewman. 
TROI Lieutenant Sandra Farrel. 
WIDEN to REVEAL Troi and Data. Data is holding back the sheet while Troi scans the body with a tricorder. There is repair work going on in the b.g. Two medical N.D.s stand by. 
TROI It appears death was caused by a plasma discharge. (beat) I'll note in her record that she never left her post. 
Troi glances at Data, who is clearly disturbed by the sight of the dead woman, holding his EMOTIONS in check with difficulty. 
TROI Did you know her? 
DATA Not very well. We met shortly after the Enterprise-E was commissioned. I found her to be a most... promising officer. 
Troi looks at him in concern. 
TROI Data... are you sure you're all right? 
DATA I am still having difficulty integrating certain emotions into my programming. Grief, loss, remorse... 
TROI We still have to make reports on ten more crewmen killed in action. Maybe you should deactivate your emotion chip until we're done. 
Data considers. 
DATA No. Human beings do not have that luxury, and neither should I. 
TROI I will admit... there are times when I wish I had an emotion chip I could turn on and off. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Riker to Data. 
DATA (taps combadge) Go ahead, Commander. 
INTERCUT: 
48   INT. BRIDGE                                                 48 
Riker, Worf, N.D.s at their stations. 
RIKER We're reading some kind of gas leak in the Environmental Control Room. Take a repair team down and check it out. 
DATA On my way, Commander. 
As Data EXITS... 
49   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                 49 
A WIDE SHOT of the ship. CAMERA CLOSES ON the AFT SECTION of the ship, moving underneath of the hull, pushing in on an area at the very bottom of the Enterprise. 
50   INT. ENVIROMENTAL CONTROL                                   50 
Data and ENSIGN PORTER ENTER through a set of doors. The lights are off in the room, dim. This is a large room crammed with many conduits, gas tanks, 24th century machinery and monitors. It's normally unmanned -- this is where oxygen, gravity, heat, and other environmental conditions of the ship are controlled. In a far corner of the room a CONDUIT leading to a series of high-pressure TANKS labeled "D-O2" has ruptured and is SPEWING a corrosive, poisonous GAS. 
Data scans it with his tricorder. 
DATA (to Porter) One of the diathermic oxygen tanks has been damaged. 
PORTER (shocked) Diathermic oxygen? 
DATA It is a new subsystem of Nova Class ships. It regulates hydropressure and temperature variance. (beat) Remain here. The gas is highly corrosive to organic material. It would liquefy your flesh on contact. 
PORTER Be my guest, sir. 
Data walks over to the spewing gas tank, and without concern shoves both hands into the corrosive gas... 
... groping around for the broken conduit, finally grabs hold of it... and with android strength BENDS the metal conduit back into the bulkhead. The gas stops leaking. Data is completely unaffected by the corrosive gas. 
PICARD (to others) See if any of these men are Cochrane. 
Geordi and the Guards start checking the dead bodies. 
GEORDI Mitchell... DePaul... 
LANGE This one's a woman... named Kirby. 
Picard and Beverly move toward the immense blast door. As Beverly scans it, Picard glances at a nearby desk... 
57   THE DESK                                                    57 
is littered with debris and various documents and schematics. THREE PHOTOGRAPHS are pinned to a bulletin board above the desk -- they show Zephram Cochrane and two angles of his warp ship. The photos are odd- looking, printed on what appears to be some sort of cloth. 
BEVERLY There's a life sign behind this door... about ten meters below. 
Geordi moves to the door. 
GEORDI Blast door. It's designed to protect the control room when the missile is launched. 
PICARD There should be some kind of manual release... 
They hunt around for a moment. Geordi runs his hand along the edge of the blast door. Picard turns to the Guards. 
PICARD (to Lange) Get those fires out and then try to restore main power to the control room. 
LANGE Aye, sir. 
The Guards move off. 
GEORDI Got it, Captain. 
Geordi has found an emergency BOX with several pneumatic tubes and a hydraulic lever labeled "emergency use only." He pulls down the lever, there is a hissing sound, and the blast door slowly SLIDES DOWN into the floor. We can now see the MISSILE SILO itself beyond the door. Picard, Geordi and Beverly step into... 
58   INT. MISSILE SILO - CONTINUOUS                              58 
Picard, Geordi and Beverly step onto the catwalk, which surrounds the Silo walls. In the middle is the WARP SHIP itself. It should look like an advanced ICBM missile with a COCKPIT in place of the warhead, and with numerous modifications to the fuselage. The cockpit is on the same level as the control room. On the side of the missile is the name "Phoenix". The missile itself extends down another FOUR STORIES. There are other catwalks below this one, with ladders connecting the different levels. Beverly sees something below. 
BEVERLY There. 
59   NEW ANGLE                                                   59 
Two catwalks below we can see a man sprawled on the grating. They all scramble down the ladders past the massive missile. (NOTE: Because of the design of the Silo, we will see the entire missile only in a few shots. For the most part, our view is limited to sections of the missile.) 
Beverly reaches the man, who is lying face-down on the metal grating. She scans him... 
BEVERLY Severe radiation exposure... 
Geordi looks over at the section of the missile on their level. The side panels have been removed, revealing complex circuitry within. 
Picard joins Beverly, who turns over the injured man. It's ZEPHRAM COCHRANE -- the man whose picture we saw on the Borg monitors. Beverly begins pulling devices out of her medkit, injects Cochrane with a hypospray. Cochrane is a man in his mid-forties. He has a youthful, dynamic appearance marred by recent radiation burns. 
PICARD It's Cochrane. 
BEVERLY I've stabilized him for now... but he's in a coma and he's going to need radiometric therapy. I want to take him to the ship. 
Picard nods, reaches into his pants pocket, takes out a combadge. 
PICARD Picard to Enterprise. (no response) Enterprise, please respond. 
GEORDI It could be the radiation, Captain. Try from the surface. 
Picard nods... then takes a deep breath, tries to orient himself to the task at hand... there's a lot at stake and a lot to do. He turns to Geordi. 
PICARD Mister La Forge, listen very carefully. If you remember your history... in less than twenty- four hours, a Vulcan ship will be passing through this system. When it does, this ship needs to be in space, flying at warp speed. 
Geordi takes a deep breath, it's a tall order. 
GEORDI I'd better get started. 
Geordi goes to work. Picard bends down and carefully hoists Cochrane up into a fireman's carry. Beverly follows him up the catwalk... 
CUT TO: 
60   EXT. MISSILE SILO - DAY                                     60 
Minutes later. Cochrane is lying on the ground. Beverly is kneeling beside him, unfolding a portable stretcher from her medkit. Picard is checking two combadges with a tricorder. 
PICARD It's not the radiation... and there's nothing wrong with the combadges... the Enterprise just isn't responding. 
BEVERLY Jean-Luc, this man needs medical attention, now. 
PICARD As I recall, the town of Resurrection is about two kilometers East of here. They might have a hospital... 
Picard looks troubled at the thought. 
66   DATA'S POV                                                  66 
As the table gyrates, we REVEAL the ROOM slowly. And we realize we're in -- 
67   INT. BORG HIVE                                              67 
The Environmental Control Room seen earlier has now been transformed into the INNER-SANCTUM of the BORG. The room has a dark, moist, organic feel -- a tropical jungle of cybernetic equipment. 
The Borg are altering the room, converting Starfleet technology and materials into the living, bio- mechanical look of the Borg. We see one Borg drone attach a small pod to a Starfleet console and activate it. The pod immediately sends out a COMPLEX WEB of BORG TECHNOLOGY which covers the Starfleet console inside and out. It's like weeds overpowering a flower bed -- within seconds the console has been BORGIFIED. 
The walls, ceiling and floor are now honeycombed with the ALCOVES that make up the BORG COLLECTIVE. Borg drones are motionless in their alcoves, cabling and other conduits connecting them to various equipment... while other Borg are moving about the room, carrying out various modifications to the room. At one point, we see Ensign Porter. He's been completely Borgified. His skin pale, expression blank. No hint of humanity left. 
68   DATA                                                        68 
still strapped to the table, which is twisting and rotating, giving him frightening new glimpses of the room. A new image appears -- SIX BORG DRONES are clustered together in one section of the room, each with an elaborate series of hoses and conduits connected to its face. 
Through the tubes we can see an exchange of FLUID and ENERGY pulsing back and forth -- some sort of bizarre "feeding" or "renewal" is going on. The tubes all seem to lead toward the ceiling. 
Data is now horizontal on his back and the table LOCKS into position. A Borg drone OPENS A PANEL on the side of Data's head, and begins connecting a thick bundle of optical cabling to it. 
DATA (to Borg) Your efforts to assimilate me will be unsuccessful. 
The Borg ignores him, activates a console... and the cabling connected to Data's head LIGHTS UP with power. They're trying to connect him to the Collective. 
Data thinks for a moment, tilts his head slightly... and then suddenly there's a SHOWER of SPARKS from the cabling he's been connected to. The lights on the cable go out. Data has thwarted their attempts. 
DATA (to Borg) It would appear that resistance is not always futile. 
Suddenly a new VOICE is heard echoing through the room -- a woman's voice, low, seductive, deadly: 
WOMAN'S VOICE Brave words. I've heard them before from thousands of species across thousands of worlds... since long before you were created. 
Data looks up toward... 
69   THE CEILING                                                 69 
A RUSTLE of MOVEMNET somewhere in the cyber-tangle... almost like a snake slithering beneath the weeds. And for a brief instant we get a glimpse of a FACE unlike any Borg we've ever seen. The face of a woman. Pale- skinned... piercing eyes...raven hair slicked back... a hauntingly beautiful image in a sea of nightmarish technology. And then it's gone. 
70   DATA                                                        70 
Frowns. He saw it, too, but he's not sure what to make of it. 
WOMAN'S VOICE But now... they are all one with the Borg. 
DATA I am unlike any lifeform you have encountered before. As an android, I am in complete control of my neural net. The information contained there cannot be forcibly removed. 
WOMAN'S VOICE You are an imperfect being... created by an imperfect being. Finding your weakness is only a matter of time. 
Suddenly three Borg drones converge on Data with various wicked-looking Borg devices. One of the Borg has a specialized cybernetic ARM, which EXTRUDES a series of stiletto-tipped DRILL SPIKES. As the six- inch spikes begin to BORE INTO Data's head... 
CUT TO: 
71   EXT. MONTANA - RESURRECTION CITY - DAY                      71 
Resurrection is a small town -- around 1,000 people -- a rural, Western community that's probably existed for at least two hundred years, and we can see the roots of the original ranching community in some of the architecture. But it's also a community of the 21st century. 
The most striking feature of the town is that it sits in the middle of nearly a hundred WIND MILLS, which provide the only source of power for the town. The blades are enormous, but the structures supporting them are little more than simple poles. Some are sleek, fiberglass, futuristic... others have a more cobbled together, make-shift appearance. At the moment, only a few blades are turning in the gentle breeze. 
Picard and Beverly emerge from the nearby woods carrying the stretcher. They exchange a look at the sight of the city and then head toward it... 
72   EXT. RESURRECTION CITY - DAY                                72 
A few minutes later. Picard and Beverly carrying Cochrane down the street toward the hospital at the end. As they walk along, we get our first taste of post-apocalyptic 21st century life: 
This is a recognizable American community, but it's definitely a futuristic town. Clothing, architecture, technology -- all have changed over the course of seventy years. But it is a broken future. What used to be high-tech public COMPUTER TERMINALS are rusted and abandoned. We can see the corroded hulks of HOVER- CARS lying idle in the streets. Futuristic elements now useless. 
At one point, they pass a large polyurethane TENT -- the inside surface is covered with condensation and we can see the silhouettes of people moving within. The entrance is guarded by a single Militia Guard. Later we will learn that this is a primitive greenhouse, the only place where they can grow uncontaminated food. 
What used to be a McDonald's, or some other recognizable food chain, has now been gutted and has been turned into a kind of blacksmith shop. People are fashioning metal into various tools using hammer and tongs. 
The sidewalks are populated with PEOPLE, who congregate in small groups, quietly talking amongst themselves, others just staring vacantly off into space. Many of them have visible burn scars and damage to their bodies -- victims of the war and post-nuclear environmental dangers. A few of them are applying a special lotion to their arms and face -- protection against the toxic elements. A long FOOD LINE snakes around a block, as people line up to get their daily rations. 
A few people glance up at Picard and Beverly with curious or suspicious looks. This is not a community that welcomes strangers. At one point, they see a man dressed in futuristic CAMOUFLAGE carrying an automatic weapon -- we will learn he's a MILITIA SOLDIER. He stares at them with a neutral expression, then walks off. 
The people here have that hollow-eyed, listless look about them. They're going through something that makes the Great Depression look like a minor inconvenience. But there's also a toughness to these people, a resilience and determination to survive in the face of overwhelming odds. We are looking at our future... and it's on the verge of collapse. 
CUT TO: 
73   INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - DAY                        73 
A short time later. Cochrane is being lifted onto an operating table. Picard and Beverly step back from the table as a DOCTOR and two NURSES look him over. The doctor is in his early fifties and has a weathered, tired look to him. The hospital itself is like the rest of the town -- a futuristic setting fallen on hard times. The light in the room is provided mostly from the sunlight streaming in through the windows. Light bulbs and other gear flicker dimly around the hospital -- we get the feeling they have very little power. 
DOCTOR How long has he been unconscious? 
BEVERLY At least four hours. 
78   INT. HOSPITAL WARD - DAY                                    78 
It's filled with patients. The lights and equipment here FLASH ON, as well. Doctors and patients alike react with surprise. 
79   INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - DAY                        79 
Picard enters. They've placed a RESPIRATOR down Cochrane's throat, and attached electrodes to his chest. Beverly has just finished giving him an injection with a hypospray. The heart monitor in the background is now beating regularly. The doctor turns to Picard. 
DOCTOR What did you do to the batteries? 
PICARD Oh... just a little tinkering. How is he? 
BEVERLY He's stable... for now. (with meaning) But it would be better if we could contact... our friends. 
PICARD Yes. But until then, you'll have to make do with what you've got. 
BEVERLY That'll be interesting. 
A WOMAN'S VOICE: 
RUBY'S VOICE What happened to him? 
Everyone turns. 
80   NEW ANGLE                                                   80 
revealing RUBY SLOANE standing at the front of Cochrane's bed. A striking woman in her mid-to-late thirties -- dark hair, tall, lean, beautiful under normal circumstances but at the moment she's not at her best, it looks like she's just come in from a hard day's work. She's wearing an old lab coat. But the most striking quality of all is the innate intelligence we can see in her eyes. 
She's looking directly at Picard for an answer. Picard realizes he has to say something. He looks into her eyes and there is a moment here -- a brief spark of chemistry that in normal circumstances the Captain just might follow up. But at the moment, he shoves that electric feeling aside and tries to give her an answer. 
PICARD There was some kind of explosion out at the missile silo... 
She looks at him for a moment, her eyes boring into him without expression, as though probing the truthfulness of his statement. 
DOCTOR Ruby, we're going to need a series of cranial X-rays tonight. 
RUBY (nods) I have a fresh set of plates at home. I'll have them here by eight. 
She turns back to Cochrane, moves to his side, gently takes his hand and looks at him with sad affection. 
RUBY (quiet) Take care of him. He's a very special man. 
PICARD Yes, he is. 
She looks up at Picard, and again there's a slight feeling of chemistry in the air. And then she turns and starts to walk out of the room. Picard's combadge BEEPS. Reactions. 
GEORDI'S COM VOICE La Forge to Picard. 
RUBY (stopping) I think there's someone in your pants. 
PICARD Excuse me. I have a... telephone call. 
Picard takes a few steps away, pulls the combadge out of his pants pocket, taps it. Ruby watches him a beat, then walks out of the room. 
PICARD Picard here. 
GEORDI'S COM VOICE Captain, we have a problem. I think you'd better get back here. 
PICARD I'm on my way. Picard out. 
Picard moves to Beverly. 
PICARD (sotto) I have to go back to the silo. Will you be all right? 
BEVERLY I'll be fine. (re: Cochrane) He's a different story. 
Beverly begins examining the medical equipment she'll have to work with as Picard exits... 
81   EXT. RESURRECTION CITY STREET - DAY                         81 
A short time later. Picard walking down the main street back toward the gates. People passing him, taking no notice of him...Picard's mind thinking ahead. He happens to glance down a side street, then he stops. 
82   NEW ANGLE                                                   82 
Looking down the side street. Ruby, the mysterious woman from the hospital, is walking along with a camera bag now slung over her shoulder. She stops for a moment as she passes the hulk of a burnt-out old hover car... stares at it...then pulls a home-made FUTURISTIC CAMERA out of her bag and snaps a picture of the car. She continues on her way. Picard is intrigued -- wonders about this woman and what it is she could be taking a picture of. Just then -- 
MAN'S VOICE Catch. 
Picard turns just in time to catch a small, metal canister with a screw-top. 
The man who threw it steps into view. It's LIEUTENANT SCRIMM. Scrimm is the head of the town's militia. While not a physically threatening man, there is a quietly disturbing quality about him which conveys an intelligence laced with a tightly reined volatility. He's wearing futuristic combat fatigues and always carries a sidearm. Before the war, Scrimm was probably one of the "survivalists" who used to be dismissed as radicals until their predictions of Armageddon came true. At the moment, Scrimm is presenting his friendliest face to Picard. 
SCRIMM (pleasant) Think you'll need that. 
Picard eyes the canister, not sure what to make of it. 
Worf and a large SECURITY DETACHMENT -- a dozen or so men and women -- are moving down the Corridor with grim looks on their faces. They are carrying new powerful- looking phaser rifles and other equipment. The feeling is of an elite combat squad heading for a dangerous mission. They stop at one point and Worf lifts up a DECKPLATE, exposing a large HATCH in the floor. Worf hits his combadge. 
WORF Worf to Bridge. We're in position. 
85   INT. BRIDGE                                                 85 
Riker in command, Troi nearby. Riker is standing at the security station looking at a monitor which displays a schematic graphic of the ship. The position of the security team is flashing -- we can see they are on Deck 46. 
RIKER This is the Bridge. I'm releasing the emergency force fields. 
He nods to Troi, who works a console. 
86   INT. CORRIDOR                                                86 
Worf and his team watch as the FORCEFIELD protecting the hatch flashes off. Worf reaches down and releases the hatch, which slides open with a soft whoosh. He glances at his men for a moment, then JUMPS down the hatch... 
87   INT. DECK 47 - CORRIDOR                                     87 
As Worf lands on his feet. The light is dim, no power on this deck, hard to see. He looks around warily for a moment, phaser at-the-ready, then activates his wrist beacon. We immediately notice that we can see Worf's breath -- it's freezing cold down here. He shines the light around the darkened corridor, then silently motions his arm for the others to follow. A beat, then we see the security officers start to drop into the corridor from the hatch above... 
88   NEW ANGLE - CORRIDOR                                        88 
As Worf's squad spreads out along the hall, weapons at- the-ready, everyone alert with fingers on the triggers. We see that the phaser rifles are equipped with their own light sources, intended to illuminate the target before you shoot at it. The Security Officers are constantly moving their lights back and forth through the chilly air. Worf gives hand signals -- holds up two fingers, then a fist, and points forward. 
Two Guards trot down the corridor about fifteen feet, stop, and take up firing positions... then two more members of the team run down, leap frog ahead of them and take positions further down the corridor. Classic military deployment. Worf starts scanning with a tricorder. 
WORF (hits combadge) Worf to Bridge. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Riker here. 
WORF There's a dampening field in place on this deck. Our tricorders are useless. 
The team continue to explore Deck 47. It's spooky, eerie, a sense of menace around every corner. They open doors, check room by room, section by section, still no sign of the Borg in the freezing cold darkness. 
90   ANGLE ON SECURITY GUARD                                     90 
The Corridor directly ahead has been stripped of wall, ceiling and deck panels -- all the normal decorative Enterprise sheathing is gone, revealing the circuitry and machinery of the ship itself. Unlike the rest of the corridors, there does appear to be POWER flowing through some of the conduits up ahead, and it gives off an eerie glow. 
We can also see that some of the machinery has been altered and changed -- not just the neat and orderly arrangement you'd expect to find behind bulkheads -- there's a sense of cross-circuitry, re-wiring, equipment being rearranged. Clearly, a lot of work has gone on in this area of the ship. Worf steps forward, examines the corridor closely. 
ENSIGN HAWK What the hell is going on? 
WORF Borg... 
Worf signals the team forward, and they slowly begin picking their way down the Borgified Corridor. It's not easy -- they have to choose their footing carefully as they walk through the maze of cables, circuits, and machinery... Ensign Hawk accidentally steps on some circuitry, which gives off a BEEP. The entire team suddenly whirls their lights and weapons on the unfortunate Ensign, who pales at their sudden attention. 
Worf looks irritated, then motions his team to continue their search. They continue making their way down the spooky corridor... and as they turn a corner... 
92   NEW ANGLE - ANOTHER CORRIDOR                                92 
where the machinery is now THICKER and more BORG-LIKE in appearance. Tubes and cabling hang down from the ceiling. If anything, it's even colder in here. The deeper they go, the worse it gets. We can now hear a low, sinister HUM of alien power. At the end of this corridor is the ENVIROMENTAL CONTROL ROOM, as seen earlier. The entire doorway is gone -- and a weird pulsing GLOW fills the room. Worf stops his team at the sight. From this vantage, we cannot see directly into the room, but clearly something is going on in there. 
Worf signals his men to spread out, and they take up positions around the Corridor, all weapons trained on Environmental Control. 
WORF Worf to Bridge. We're about to enter the Environmental Control Room. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Any sign of Data, or the Borg themselves? 
As Work and Riker continue talking, we MOVE TO Ensign Hawk, who is now the last man in the formation, covering the rear. He's shining his phaser-beacon into the empty darkness. He can't help looking back over his shoulder at the rest of the team and the distant Environmental Control Room -- that seems to be where the action is. As he turns, his beacon moves with him, throwing the Corridor behind them in and out of darkness. 
WORF (continuing) Negative. However, they've reconfigured the ODN network... and re-routed all power on this deck into Environmental Control. 
As Worf speaks, Ensign Hawk turns back, but this time when he shines his beacon into the darkness, something MOVES in the distance -- a shadow. The Ensign freezes, brings his rifle up. But did he see it, or was it his imagination? 
A tense beat as he waits, heart pounding... but nothing happens. On the wall next to his head we see what can only be described as a BIO-MECHANISTIC CABLE creeping out of the wall... which begins slowly heading for the Ensign's neck. Just as he begins to sense that something is happening behind him, the cable WHIPS OUT around his neck and YANKS him deep into the bed of circuitry in the blink of an eye -- the motion so fast we have trouble following it. 
Worf turns his head at the sound. 
WORF Stand by, Commander (to team) Where's Ensign Hawk? 
Everyone looks around, surprised that he's not there. Everyone is alert, keyed up. The tension is thick. Utter silence, except for the hum of the machinery and the frosty breathing of the team. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Worf? Is something wrong? 
WORF Something is very wrong, Commander. We're falling back. 
Worf gives hand signals for the team to move out. But just as they start to fall back, everything happens at once. 
93   BORG DRONES                                                 93 
EXPLODE OUT OF THE WALLS, CEILING AND FLOOR! What follows is a BLUR of action happening so fast and furious we never get a true sense of what's happening. 
A flurry of violence and motion and images: 
-- A snarling Borg face -- half-human, half-machine, a cybernetic nightmare. 
Picard considers, absently sticks his hand in his jacket pocket. He pulls out the canister of balm Scrimm gave him and tosses it onto the table. 
PICARD Could you reconstruct the throttle from a photograph like this... if that man wasn't blocking the view? 
Geordi thinks it over. 
GEORDI Maybe... (beat) Sure. Yeah. As long as I could get a clear look at the intake configuration. But so far, we haven't found any other photos. 
PICARD (staring at photos) If there are other photographs... I think I may know how to find them. 
CUT TO: 
100   INT. BORG HIVE                                             100 
It's a while later, and the Borg are making progress. Data is strapped to the table, PANELS open on his HEAD and CHEST. Three Borg drones are working methodically on his inner-circuitry. The jagged voice of the woman cuts in: 
WOMAN'S VOICE Your resistance is... illogical. To us, your neural net is simply another piece of technology. We will learn its secrets. 
Data stares at the murky ceiling. 
DATA Who are you? 
WOMAN'S VOICE I am the Borg. 
DATA That is a contradiction. The Borg act as a collective consciousness. There are no individuals. 
WOMAN'S VOICE I am the beginning... the end. I am the one who is many. I am the Borg. 
Out of the mist that hugs the top of the room DESCENDS the BORG QUEEN. 
She is unlike any of the Borg drones we've ever seen -- a humanoid female with conduits and tubes running out of her body. She has no legs. Her torso is SUSPENDED by a complex rig of CABLES and HYDRAULICS. Her face and upper-torso are much more humanoid, with the pasty- pale white of Borg flesh. Her EYES have a silvery glint to them. Her demeanor is seductive and sensual in contrast to the harsh, mechanical surroundings. She is an eerie blend of two worlds -- organic and mechanical. 
With the soft HISS of hydraulics, she LOWERS herself down to where her face is very close to that of Data's. Her features are almost angelic, but the silvery glint in her eyes betrays an inner-darkness. 
DATA You are the guiding intelligence behind the Borg...? 
BORG QUEEN Intelligence... ambition... desire... I bring order to chaos... 
She studies his face with a certain child-like quality. 
BORG QUEEN It's unfortunate we will have to destroy you to obtain the information we need. You are a... unique lifeform. (beat) Synthetic... and yet far more than a simple automaton. You have no idea how close to perfection you are. 
She stares at him intently, and we get the hint that her interest in Data may go beyond simple assimilation. She seems fascinated by him. Data picks up on this. 
DATA How do you define perfection? 
The Queen opens her arms slightly, clearly indicating herself. 
BORG QUEEN A blending of the organic and the synthetic. The highest form of life in the galaxy. 
Data eyes her, considering. 
DATA An interesting definition. But it is not one that applies to me. I am completely artificial. I have no organic components. 
She looks at him as a new thought crosses her mind. She might've just found the chink in Data's armor. 
BORG QUEEN Have you ever wondered what it's like to have flesh? 
DATA It is impossible to imagine sensations for which I have no frame of reference. 
She smiles. 
BORG QUEEN That... can change. 
The Queen looks to the three Borg drones and gives them a silent command. The drones immediately stop working on Data's open panels... and shift their attention to his right ARM. One of the drones tears off the sleeve on Data's uniform, exposing his bare arm. Another then uses a small cutting device to SLICE OFF the synthetic skin from Data's arm. As Data prepares himself for the worst... 
101   INT. ENTERPRISE CORRIDOR                                   101 
THREE armored SECURITY GUARDS with phaser rifles run into view, hit a control panel on the wall. A giant EMERGENCY BULKHEAD comes SLAMMING down, cutting off the rest of the corridor. 
The security guards turn to run down the hall, but then there is a high-pitched shriek of wrenching metal. They drop to the deck and take combat stances. 
GUARD #1 Set phasers to rotating modulation! 
They make adjustments to their weapons just as the bulkhead doors EXPLODE INWARD in a blinding flash. The guards shield themselves against the fire and debris... looks up just in time to see the swift and lethal shapes of the BORG jumping through the smashed bulkhead, racing down the corridor toward them. The guards FIRE, and when they do the PHASER BLASTS alternate color -- red, blue, green, purple, orange -- a staccato of colors as the phasers shift frequency. 
The phaser blasts TAKE DOWN a few of the BORG... but then we see the distinctive PERSONAL FORCEFIELDS of the other Borg begin to compensate, and the phasers no longer affect them. 
GUARD #1 That's it, they've adjusted -- fall back! 
They turn to run but BORG PHASER FIRE lances out from the Borg soldiers and RIPS them apart. 
CUT TO: 
102   INT. BRIDGE                                                102 
RUBY "Money." So you can get dome money... 
PICARD I can try. 
RUBY You'd have to try real hard. No one's used currency in over ten years. What are you, from another planet? 
Picard hesitates, smiles at her, tries to laugh it off. 
PICARD No... but sometimes I feel that way. (beat) What I meant was, I'd be willing to trade for the photographs. 
RUBY Trade. Okay. The photographs... for a straight answer. (beat) Who are you? And how do you know Zephram? 
PICARD I'm an old friend... I met him when he was doing his undergraduate work at Cornell back in -- 
RUBY (cuts him off) 'Fraid not. 
Ruby walks past him with the X-ray... 
106   INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS                        106 
Picard follows Ruby out into the corridor. She has a satisfied smile on her face -- it's not easy to put one over on this woman. And the truth is, she's enjoying Picard's frustration. As they walk along... 
PICARD What? 
RUBY (casual) You're lying. 
PICARD What makes you say that? 
RUBY You're not someone who lies very easily... so it's obvious when you do... at least to me. 
PICARD Are you always sucha good judge of character? 
She stops, turns, looks at him. 
RUBY Always. 
Ruby turns and walks off. Picard follows her, doggedly determined to get those photos... 
107   INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT                     107 
Beverly is holding the X-ray glass Ruby made up to the light, as the Doctor seen earlier looks on. 
BEVERLY The occipital fracture is widening... we're going to have to fuse the bones... 
DOCTOR I'm a little worried about some of these bone fragments. If they move any closer to the brain, we could be looking at a hemorrhage. 
As Beverly and the Doctor examine the X-ray, we MOVE TO Ruby, who's looking down at Cochrane. He's still in bed and on a respirator. She smoothes his hair with affection. Picard stands on the other side of the bed, watching her. 
PICARD Were the two of you... involved? 
RUBY No... not like you and Doctor Crusher used to be. 
PICARD (surprised) How did you know about that? 
Ruby looks at him with a smile. 
RUBY I didn't. 
Her smile widens, and then she leaves the bed to join the Doctor and Beverly. Picard shakes his head and smiles after her -- chagrinned and amused at the same time. 
RUBY (to Doctor) We can't take any more X-rays until I can mix up a new batch of the silver halide. 
DOCTOR Can you do it tonight? We may have to operate. 
RUBY Sure. It'll be ready by morning. 
Ruby turns and heads for the door. Picard moves after her. 
PICARD Ruby... I need to talk to you about those photographs. It's very important. 
RUBY I'm sure it is. But it'll have to wait until tomorrow. 
PICARD It can't wait until tomorrow... 
RUBY Too bad. (beat) Besides, it'll give you all night to think up a new set of lies. 
She flashes him that smile again, then darts out the door. Picard is left frustrated -- he knows that he can't let it go at that... 
CUT TO: 
108   INT. ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING                              108 
Worf and a team of TEN SECURITY GUARDS are preparing for battle. They're setting up large, heavy-duty phaser equivalents of machine guns --  big, mean-looking weapons on tripods. There are two of these weapons aimed at each entrance to Engineering. The Security Officers are strapping on body armor, checking weapons, building makeshift barricades over each of the doors. 
Worf is in command, directing the action. 
DATA I do not know what you are referring to. 
BORG QUEEN That's because you haven't been properly... stimulated yet. 
A WHOOSH of hydraulic power signals another movement by the Borg Queen. She slithers through the air and down slightly, so that she is on the same level as Data. She looks at the cybernetic shell that is encasing Data's right arm, which OPENS at her silent command and moves away... 
We can now see that all of the skin has been removed from Data's right arm, showing the INNER-WORKINGS of his android limb -- circuitry and servos, etc. But on the top of the mechanical forearm there is something new -- a small PATCH of HUMAN FLESH held in place with various nasty-looking hooks and clamps and small tubes carrying blood. It's a delicate, fragile piece of organic life on an ugly, mechanical surface. 
Data looks down at the patch of flesh with a little puzzlement. 
BORG QUEEN (re: flesh) Do you know what this is, Data? 
DATA It would appear that you are attempting to graft organic skin onto my endo-skeletal structure. 
BORG QUEEN What a cold description... for such a beautiful gift. 
She smiles slightly, utterly confident. She leans her face in close to Data's still immobilized right arm. 
117   EXTREME CLOSE UP - DATA'S ARM                              117 
We are so close to the patch of flesh that we can see the individual hairs. The Borg Queen's LIPS move into frame, and she EXHALES a long and sensuous breath. We see GOOSE BUMPS form on the skin, and the hairs stand straight up in response. 
118   NEW ANGLE                                                  118 
As Data's eyes widen and he looks down at the skin in surprise -- this is a sensation he's never felt before. The Borg Queen sees the look on his face and smiles. 
BORG QUEEN Was that good for you? 
Data can barely describe the sensation. But clearly, it was pleasurable. 
DATA It was... interesting. 
He looks at her. 
DATA Do it again... please. 
As she smiles... 
CUT TO: 
119   EXT. RUBY'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                  119 
A tiny, single-story house -- one or two rooms at the most, in serious need of repair and maintenance. No yard. The house sits on dirt. The nearest other structure is at least a hundred yards away. A very solitary place. The windows are dark, painted over from the inside. 
Some large pieces of exotic-looking EQUIPMENT are sitting off the front porch. 
After a beat, the front door opens, letting out a soft, feeble light. 
Ruby steps out onto the porch, carrying a gallon size plastic jug. The light from the house now lights the equipment a little, giving us a better view. There's a contraption that appears to be a PUMP of some kind, with a funnel on top, spigot at the bottom, and several stages of filters and tubing in between. Ruby sets the jug underneath the spigot... then sits down for a moment on the edge of the porch. She takes a breath and runs a hand through her hair, stretches her back, trying to work out some of the kinks in her neck. An exhausting day. 
120   PICARD                                                     120 
is watching her intently from afar. He's concealed behind a supporting beam of one the town's many WINDMILLS. He's in shadow, hidden from Ruby's view. 
121   RUBY                                                       121 
pulls off her jacket. she's wearing a pull-over shirt... and in one motion she pulls off the shirt, revealing only a tee-shirt underneath, sleeves torn off long ago. She stands up... kicks off her boots... undoes her pants... and begins sliding the jeans off her hips... 
122   PICARD                                                     122 
is surprised. Glances around, a little awkward. This really isn't why he came out here. 
123   RUBY                                                       123 
kicks aside the jeans. She's now down to tee-shirt and panties. She grabs the bottom of the tee-shirt... pulls it off... 
124   PICARD                                                     124 
doesn't want to look, but can't help himself... 
125   RUBY                                                       125 
moves to the side of the porch... and steps into a large ENVIROMENTAL SUIT, a bulky one-piece with gloves and helmet attached. 
126   PICARD                                                     126 
is a little relieved... keeps watching... 
127   RUBY                                                       127 
has now encased herself in the thick, rubbery suit... pulls over a HELMET with a gas mask. She walks over to an OIL DRUM marked with a distinctive BIO-HAZARD SYMBOL. She carefully opens the lid... takes a metal pitcher... reaches down into the drum and scoops out a pitcher-full of TOXIC WASTE. She closes the lid, walks over to the pump-filter contraption. She pours the sludge-like waste into the funnel...primes the pump... makes a few adjustments to the filters... and then turns the spigot... 
After a beat, a trickle of CLEAR LIQUID starts to come out of the spigot. Ruby steps back and pulls off the helmet. 
128   PICARD                                                     128 
Picard is starting to get angry. 
PICARD Why are you being so difficult? All I'm asking for is to look at one of the photographs. It'll take five minutes. 
RUBY And all I'm asking for is the truth. That would take five minutes. (beat) For all I know, you caused the explosions at the silo... and now you're trying to steal Zephram's ship. 
PICARD I am not a thief... 
Ruby's had enough -- her temper flares and she gets off the couch, takes a threatening step toward Picard. 
RUBY No, you're a petty burglar and a liar... (beat) You're no friend of Zephram's. He is a great man. He's not like you or me or any of the other zombies walking around this town. 
Picard jumps in with a quiet, forceful quality: 
PICARD No. He's a man with vision. He can see beyond the problems that surround us. He knows there's a better future out there for everyone... a future where crime, poverty and war are things of the past... a future where we reach out and seek our destiny in the stars. (beat) I believe in that future, too, Ruby. I believe in it in every fiber of my being. And I'm telling you... if we don't launch that warp ship tomorrow, there's a very good chance that future will never happen. 
She eyes him for a moment -- and we're not sure if his words have had any effect. 
Ruby still has her doubts, but decides to go with her gut...and finally hands him the photographs. Picard glances through them -- his expression tells us the photo he needs is in there. 
PICARD You won't regret this. 
They share a look... and then Picard turns and walks off into the night. Ruby watches him go... and we can see on her face a confused jumble of mixed emotions. Something about that man has touched her... 
135   NIGHT SCPOE POV                                            135 
A telescopic, green and white image of Picard walking away from Ruby's home. 
136   LIEUTENANT SCRIMM                                          136 
is watching Picard through a set of night vision binoculars, perched on the roof of a nearby building. He frowns, wondering what Picard is up to... 
CUT TO: 
137   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE DEFLECTOR DISH                     137 
The giant DEFLECTOR ARRAY at the front of the ship -- a giant, round, bowl-shaped array used for communications and shielding. As we watch, FOUR HATCHES OPEN surrounding the dish and BORG start to emerge from the interior of the ship and CRAWL OUT on the hull. The Borg do not need pressure suits or breathing equipment -- they crawl around the hull with ease and onto the deflector dish... 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: 
138   INT. ENTERPRISE BRIDGE - VIEWSCREEN                        138 
Where Riker, Troi, Worf and N.D.s are watching this image on the Viewscreen. 
RIKER What are they doing? 
WORF They appear to be modifying the deflector dish. 
TROI To do what? If they wanted a weapon, they could've taken over a phaser bank or torpedo bay... 
RIKER Deflector dish... why the deflector dish...? 
WORF It doesn't make sense. The deflector is only used for shielding and long range sensors... 
Riker stares at the screen... notices something. 
RIKER Computer -- magnify grid twenty- one alpha. 
The image on the Viewscreen ZOOMS IN to a specific point on the deflector dish, giving us a clear view of two Borg who have opened a gigantic panel on the dish. They appear top be modifying power conduits in some fashion. 
WORF They're re-routing the deflector power conduits... 
RIKER Computer -- thermal enhancement. 
The image now is overlaid with an INFRARED VIEW of what they're doing. The power conduits are glowing bright red, very hot -- we can see the heat signature travel back behind the dish and connect to a corkscrew-shaped coil, which is pulsing. 
RIKER They're connecting the conduits to subspace communications... 
WORF (realizing) They're converting the deflector dish into an antennae... 
TROI They may be trying to send a message to the other Borg...the Borg in this time period... 
WORF What kind of message? 
RIKER (thinking) If it was me... I'd say "attack Earth now... in the 21st century... they'll be too strong in the 24th." 
They think about this for a moment as they watch the Borg swarming on the deflector array. 
WORF We have to stop them from sending that message. 
RIKER Agreed. Options? 
WORF Destroy the deflector dish. 
TROI Can we aim our dorsal phasers at it? 
168   EXT. SPACE - ENTERPRISE - BATTLE ON THE HULL               168 
Riker in the torpedo tube, frantically working. He begins to physically MOVE the torpedo tube itself like he's moving the barrel of a huge cannon... as he struggles to aim it toward the huge deflector dish... 
169   WORF AND THE SECURITY GUARDS                               169 
are about fifty feet away from Riker. From their prone positions, they try to keep the Borg at bay, BLASTING them off the hull one by one. They have taken cover behind some outcroppings of equipment on the hull of the ship. The Borg have to cross an open field of metal to get to them, making then easy targets. 
Suddenly the Borg change tactics. From the deflector dish high above them, Borg begin LAUNCHING THEMSELVES directly at the Starfleet Officers, jumping off the dish and flying through the vacuum of space like paratroopers. This tips the balance. There are too many targets to defend from above and below. One of the flying Borg CRASHES into a Security Guard and a vicious hand-to-hand FIGHT erupts. The Borg SLASHES the guard's pressure suit, which DEPRESSURIZES killing the man instantly. Worf FIRES  a phaser blast into the Borg, knocking him off the hull and into space. 
Worf turns to Riker. 
WORF Commander, you're five minutes are up! 
170   RIKER                                                      170 
swings the torpedo tube into place, aiming it at the deflector dish. He hits a control on the side of the tube... and a QUANTUM TORPEDO automatically slides up from below and LOCKS INTO position in the tube, like a panel on the torpedo and begins working on the circuitry. 
171   INT. BRIDGE                                                171 
Troi in command, watching the VIEWSCREEN, which shows a different angle of the battle on the hull. 
COM OFFICER The Borg are charging the subspace emitters. 
TROI How long until they can send a message? 
COM OFFICER About seven or eight minutes. 
TROI Computer -- this is Commander Deanna Troi. Initiate self- destruct in six minutes, thirty seconds. Authorization Troi, gamma six five. Enable. 
COMPUTER VOICE Countdown underway. Self-destruct in six minutes, twenty-five seconds... 
Monitors all around the Bridge show the countdown. 
172   ANGLE ON A MONITOR                                         172 
which says "SELF-DESTRUCT IN 6:24...6:23...6:22..." 
CUT TO: 
173   INT. MISSILE SILO - CONTROL ROOM                           173 
The Sergeant is examining one of the monitors. The display says "LIFT-OFF, T-MINUS 50 seconds...49... 
SERGEANT No good, sir. They're on internal power. We can't stop the launch from here. 
SCRIMM (re: blast doors) What about these doors? 
PRIVATE They're locked down tight from the inside. 
SERGEANT And those doors were made to withstand a nuclear attack. 
Scrimm looks frustrated for a moment...then turns his attention to Ruby. 
174   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       174 
As before. 
GEORDI One minute to launch. 
SCRIMM'S COM VOICE Mister Picard... this is Lieutenant Scrimm. I'm going to have to insist that you shut down the launch. You see, I know what you're doing... and I'm not going to just stand by and let it happen. (beat) Stop the launch, or I'll kill every one of your people out here... and I think you know who'll be first. 
As Picard reacts in shock... 
INTERCUT: 
175   INT. CONTROL ROOM                                          175 
Scrimm is now holding Ruby by the arm. He shoves the com headset to her mouth. 
SCRIMM Say hello... 
Ruby is scared, but trying to keep it together. 
RUBY (to com) Jean-Luc... remember that future we talked about? It's all that matters... (beat) Launch the ship. 
Picard reacts to her voice, but keeps working the controls, trying to concentrate. Scrimm draws his gun. 
SCRIMM Go ahead -- launch it. Ruby will be here when you get back... but she won't have a whole lot to say. 
176   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       176 
Geordi and Picard exchange a tense look. Picard struggles. It's a difficult moment -- what does he do? The countdown clock is approaching 15 seconds...14... 
Everything hangs in the balance -- Ruby's life, the future of the Earth, Picard's feelings, his duty... 
ENSIGN (off console) Tractor beam engaged. We've got 'em, Commander. 
TROI Prismify the beam. Get rid of that Borg. 
186   EXT. SPACE - RIKER & BORG                                  186 
As the tractor beam from the Enterprise SPLITS in two and separates Riker from the Borg. The second beam disappears, throwing the Borg off into space, while Riker is towed back toward the hull of the ship. 
187   ON RIKER                                                   187 
As the beam moves him back toward the ship. 
188   RIKER'S POV                                                188 
A dizzying view of the stars and the Earth as he is pulled through space. 
189   RIKER                                                      189 
Closes his eyes, fighting off waves of nausea. 
RIKER (to himself) Don't look at the stars... don't look at the stars... 
CUT TO: 
190   INT. MISSILE SILO - CONTROL ROOM                           190 
Picard still stalling for time. 
PICARD (firm) There is no invasion... 
SCRIMM Wrong answer, Mister Picard. Try again. 
He shoves his gun against Ruby's head. The tension rises a notch. 
PICARD All right. You want the truth... (beat) The Vulcans... are highly intelligent aliens. 
191   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       191 
Geordi working the tricorder... he can hear their conversation in the other room through an open com channel... 
SCRIMM'S COM VOICE Aliens... that's what I thought. From where... Canada? 
The tricorder BEEPS and he smiles... 
192   INT. CONTROL ROOM                                          192 
As before. 
PICARD From another planet. (beat) Oh, I almost forgot... they have green blood and pointed ears. 
SCRIMM (skeptical) And you know all this... because you're a space-man too... 
PICARD I'm afraid you've caught me. I am a space-man. 
Scrimm smirks at him -- what gall this guy has. But Ruby seems to discern some deeper meaning in Picard's words. She frowns in puzzlement. 
RUBY (quiet) Truth... he's telling the truth... 
Picard looks at Ruby, and at that moment something on a console behind her catches his eye: a LIGHT on Beverly's SURGICAL TRANSPORTER is now FLASHING. No one else notices. 
SCRIMM You're an entertaining man, Mister Picard. But you're also full of shit. 
Scrimm cocks back the hammer on the pistol he's holding to Ruby's head. The following happens very quickly: 
-- Picard reaches out his hand, trying to stop Scrimm. 
PICARD Now, Geordi! 
-- The gun in Scrimm's hand DEMATERIALIZES. Scrimm reacts in shock. 
-- Instantly, the gun REMATERIALIZES in Picard's outstretched hand. He quickly pushes the barrel to Scrimm's forehead. 
PICARD Actually, you're full of shit. 
Everyone is in the room stunned by what's happened. Picard takes charge before anyone can recover. 
PICARD (continuing) Now, tell your men to drop their weapons. 
There's a beat, but then Scrimm sees he has little choice. 
SCRIMM Weapons... down. 
The other militia soldiers drop their weapons, which are quickly picked up by Beverly and a Starfleet N.D. Picard hands his gun to Lange, who covers Scrimm with it. 
Ruby turns to Picard. 
As the Phoenix rockets into space... 
209   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       209 
As before. 
GEORDI Three... two... one... mark! 
210   EXT. SPACE - THE PHOENIX                                   210 
The rocket booster SHUTS DOWN as the ship leaves Earth's orbit and coasts on its momentum. After a beat, the first stage booster separates from the ship and DROPS AWAY, leaving three-quarters of the ship in space. 
211   INT. BORG HIVE                                             211 
CLOSE ON DATA, head tilted back, eyes closed, smiling...a few droplets of WATER fall from above onto his face. He smiles wider, reveling in the sensation. 
212   WIDER                                                      212 
Data is still restrained on the table, but a conduit has been placed above his head and is dripping condensation onto his face. Data is now a completely new being. His entire BODY is now made of HUMAN FLESH. It's a shocking sight -- for anyone who ever wondered what Data would look like human, we're now getting our first look. 
213   THE BORG QUEEN                                             213 
DESCENDS from her nest in the ceiling. She watches Data for a moment... rubs the moisture into his face. 
BORG QUEEN A Borg in all but name. 
Data, although clearly enraptured with his new sensations and feelings still struggles to maintain his own sense of identity. 
DATA (weak) I am... grateful for what you have given me. But I still do not wish to be assimilated. 
BORG QUEEN A universe of sensation is waiting for you... don't you want to explore it... with me? 
To his surprise, Data finds that he is becoming drawn to this strange creature and all that she can offer him. 
DATA Yes... 
BORG QUEEN Then take the final step... give me the Enterprise... and we can be together... always. 
He struggles, but ultimately there's only one answer. 
DATA No... I cannot. 
Without taking her eyes away from Data, she reaches out a hand and touches a control on a nearby console. The color of Data's FACE turns an ASHEN GRAY --  as though the blood has drained from his skin. Another droplet of moisture falls and hits him on the cheek -- but this time his eyes widen in shock. 
The sensation of human feeling is gone. 
BORG QUEEN I've deactivated the sensory inputs. That flesh on your body is just meat, now. 
DATA No... no, please... you cannot... 
She moves in close on him, an edge creeping into her voice: 
BORG QUEEN You must give me what I want... now. Without the deflector dish, we can no longer send for an early invasion. We must assimilate Earth ourselves. I need this ship. 
She hits the control, and the COLOR returns to his face. Data gasps -- filled with feeling once again. The Borg Queen runs her hand across his cheek -- her attitude seductive and affectionate once again. 
BORG QUEEN Isn't it better like this...? 
DATA Yes... but the Enterprise... my duty... 
BORG QUEEN ... is to yourself. Don't make me hurt you again... 
She touches the control again. Data is shocked back into his cold, android self. He's like a heroin addict being denied his "high" with the flick of a switch. 
DATA No... no, it's so... empty... please... give it back... I need it... 
BORG QUEEN And I need to control this ship. Let me into your mind. 
Data struggles, anguished... we've never seen him like this before... completely beaten down... finally, he nods. The Borg Queen touches the control again. A sharp intake of breath as the feeling returns to Data. And the Queen kisses him on the mouth. 
This time, he responds eagerly, throwing himself into the emotion of the moment. She pulls back a little, looks at him softly, passionately. Data stares back at her, breathless -- he seems to be completely in her thrall. 
DATA In order to access my neural net... you will need to create a positronic interface. (beat) I will tell you how. 
OFF the Borg Queen's smile of victory... 
CUT TO: 
214   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       214 
As before. Picard and Geordi work the control in silence for a few moments. The ship is floating in space, now a good distance from Earth. 
GEORDI Ready to deploy the warp nacelles. 
PICARD As they used to say... all systems are go. 
shows an exterior space shot. The image rapidly ZOOMS IN on the distant PHOENIX. The ship is racing through space. 
BORG QUEEN (reacts, to Data) Give me helm control. 
Data nods. Another console lights up. She moves to work it herself... 
223   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                223 
As the ship turns and begins moving off at impulse speed. 
224   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       224 
As before, Picard is now steering the ship with a 21st century JOYSTICK CONTROL. The ship is moving faster and faster, trembling now, a ROAR building. 
PICARD Passing one-half light speed. The starboard nacelle's running a little hot... 
GEORDI I'm on it... 
The CABIN shakes a little. 
GEORDI The inertial dampers are having trouble compensating... I don't think Cochrane built this thing for comfort. 
PICARD Speed -- two hundred, seventy-five thousand kilometers per second. 
WHOOSH! A weird DISTORTION passes through the cabin like a wave, then vanishes. 
GEORDI There's no temporal shielding in here! We're starting to pick up relativistic effects! 
PICARD One minute to warp threshold... 
225   EXT. SPACE                                                 225 
The warp ship WHIPS by... and then a moment later, the ENTERPRISE ROARS into view, chasing the tiny ship. 
226   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       226 
Geordi glances out the window... does a double-take and looks back up in surprise... 
GEORDI Captain, the Enterprise! 
PICARD (taps combadge) Picard to Enterprise. (beat) Picard to Enterprise -- do you read me? 
No response. 
PICARD Their com system must still be down. 
GEORDI Well, I feel a whole lot better with them out there. We may need some help. 
227   INT. BORG HIVE                                             227 
As before, the Queen floating above the helm control console. The warp ship is on the monitor, getting closer. 
DATA I have repaired the weapons array. Phasers are on-line. 
A floating CROSSHAIR appears on the monitor showing the warp ship. The Queen works the console. The crosshair moves, but refuses to lock onto the warp ship. She frowns. 
BORG QUEEN The targeting lock isn't working. 
Data looks puzzled. 
DATA I do not understand. The optical data network has been repaired, and all systems are functioning. 
The Queen works furiously, still can't get the crosshairs to lock onto the ship. 
BORG QUEEN Your diagnostics are in error. I need weapons. 
DATA (thinks) The problem must lie in the interface between Starfleet and Borg technology. Your console may not be configured to handle the data flow. 
BORG QUEEN Can you configure it? 
DATA I believe so. 
BORG QUEEN Do it. 
She hits a series of Borg controls on a nearby console... and the restraints holding Data to the table are RELEASED. Two Borg drones move to him... as he stands up and heads for the Queen, the specialized cable still attached to his head... 
228   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                228 
closing in on the tiny warp ship. It's like a shark chasing a guppy. 
229   INT. PHOENIX COCKPIT                                       229 
Ship SHAKING with power and acceleration. 
PICARD Approaching light speed... 
Data throws off the grotesque form. The Borg Queen carcass writhes and claws at the air. She speaks in a flat, mechanical voice. 
BORG QUEEN (fritzed) Data... 
Data reaches out with one hand... grabs the metal spinal column just below the brain stem... and SNAPS IT IN TWO. The blinking brain stem FRITZES OUT. 
241   INT. CORRIDOR                                              241 
Two Borg Drones moving down the hall suddenly stop... twitch... the blinkies on their bodies GO OUT... and they both FALL OVER DEAD. Their connection to their Queen severed. 
242   INT. JEFFERIES TUBE                                        242 
Another Borg Drone reacts... lights out... slumps over DEAD. 
243   INT. BORG HIVE                                             243 
Data releases the remains of the dead Borg Queen. He leans back a little, as though exhausted by his remarkable experience. CAMERA PULLS BACK, emphasizing the loneliness of this smoking, scorched android sitting alone in the ruins of the Borg Hive... 
CUT TO: 
244   EXT. MISSILE SILO - DAY                                    244 
The missile doors now open, the ground badly scorched from the launch. Scrimm and his militia guards are sitting on the ground, while Lange and the other Starfleet N.D. keep a watchful eye on them. Cochrane is sitting against a rock, while Beverly checks him over. Ruby is pacing, lost in thought... 
PICARD'S VOICE Isn't anyone going to say welcome back? 
Everyone looks up to see -- 
245   PICARD AND GEORDI                                          245 
standing a few feet away, tired but triumphant. 
BEVERLY Did it work? 
Picard nods. Beverly, Lange and the N.D. look relieved. Ruby takes a few steps toward Picard. 
246   COCHRANE                                                   246 
smiles up at Geordi. 
COCHRANE Mister La Forge... now I'd like to shake your hand. 
Geordi smiles and walks over to him. 
247   PICARD AND RUBY                                            247 
stop a few feet away from each other, their eyes locked. They drink in sight of each other... there's an undercurrent of unspoken feelings and words. She smiles... he smiles back. A satisfying moment. 
PICARD (V.O.) Captain's log, March 3rd, 2063. The voyage of the Phoenix was a success... again. 
CUT TO: 
248   EXT. RESURRECTION CITY - NIGHT                             248 
Townspeople along the Main Street. A sense of urgency -- something's going on. 
PICARD (V.O.) And it appears the Vulcan ship has detected the warp signature and is now on its way to Earth. 
Suddenly something in the night sky catches their attention. A BRIGHT LIGHT is moving down towards the city. We now realize this is what people are reacting to... 
249   JUST OUTSIDE OF TOWN                                       249 
Just a hundred yards beyond the city limits we see the massive VULCAN SCOUT SHIP SETTLING down onto the ground. Dust flying everywhere. Windmill blades spinning wildly from the exhaust. 
250   THE TOWNSPEOPLE                                            250 
squinting into the wind, trying to make out what's happening... 
251   NEW ANGLE - ON A HILLTOP                                   251 
A good distance away, but with a good view of the entire scene. Riker, Worf, Beverly, Troi and Geordi watching from a distance as the Vulcan ship LANDS. 
252   JUST OUTSIDE OF TOWN                                       252 
Picard, Ruby and a bandaged, but much healthier Zephram Cochrane watching the landing. People from town are surging around them. Everyone is shocked and amazed at what they're seeing. Picard watches with satisfaction -- this is the moment he's been waiting for. 
Cochrane and Ruby are particularly awestruck. 
253   THE VULCAN SHIP                                            253 
settles, engines whining down... dust settling. 
254   PICARD                                                     254 
moves to Cochrane, takes him gently by the arm. 
RUBY I don't care if you're from France or Venus... just take me with you. 
PICARD That's impossible. 
RUBY Why? 
PICARD This may be hard for you to understand... but I'm duty-bound not to interfere with you, or anyone else here... any more than is absolutely necessary. 
RUBY You've been interfering with my life ever since I met you. (with meaning) Don't stop now. 
Picard struggles... he doesn't want to do this, but he's torn between his heart and his duty. 
PICARD Ruby... I'm sorry. (remembering his words to Beverly) But our fates lie along different paths. 
A long, difficult moment... then he lets her go... turns and starts walking off into the night. She stands where she is, watching him go with tears in her eyes... 
Picard hits his combadge. 
PICARD Picard to Enterprise. One to... 
He stops where he is. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Riker here. Captain, we didn't get your whole transmission. 
Picard turns, looks back at Ruby. Their eyes meet... and he makes the decision. 
PICARD To hell with fate. 
RIKER'S COM VOICE Say again, Captain? 
He starts walking towards her. She sees him coming... starts running to him. She throws herself into his arms and he holds her close. They kiss. A magical moment, then... 
PICARD Enterprise. Two to beam up. 
They DEMATERIALIZE holding each other tight... 
264   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                264 
moving out of Earth orbit... 
265   INT. BRIDGE                                                265 
Riker, Worf, Troi, N.D.s. Picard ENTERS with Ruby. Everyone reacts to seeing her there. Ruby stays in the Turbolift, staring around the Bridge in amazement. Picard takes her hand and leads her out onto the Bridge. 
PICARD How's Mister Data? 
Riker glances at Ruby uneasily. 
RIKER He's in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher says he can be repaired... but we have to wait until we... 
He glances at Ruby again, awkward. But Picard finishes his thought. 
PICARD Return to our own time? 
RIKER Yes, sir. 
PICARD Then make it so. Have you determined how to recreate the temporal vortex? 
Picard sits in his chair. Riker hesitates. 
RIKER Yes, sir. But Captain... are we... all going back? 
PICARD Unless you'd like to stay. 
RIKER No, sir. 
Ruby stands stock-still, staring at Worf. Worf looks up at her with a Klingon smile -- teeth and all. 
Ruby manages a weak smile in return, then moves off to stand next to Picard. 
RIKER Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge... initiate the temporal vortex. 
266   EXT. SPACE - THE ENTERPRISE                                266 
moving through space... and then the TEMPORAL VORTEX forms directly ahead of it, as seen before. The ship ENTERS the vortex... 
267   EXT. SPACE - THE 24TH CENTURY                              267 
The Enterprise EXITS the VORTEX and into Earth orbit. 
268   INT. BRIDGE                                                268 
As before. 
WORF Incoming transmission from Starfleet Command. Admiral Hayes. 
