STATION WEST 
Written by 
Frank Fenton & Winston Miller 
Based on a novel by 
Luke Short 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
JULY 22, 1947 
EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - DAY 
FADE IN 
The sky is pure blue, exquisitely blemished by huge cumulus clouds, floating lazily. A single bird sails past. From the sky the CAMERA MOVES TO earth. Here, too, all is tranquil. The trees, bright green in the sunlight, move only to the slight but constant breeze. Now the CAMERA MOVES DOWN, revealing a wagon to which is hitched a team of horses beside the road. The wagon is at an awkward angle, but upright. It is wedged between two rocks where the horses have pulled it as they tried to reach some forage. Its seat is empty. In the bed of the wagon several sacks lie, bearing the legend: 
From: Argus Mine - Rock Pass To: U.S. Assay Office San Francisco 
The sacks are empty and slashed as by a knife. The ropes that bound them are cleanly severed. The disorder in the wagon indicates haste. Two horses are hitched to it, munching grass or the high leaves of a tree overhead. All that is odd or unnatural is that the reins have fallen askew and trail the ground. 
Now the CAMERA MOVES AWAY and ALONG tracks made by the wagon when it left the road. ON THE ROAD two horses stand. These are saddled, but riderless. The rifle holsters are empty. 
CAMERA MOVES TO the ground. There on the road lies the rifle. The dust is slightly blowing across it, moved by the persistent summery little breeze. From the rifle, the CAMERA MOVES ON A LITTLE and STOPS ABRUPTLY ON the sprawled dead figure of a soldier, then another, face down in the road. 
CLOSE SHOT of the dead soldiers, as the CAMERA HOLDS ON them. Near the hand of one a revolver lies, the fine dust coating it. Dust blowing over the uniforms, as though seeking to hide the shame of a murder. As it blows over their still figures, the SOUND of BIRDS coming over: 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
ROCK PASS - NIGHT 
This is a western mining town of the Eighties that has mushroomed up around a gold strike. On the streets prospectors and miners mingle with merchants. As the CAMERA PICKS UP the scene, a lumber wagon passes, bearing logs, a ten team wagon, its trailer filled with ore from the stamp mills and bearing the legend: ARGUS MINE. A stage coach comes in as we: 
DISSOLVE 
INT. HOTEL - NIGHT 
On the hotel clerk, as he sits behind the desk, playing a guitar and singing pensively the ballad of the story. As he sings, JOHN HAVEN, newly arrived on the stagecoach, walks in, gazes at the clerk with a slight smile, finding the clerk completely indifferent to the arrival of anybody, at last leaves the bag and saunters out. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. SALOON - NIGHT 
As Haven leaves the hotel and has reached the saloon, a well- lighted, plush-looking spot, illumined by kerosene flares. Sticking a pipe in his mouth, Haven saunters in. 
INT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - EVENING 
It is a huge elaborate room, lit by overhead chandeliers. A long mahogany bar runs the length of it. To one side there is a big stove and the gambling tables. Beyond can be seen pool tables in an alcove. To another side, a man grinds away at a piano. A stairway near the end of the bar leads to an upper floor. The place is crowded and noisy with people. Haven saunters towards the dice table, pauses, watches; he is looking the crowd over carefully -- missing no detail of the place or the people in it. When his turn comes, he picks up the dice, bets all over the place -- on the line, on the odds, on the seven, then on the come, the hard way, etc. His point is eight. 
STICKMAN Eight the hard way! Pay the line! 
Haven bets again, doubling all over the table. 
STICKMAN Seven a winner. 
Players glance at the newcomer. Prince appears from nowhere, standing behind the stickman, watching. Prince is slender, black-haired, handsome and impassive. Haven throws again. Stellman, an Army officer, watches curiously. There is a little rising murmur as Haven tosses another natural. He does it without enthusiasm or any lost movement. The bettors get down on him. Prince touches the stickman's arm; the man stands aside and Prince takes his place with the stick. Prince tosses the dice back to Haven. Haven's eyes are fixed on him. With a little smile, Haven throws the dice to the next man, picks up his winnings. 
HAVEN No, thanks... 
His eyes meet Prince's again and then he turns away, Prince's gaze following him curiously, Stellman looks at Prince. 
STELLMAN Know him? 
PRINCE No. Why? 
STELLMAN He just seems kind of free with that money. 
CAMERA FOLLOWS Haven, as still smiling slightly, he heads towards the bar, searching the faces of the crowd as he goes. Two miners are squared off for a fight and Haven, going his way, walks between them, very indifferent, not even glancing back at the SOUND of scuffle behind him. 
AT THE BAR - Haven alone is not watching the fight. All the others have turned to see it; even the barman is busy watching. But Haven's eyes are resting on the figure of a woman now at the piano, singing. Softly, as if to herself and for her own enjoyment. He is near the end of the bar and near the piano, and since no one else listens to her at this moment, she sings, half smiling, directly for him, and then, self-consciously, she stops and turns to sit at a table, as Haven watches her. Behind them the fight is being stopped and Charlie's eyes follow the huge bouncer, Mick Marion, as he drags the offenders out to the door and the street. All is as usual. The bartender is back at work. As Haven turns, he finds that the place beside him is now occupied by the young Lieutenant (Phil Stellman). Haven glances at the uniform, then at the pleasant face of the officer, as the barman comes up. 
HAVEN (to barman) Whiskey -- like you'd pour it for yourself. 
A girl sidles up to him, blonde, brash and pretty. 
BLONDE Don't you know it's no fun to drink alone? 
HAVEN Not till after the first one. 
He turns his back to her; she gives him a look and saunters off. The barman produces the drinks -- a beer for Stellman, the young officer. The barman folds his arms. Stellman looks at Haven. 
STELLMAN You a stranger here? 
CROUPIER There's a sucker getting hot with the dice at Ed's table. 
He turns away. Prince sits still, his eyes on Charlie, his slim fingers at an habitual trick, that of idly stacking dice in a little pillar and then picking the pillar aloft by holding the lowest dice pinched between the thumb and forefinger, NOT by the edges, but by the sides. Now he does it as he watches Charlie's face. Her eyes glance again at the disappearing back of Haven. The sense of fascination seems to have gotten her, too. Then she realizes the presence of Prince and his shrewd gaze. She looks at him coolly. 
CHARLIE Well -- cool him off. 
Prince flips the dice into his palm and rises... 
EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN - NIGHT 
The board sidewalk has given way to a rutty dirt road. Now the racket of the saloon street is just a ghost of noise, the road dark and silent. Haven has emerged from the saloon. He glances up the street. Fifty yards ahead, Stellman is walking slowly. Stellman pauses, shoots a quick glance backwards, then goes on. Haven follows, going leisurely up the street after Stellman. 
ANGLE on a corner as Stellman turns it, pauses and waits. When Haven reaches it, Stellman goes on in silence. 
EXT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - NIGHT 
As Stellman reaches it, pauses and glances behind him. Then he rings a bell. Haven comes up and waits in silence, glancing at the dark interior. A woman's face now peers through the door window and then the door opens. Stellman enters quickly and Haven follows. 
INT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - NIGHT 
As Stellman and Haven follow Mrs. Caslon to a rear door. Looking around, Haven notes in the shadows a desk and in a corner the big safe. (This room is described in a subsequent scene.) So as to emit the least light, Mrs. Caslon lets Stellman and Haven go through, then quickly follows them and quickly shuts the door. 
INT. MRS. CASLON'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
It is remarkably neat and elegant inside. As Haven, glancing around, pauses inside, he finds himself facing a burly uniformed cavalry officer, captain's bars gleaming on the side of his collar. The captain is big and broad and scowling. He is standing by the fireplace and his eyes are boring into Haven's with curiosity and perhaps, suspicion. Stellman steps forward as Haven and the captain are measuring each other. 
STELLMAN Captain Iles -- the Commanding Officer of the Post. 
Haven gives a casual nod. 
STELLMAN Mr. Haven -- sir. 
Iles looks him up and down. Haven hands him an envelope which he slips into his tunic without removing his gaze from Haven. 
ILES I see you finally got here. 
HAVEN (pleasantly) I seem to finally get everywhere. 
They eye each other, Iles scowling, Haven thinly smiling. The sense of conflict is already between them. 
ILES (introducing) Mrs. Caslon, -- Mr. Haven. 
She nods and smiles warmly. 
ILES You've met Mr. Stellman. 
Haven nods. 
STELLMAN It came off beautifully. He picks a very good fight. In fact, I think I'm still a little sore at him. 
ILES (grunting) Sit down, Mr. Haven. 
HAVEN Thank you, Captain. 
He sits down. Iles is still studying Haven. 
ILES So you're operating under sealed orders. 
Haven nods agreeably. 
ILES (disgruntled) All this mumbo jumbo is characteristic of the Military Information Department. 
HAVEN We use it as sparingly as possible. 
Iles pulls out a cigar, lights it, sizing Haven up. 
ILES I've been in this territory for a number of years -- and I think it might be a little rougher here than a suburb of Washington, D.C. 
HAVEN Very possibly. 
ILES Then why is M.I.D. sending you out here? 
HAVEN Because two soldiers have been murdered. 
ILES And they think I can't handle that? 
HAVEN They merely know you haven't. 
There is a tight little silence, while Iles formulates his dislike for this newcomer. 
ILES I have only ninety-four men on the post, with Indian trouble up north. The War Department has refused to send reinforcements, or am I boring you? 
HAVEN (looking bored) I'm not the War Department. 
ILES (explaining) The two soldiers were killed while escorting one of the gold stages. 
HAVEN (quietly) Is escorting gold a function of your command? 
Haven nods and they sip. 
HAVEN What mine did the two soldiers try to convoy the gold from? 
MRS. CASLON My mine -- The Argus. 
HAVEN (smiling a little) That brings me to a question I decided not to ask. 
MRS. CASLON (smiling back at him) Then I'll answer it first. Captain Iles has asked me to marry him. 
HAVEN I can understand that. 
MRS. CASLON (quietly) But you can't understand why Captain Iles should be involved in the gold business. 
HAVEN (smiling) I do now. 
MRS. CASLON It isn't just mine. You must realize there's a lot of gold from all over the territory stored at the post warehouse. 
HAVEN How much. 
MRS. CASLON Perhaps as much as half a million. (worried now) In fact, I have about fifty thousand in my safe now. 
HAVEN Who is doing all this? 
MRS. CASLON I don't know... that's the worst part of it... not knowing. 
HAVEN (puts down the glass, pats her shoulder with casual reassurance) I might find out. 
He starts for the door and she follows him. At the open door he pauses. 
MRS. CASLON Don't get into trouble -- 
HAVEN That's why I'm here. 
MRS. CASLON I know, but -- 
HAVEN Don't worry about it. Trouble and I are old enemies. We understand each other. (he grins at her) Goodnight. 
MRS. CASLON (smiling again) Good luck. 
Haven walks out and she closes the door thoughtfully and turns away. In a moment the door opens and Haven reenters and crosses to her much in the manner that we have seen Captain Iles do so. Haven stops. 
HAVEN You didn't tell me your husband's name. 
MRS. CASLON Ben. 
HAVEN (repeating it) Ben. 
He turns and goes out the door. Mrs. Caslon stands smiling after him. The smile fades for a moment -- then she dismisses it with a shrug. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT 
As Haven saunters along. He pauses, glances up at a sign that reads: HOTEL. Then he enters the dingy building. 
INT. HOTEL - NIGHT 
As Haven enters the small dismal lobby, and goes over to the desk, where a little man, Orville Weekly sits, singing to himself softly and strumming an accompaniment on a battered guitar. As Haven stands there the clerk finishes the verse about the stranger. Haven nods approval. The clerk looks at him shrewdly. 
ORVILLE Evenin' stranger. 
HAVEN You must know everybody in town. 
ORVILLE Everybody but one. I don't know you. 
HAVEN What's your name? You seem to be a pretty clever fellow. 
ORVILLE Orville Weekly, and I can't be a total blank. I been here six years and I ain't dead yet. 
HAVEN Have you got a vacant room? 
ORVILLE Day, week, month? 
HAVEN I don't always know. And the way you talk a man couldn't be very sure. 
ORVILLE Then it's eight bucks, cash in advance. 
Haven puts down the money; the clerk spins the registry to him, watches as Haven signs it. And he can read that way. 
ORVILLE From Arizona, huh? 
HAVEN No -- I always put down where I'm going next -- so I won't forget. 
The clerk spits, hands him a key. 
ORVILLE Room ten -- end of the hall. Make your own bed. Furnish your own towels. Your bag's over there. 
Mick is not quite sure. 
MICK What's keeping him? 
PRINCE I think he's wondering if he couldn't do more good here. 
Haven senses now it is a little game they're playing together on him. His smile remains. He reaches for the bottle, his hand grasping the base of it, just as Mick reaches for it too, clenching the top. Mick lifts at it; Haven's hand holds. They look at each other as this little game of strength goes on. 
MICK You aren't very friendly, are you, mister? 
HAVEN (quoting) A friend to all is a friend to none. 
PRINCE You ought to learn not to pick 'em so easy, like you do your cousins. 
HAVEN (indicating Charlie) Ask her? 
CHARLIE (coolly) I never saw him before in my life. 
That does it. Mick wrenches at the bottle, and as he does so, Haven releases his grip. The bottle shoots up. The wine spills over Mick's face and clothes. Infuriated, Mick flings the bottle at Haven, but Haven ducks as he comes out of the chair. The bottle crashes against the wall, and Haven's fist crashes against Mick. The big man grunts and staggers back, but he doesn't drop. As Haven sets himself, he is suddenly pinned from behind by two bouncers. Mick stands still, staring at him, his cut lip bleeding. 
MICK (icily) You're too little to make that big a mistake. 
HAVEN You want to correct me or just bleed at the mouth? 
There is a dead silence. At the crap table the dice read seven but no one looks at them, all turning toward the scene. A minor rises and the girl on his lap hits the floor. A drunk steals a drink and no one sees him. (Business with glass) Prince looks on coldly. Mark Bristow, moving up from the dice table, pauses and stares. 
MICK (coldly) Bring him outside. 
The two bouncers start with Haven toward the door, Mick following. A rear rises and men begin following in their silent wake. Only the guy at the piano keeps on playing: he never stops. 
ANGLE on Charlie as she rises. Bristow and Prince have sauntered over to her as the place empties, leaving only the piano player. 
BRISTOW What happened? 
CHARLIE (casually) A misunderstanding. 
PRINCE Did you find out what he wants? 
CHARLIE (starting out) He wanted to be my cousin. (they follow her) Only I haven't any aunts or uncles. (still casually) But you never know -- and the least I can do is bury him. 
Prince lets go with one of his rare smiles as he looks admiringly at Charlie. They reach the door. The crowd opens for them a little. 
EXT. SALOON - NIGHT 
As Mick and Haven come out; the crowd makes a noisy clearing. There are bets going down. As soon as the crowd has formed an open space, Haven wheels and smacks Mick across the face hitting with the heel of the hand, so that Mick rocks back almost going down. There is dead silence. Mick sets himself for the Kill, as he peels his coat. 
Bristow is shaking with excitement. 
BRISTOW Mick will kill him. 
CHARLIE That's ten to one. 
BRISTOW (grinning) I don't like the other fellow's chances, but I'm a sucker for odds. 
CHARLIE You should always bet on a champion. Then you can only lose once. 
BRISTOW You give ten to one...? (she nods) I'll take it. 
CHARLIE You're down. A thousand to a hundred. 
As they stare at the fight -- 
FULL SHOT - fight scene. As Mick is slowly advancing toward Haven. He suddenly swings a haymaker which Haven easily ducks, another and another that Haven evades. 
HAVEN Don't miss so much. You'll got tired. 
Mick misses again, fiercely and Haven cracks him one in the midriff. Then steps out fast and waits. 
Mick charges and Haven catches him full in the mouth. It stops Mick, and then Haven socks him again, this time with the butt of his hand -- open palm -- on the nose. Mick is surprised, tasting the blood on his hurt lips. 
ANGLE on Charlie, Mark and Prince, as they watch. Charlie's eyes are fixed with a kind of admiration on Haven. Prince watches without interest. Mark is tense and excited. 
BRISTOW He can fight a little. 
CHARLIE A little won't be enough. 
But you feel she wishes it might... 
ANGLE on the fight. 
MICK Stand still and fight. 
As Mick closes again, Haven stops quickly to one side, clipping him behind the ear as he goes by. But this time Mick keeps after Haven and finally connects. It is more of a push than a clean hit, but even so the force of it drives Haven off balance and he sprawls on his back. As Mick, sensing victory, charges, Haven knows he can't get to his feet in time, so he turns his body and springs at Mick's knees shoulder first. The impact spills Mick on his face; before he can recover, Haven dives on him, hands flat on his own chest and palms turned out. His body crashes heavily, angling across Mick's head, and Haven's savagely pushing hands mash the other man's face into the hard ground. Then he rolls clear and comes to his feet, breathing easily, waiting. Mick gets up, shaking his head to clear it, mad and hurt. As he closes ponderously in on Haven, his booted foot suddenly shoots out. Haven twists his knee cap away but takes the blow on the inside of his thigh, numbing the leg so that he almost goes down. And now Mick gets to him. His great arms close around Haven's waist, his hands locked in the small of Haven's back. Haven braces himself against the crushing squeeze, tensing his back muscles and stiffening his spine, but there is nothing he can do against the implacable brute power of the other man. 
The sweat stands out on Haven's face as Mick's great strength bends him over farther and farther. He must do something, and soon, or his back will be cracked like a barrel stave. Suddenly he bends his knees and lifts his feet up from off the ground. Mick, suddenly finding Haven's full weight pulling him forward, crashes down on top of him. With all the strength left in him, Haven brings his knee to the pit of Mick's stomach; as Mick's hold breaks, Haven rolls clear. 
Now they are both hurt. Haven's ribs and chest are so bruised that it is agony to take a breath. He knows it has to end quickly or he is done for, and he goes all out. As Mick tries to close with him again, he stands his ground and throws pile-driver punches to Mick's midsection; as Mick finally lowers his arms to cover his body, Haven shifts his attack to the face. This is not Mick's style of fighting, but as he lashes back clumsily and angrily, each time he touches Haven it is with punishing power. Toe to toe, they slug it out, the belt now unwound and dangling from Mick's fist, both men groggy but both refusing to go down. Finally Mick is helpless to protect himself, but Haven hasn't got power left to knock him off those sturdy legs. Gathering himself, Haven hurls his body shoulder first at Mick's chest but he miscalculates, glances off and falls flat on his face. As he rolls over, dogged and slow with exhaustion, he sees that his weight has staggered Mick; the big man has taken a step back, and now he starts to walk forward. Dazed and blind with pain, he passes Haven, staggers forward until the tie-rail stops him. There he stands, his hands on the rail, moving his head from side to side like a wounded animal. 
HAVEN You're not that sinister. Last night with the wet towels you were Florence Nightingale in silk stockings. (stretching his legs, looking at her) Have you got a match? 
She comes over with one and lights his pipe. 
HAVEN There's one in my pocket but I hate to reach for it... thanks. 
She takes his hand and looks at the cut knuckle. 
CHARLIE Sit there. 
She walks out of the room and he watches her; then around the room. In a moment she returns, pulls up a chair in the front of him and sits down. She has bandages and a little jar of ointment. 
HAVEN (smiles) Now you're Florence Nightingale again. 
She takes one of his bruised hands, and as she bandages his hands slowly, carefully and rather expertly, they talk. 
CHARLIE Why did you pick that fight? 
HAVEN I thought you did. 
CHARLIE (smiling) Really? 
HAVEN You could have insisted I was your cousin. 
CHARLIE Perhaps that isn't the way I felt about you. 
HAVEN (as his knuckle hurts) Ouch! 
She smiles at him and then goes on. 
HAVEN Where did you get the name of Charlie? 
CHARLIE It was my father's. My name is Charlene, but -- 
He watches her face. 
HAVEN I like that better... Charlene... (she doesn't answer) This'll be the first time I ever worked for a woman. 
CHARLIE (giving him a glance) What makes you think you're going to work for me? 
HAVEN You sent for me. 
CHARLIE (finishing the bandage) How's that? 
She stands up. Haven looks at her and ignores his bandaged hands. 
HAVEN Beautiful. 
CHARLIE (walking towards the window) All right, I sent for you. I was doing a nice quiet business. That was because everybody was afraid of Mick. Now every time a man has enough drinks in him to feel rugged he'll try to do what you did. 
HAVEN I wouldn't. 
CHARLIE But they will. 
HAVEN That's not the job I want. I don't intend to start at the bottom. I've been there. It's too crowded. 
CHARLIE (coolly) Where do you want to start? 
HAVEN With the money. 
CHARLIE And what will you do for it? 
HAVEN Anything -- except hang. How did you get -- all this? 
CHARLIE I learned one thing from my father. As long as men think they can beat the tables, all you have to do is get a table. Sometimes they run out of cash and I find myself with new responsibilities. 
HAVEN Such as -- 
CHARLIE A couple of stores for one thing. 
HAVEN I can't see myself behind a counter. 
CHARLIE A sawmill, and a logging camp. The logging camp's a long way from town. 
Haven gets the meaning and shakes his head. 
CHARLIE I own the stage line from here to West Rim City, but that's a dud. 
HAVEN Why? 
CHARLIE Outlaws. The money was in gold shipments. Now the mines won't ship it. 
HAVEN I'll take that job. 
CHARLIE You mean ride shot-gun? 
HAVEN I mean run the line. 
HAVEN Let's not talk about it. Right now it hurts my hands to listen. 
JERRY Yes, sir. 
He walks out, looking back with an awesome smile. Haven looks curiously at Goddard, who has been standing in silence, a thin smile on his lips. 
HAVEN What happened to you? 
GODDARD My last run. I stopped a bullet. 
HAVEN Did you get a look at them? 
GODDARD I wish I had. 
HAVEN I think I'm going to need you and not on one leg. So sit down and give it a rest. 
GODDARD (slowly smiling) Yes, sir. 
He obeys. Haven watches and then turns to the manager. 
HAVEN I'm coming back later and sit behind your desk. I'll need the keys. 
MANAGER (taking keys from his pocket) Only things here that work. 
The manager, gives them to him. Then looks at him. 
MANAGER Son, I waste my time. I might as well waste some advice. You're full of blood and vinegar, but this whole thing has got something wrong with it. Goddard only got nicked in the shin. You might not be so lucky... 
HAVEN I might depend on something besides luck. 
MANAGER Like for instance? 
HAVEN Well the fact that they don't seem to shoot too straight. 
MANAGER They don't need to when they shoot so often. 
He turns, takes a few steps -- and turns back to Haven. 
MANAGER Worry it over. 
The manager turns to go, shaking his head. 
EXT. OFFICER COMPOUND 
Haven, whistling softly, crosses to the colored boy who is polishing the last specks of dust off the buggy. It is a beautiful buggy attached to a beautiful horse. Haven pauses and gazes at it. 
HAVEN What's this? 
The colored boy steps back and admires his work. 
COLORED BOY Sumpin', ain't it? 
HAVEN Who's it for? 
COLORED BOY Miss Charlie, Mr. Haven. 
HAVEN Where do you drive her? 
COLORED BOY Same places. Around the hills, down the river, every afternoon. 
HAVEN I think I'll give you this afternoon off. 
COLORED BOY I shouldn't let you do this, suh... (looking Haven over, especially the bandaged hands) But ah am. 
Haven climbs in the buggy, and the Colored Boy watches him go. 
DISSOLVE 
INT. CHARLIE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Charlie is dressed to go somewhere. She looks much nicer in these clothes than in her show garments of the night. She is listening to Prince who sits in a chair, the inevitable dice in his fingers, two this time. There is a silence except the rattle of the cubes. Then Prince speaks coldly. 
PRINCE Does this Haven move me out? Is that the plan? 
CHARLIE Prince, you know I wouldn't part with you. 
PRINCE But I always come up empty. 
CHARLIE Not quite empty. I gave you what is probably the one honest feeling you ever had in your life. 
PRINCE I keep forgetting that. Pardon me. 
CHARLIE What's the matter, Prince? 
PRINCE I don't like John Haven or anything about him. 
CHARLIE You've said that. 
CHARLIE Then maybe you better wait and come with me. 
As Charlie starts in, Mrs. Caslon comes out and they pass. Mrs. Caslon pauses to smile and Haven tips his hat. Charlie, flashing a backward look, sees this. 
EXT. BRISTOW'S OFFICE - DAY 
MED. SHOT of Haven and Mrs. Caslon. Haven is talking to her with apparent casualness because he realizes that Charlie can see him. 
HAVEN I wonder if you'd do me a favor? 
MRS. CASLON Why, surely. 
HAVEN It's a big favor, and I wouldn't blame you if you refused. 
MRS. CASLON What is it? 
HAVEN I want to haul some gold from your mine. 
MRS. CASLON That IS a big favor. 
HAVEN I know it seems impossible to you, but that's one reason why I'm here -- to find cut what makes it impossible. 
MRS. CASLON Isn't that very risky? 
HAVEN That's why I couldn't go to anyone but you. 
MRS. CASLON (hesitating) I'm just wondering if we shouldn't speak to Captain Iles first. 
HAVEN You know what he'd say. (she smiles grimly and nods) He'd advise against it -- but if it works my way, it may clear everything up -- for all of us -- and for Iles too. The War Department doesn't like all that gold around an Army Post. 
He watches her face as she thinks it over. 
HAVEN (softly) We're working too much in the dark. This may be the only way to see something. It's a risk -- but someone has to take it... 
MRS. CASLON (firmly) Who else will know of it? 
HAVEN Just us. That'll be all who know -- and that's the idea. 
MRS. CASLON (simply) I'll arrange it. 
HAVEN (grinning) Don't look so grim. It's only your gold and my skin. And smile when you walk away as though we'd been talking about what a dry summer it's been. 
She smiles and Haven pats her shoulder. 
INT. OFFICE - DAY 
As Bristow is talking. Charlie, looking through the window, sees Haven and Mrs. Caslon part, Haven patting her shoulder with that familiar gesture of his, then coming into the office door. 
BRISTOW ...You know I'll always cooperate -- as much as possible. But I haven't the money. 
Haven has entered in silence, seated himself in a chair. Charlie does not look at him; her face, hard now, looks straight at Bristow. He pauses as he glances at Haven with a little nod Haven doesn't return. 
CHARLIE (rising and going to the desk with a sheaf of papers, which she places on his desk) These are I.O.U.s for gambling. They add up to six thousand dollars. Do you want to count them? 
BRISTOW No. 
CHARLIE (returning them to her pocket) Your credit's over, Mark. 
BRISTOW My luck can turn, can't it? 
CHARLIE Not on my tables. 
BRISTOW I've seen other people fall in this trap -- but I didn't think it would get me. 
He is sweating a little. 
CHARLIE Nobody does. I'll have Prince drop in and go over your books. Maybe we can work something out. 
BRISTOW But I told you -- 
CHARLIE That's the way it is, Mark. I pay off on the line and I expect to get paid. Give it some thought. 
She whirls and walks out the door. Haven, fumbling for his pipe and putting it in his teeth, follows her with a parting glance at Bristow. For a long minute Bristow sits there alone, his eyes staring at nothing; then as he mops the mildew of sweat from his forehead: 
WIPE 
INT. CHARLIE'S CARRIAGE - DAY 
As Charlie and Haven drive in the country. The road winds between hills now and a stream tumbles along beside the winding road. The horse is moving at a snail's pace and Charlie is gazing around at the scenery, relaxed and thoughtful. 
HAVEN You know, you remind me a little -- back there -- of a character I once read in a book. 
CHARLIE I had an idea you'd read a book. What was the character? 
HAVEN Simon Legree. 
CHARLIE Mark is mixed up. He's either crooked without being smart, or honest without being lucky. And that's no good. 
CHARLIE (absently) Four to one. 
HAVEN Pass -- (he flips the pebble, misses) What's the army got to do with Mrs. Caslon? 
CHARLIE She's engaged to Captain Iles. 
HAVEN Iles? 
CHARLIE He's the army boss here. 
HAVEN (smiling) If you're going to frighten me, the least you can do is hold my hand. 
He holds out his hand and takes hers. Abruptly she starts to rise, very piqued and unable to disguise it. Haven rises too. Takes her hand to help her from the boulder. Then stops and gazes at her, smiling. 
HAVEN This is where you ought to slip -- and I should catch you and kiss you. 
CHARLIE No chance. 
She starts down; Haven moves too, but it is he who slips and she who has to catch him. Her arms go automatically around him. His around her. Before he can act himself, she holds him tight and kisses him. It is a long kiss and on it we: 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EVENING 
Orville is strumming the guitar as Haven enters. He pauses as Haven comes near on the way to his room. 
ORVILLE Hey. 
Haven halts, walks over. 
HAVEN You finish that song? 
ORVILLE Never do. 
HAVEN Why not? 
ORVILLE It's my fatality. I never finish nothin'. 
HAVEN Maybe it's just as well. 
ORVILLE Maybe so. I thought I'd tell you. Goin' back to your room will be a waste of time. 
HAVEN It will? 
ORVILLE I don't know what happened on that buggy ride, but somebody came and took all your truck. 
He strums the strings. 
HAVEN And, naturally, you didn't do anything about it? 
ORVILLE What could I do? 
HAVEN You could have called the sheriff. 
ORVILLE Set a thief to catch a thief, eh? 
HAVEN I paid my rent and I think I'm entitled to know who stole my clothes. 
He starts to his room. 
ORVILLE (calling after him) A man couldn't ask for no prettier thief. 
INT. HAVEN'S ROOM 
Haven enters, glances around, sees the bag is missing. He goes to the window, sees Charlie at saloon window across the areaway. He leans out. 
HAVEN Hey! 
Charlie moves the window, smiling. 
CHARLIE (leaning out) Hello... I've been wondering where you were. 
HAVEN I lost my shirt. 
CHARLIE You didn't imagine that I'd let you live in that hotel, did you? I want you available -- in case of trouble. 
HAVEN Where did I move? 
CHARLIE In a very nice room upstairs. 
HAVEN (taking out his pipe) When can you get my things back to the hotel, Charlie? 
She stares at him, the smile fading on her face. 
CHARLIE Why don't you take them yourself? 
HAVEN What makes you so anxious to take this chance? 
GODDARD What makes you? 
HAVEN I'm on commission. With me it's a matter of money. 
GODDARD And you think it's something else with me? 
HAVEN I can't think of anything else -- except curiosity. 
GODDARD (gazing out drily) Some moonlight after all... 
FULL SHOT as the stage rockets off into the darkness. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - NIGHT 
The stage is now heading uphill, the gentle slope at the beginning of the foothills. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - NIGHT 
The road is steeper now, and winding. 
ANOTHER ANGLE. The road is cut out of the side of the mountain, leaving a sheer slope on one side, and high, thick trees and brush on the other. As the stage follows a bend in the road, a rider leaps out and grabs the lead horse. The stage lurches crazily and almost overturns as it slows to a stop. Before Haven can free his hands from the reins to go for his gun, two shadowy figures, handkerchiefs helping the darkness mask their faces, have jumped out onto the road ahead and have him covered. 
BANDIT All right -- stretch! 
Haven and Goddard raise their arms. Another bandit, from the hillside, calls out: 
SECOND BANDIT Pile out with the hands up. 
Two shotgun barrels cover the side of the stags. Goddard gets off, hands in air. 
FIRST BANDIT (to Haven) Get down. 
Haven obeys, to join Goddard in the road, as the bandits converge on the stage. There are five or six of them. Two come up behind Haven and Goddard. 
FIRST BANDIT Turn around and keep 'em high. 
The sacks are being loaded on a pack horse. Haven turns around. 
HAVEN Take it easy. They hang you just the same. 
SECOND BANDIT You, Goddard, start walking. 
He gives Goddard a none too gentle shove. Goddard moves on up the road in the darkness. 
A FEW YARDS UP THE ROAD. Mick is waiting by his horse, his gun drawn. We hear the steps of Goddard and the bandit. 
SECOND BANDIT'S VOICE That's far enough. 
The footsteps halt. Mick aims and fires. 
BY WAGON. There is a half grunt, half groan from Goddard. Haven turns as if to protest and then crumples as a gun fells him. 
CLOSE SHOT - Haven, lying face down on the ground, unconscious. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
EXT. SKY 
As day breaks. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAWN 
CLOSE SHOT - Haven. Haven comes to, gradually clearing the cobwebs. Then suddenly he remembers Goddard and the shot. He makes his way to where Goddard's body lies a few feet up the road. Goddard's right hand is half in his hip pocket, as if in his last dying moment he was reaching for something. As Haven pulls the hand out, he sees that Goddard's fingers have closed around his wallet. Puzzled, Haven opens the wallet. There is a stiff-backed daguerreotype of his wife, an expired Union Pacific Railroad pass, an express receipt, a souvenir bank-note of the Confederacy, and a small, closely- folded piece of paper. Unfolding this, Haven sees the top line: 
"To Whom It May Concern" 
HE READS FURTHER: 
"This certifies that the bearer, James Goddard, is operating as a legally deputized detective for Wells Fargo Stage and Express Company." 
Haven replaces the papers and lifts Goddard's body, carries it to the stage and places it on the floor. He removes Goddard's gun and shell belt and straps it on, closing the stage door. Haven's face is grim as he studies the ground nearby. The sticky mud shows clearly the new tracks of the bandits' horses. As he starts unhitching one of his horses from the wagon traces, we 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - MORNING 
A tiny clearing on a brush-filled knoll, where the remains of a cooking fire are still visible, the ashes scattered over the tamped-down ground. CAMERA PANS OVER TO Haven, on horseback, as he studies the scene. This is where he evidently made camp for the night. He dismounts, sifts the ashes through his fingers to feel their warmth. He cannot be far behind. Then he turns his attention to the trail loading away. Inspection reveals that it divides, one group of fresh tracks heading towards town, another smaller group further into the mountains. He decides to follow the latter. As he mounts and rides off: 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - MORNING 
As Haven's wagon lumbers in. He looks curiously at the main office. No one is in sight, but as he draws nearer, the swarthy hard-faced man, Pete, comes out on to the porch. 
PETE Hey, you! 
Haven looks at him. 
PETE You see a rider comin' up? 
HAVEN Nope. 
PETE You sure? 
HAVEN Haven't even seen a lizard. Where do I put this stuff? 
PETE Where did you put it before? 
HAVEN I never did. I'm a new driver. I think it's grub. 
PETE Take it to the cook shack. 
Haven flicks the reins, moves on. Pete watches suspiciously. Haven moves on to the cook shack outside of which the cook is busy dumping a pail of slop. 
HAVEN (pulling up) You the cook? 
COOK Nah. I just wear this hat to keep the flies out of my hair. 
HAVEN It don't matter to me, brother. I just haul this grub. I'd just as soon haul it back. 
COOK Take it next door. 
Haven pulls up by the warehouse next door and gets down. There is nobody around, so he starts wrestling with the food crates himself, taking the first one into the warehouse. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 
It is big, barnlike, piled with provisions and equipment. Haven stares around; carries the crate to where a similar stack of crates are piled. Lowering the crate he notes a shiny object, picks it up. It is a button from an army uniform. He pockets it as his attention is distracted by two horsemen passing outside. Haven goes out to continue unloading. 
EXT. MAIN OFFICE - DAY 
As the two horsemen ride up to Pete and dismount. Ben and Sam are standing there. 
PETE (to the horsemen) Any luck? 
BEN No sign of Joe. But there's the tracks of another horse, circling the mill and coming back on the road just north. (he points) 
PETE That's bad. 
He glances toward the wagon where Haven is working. 
PETE Let's go and look at this guy again. 
The five men move down to Haven's wagon. 
ANGLE ON wagon and Haven, as he sees them come. His lip tightens; then he relaxes and goes on lifting a crate. He pauses as they come up and stand around him, their eyes fixed on: 
PETE You -- 
Haven looks at him. 
PETE You sure you didn't see no rider? 
HAVEN Look -- you want me to say I saw a rider? I'll say it. I'll say I saw a ghost. It don't make any difference to me. 
PETE When did you get this job? 
HAVEN Yesterday. 
PETE What for? 
HAVEN It's the system. If I don't work I don't eat. I never been able to find any way to beat it. 
PETE Who hired you? 
HAVEN (blandly) Mr. Haven. 
PETE The guy that had the fight? 
HAVEN Same fellow. 
It is a risky little moment; Haven eases both bruised hands into his coat pockets. 
PETE Friend of yours? 
HAVEN (innocently) Who? 
PETE This Haven. 
HAVEN Any man who gives me a job is my friend. Look, I'm working, I haul this stuff out here. Nobody wants to tell me where to dump it. Everybody wants to know what I'm doin' and what I haven't seen. I don't know. I get thirty cents an hour. How smart does that have to make me? 
HAVEN Not many of the hands here, are there? 
COOK All up at the logging camp. 
HAVEN Much obliged. That was real fine mulligan. 
The cook isn't interested; he spits as he slices a potato. 
EXT. SAWMILL OFFICE - DAY 
Pete, Sam and Ben are waiting beside the gear box as we see Haven bringing the wagon up. 
BEN Maybe this isn't such a good idea. 
PETE Who said it was? I just want that gold outa here the easiest and quickest way. 
They watch Haven as he pulls up the wagon. Pete looks hard at his face. Haven has the pipe in his mouth again, looking very blandly at them. 
PETE You see this box? 
HAVEN Sure. 
PETE It goes to Prince. Know who Prince is? 
HAVEN Nope. 
PETE He runs things for Charlie. Know who Charlie is? 
HAVEN Sure. 
Haven climbs aboard. They look hard at him. He has stuck his pipe in his mouth. He smiles at them and he picks up the reins. 
PETE One thing... 
Haven pauses. 
PETE That's a gear box you're hauling back and it's got to be repaired. And you tell Charlie that if it ain't repaired we might have to shut down quick. You got that? 
HAVEN I got it. 
PETE All right -- then get out of here! 
Haven flicks the reins, grins at them and drives off. Ben is still worried and stares after the departing wagon. 
DISSOLVE 
EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAY 
This is deserted country on the way to town. When the land slopes steeply from the road down into a kind of wash, Haven halts the wagon. He glances around. No sign of life. He takes a hammer and chisel out of the tool box beside the seat, crawls to the crate and prys it open. His cargo is gold. Satisfied, he replaces the pried board, then pushes the crate over the side. It topples down the bank, vanishes in the brush at the bottom of the wash. With one more glance around, Haven resumes his seat in the wagon, puts a match to his pipe, and sends the horses forward at a faster clip. 
DISSOLVE 
LONG SHOT OF POST - DAY 
DISSOLVE 
INT. CAPTAIN ILES' OFFICE - POST 
Iles is pacing up and down as Stellman enters quietly. Iles promptly faces him. 
ILES Well -- what have you found out? 
STELLMAN Goddard's body -- shot in the back. 
ILES And no sign of Haven? 
STELLMAN One horse was missing. They might have taken him away on that. They wouldn't kidnap him if they'd killed him. 
ILES Why would they kill Goddard? 
STELLMAN He was a Wells Fargo Detective. 
ILES I see... he was a man they couldn't handle, so they shot him. But Haven wasn't killed. 
STELLMAN He may have followed them on the missing horse. 
ILES And he may be fishing for trout in the Verde River. Why do I always learn everything last? Why must everything be common gossip by the time it reaches me? 
STELLMAN I don't know, sir. 
ILES Neither do I, but I'll find out. The Army didn't banish me out here to set up a listening post. Bring the man in, dead or alive. If he's alive, arrest him. 
STELLMAN But can you arrest him? 
ILES No, but I can take any living human being into custody -- or am I mistaken in this too? 
STELLMAN No, sir. 
Mark stares in amazement. 
HAVEN Put it down. (as Mark obeys) I then followed the horses bearing the gold to a sawmill -- 
EXT. CHARLIE'S SALOON - EVENING 
Mick is standing outside, holding the arm of Jerry as he talks to the kid. Beside him stands Pete Yore's man, Ben. 
MICK You sure it was Haven you met? 
JERRY Don't I know my own boss? 
MICK (giving him a shove) Go in and get a beer. 
INT. MARK'S OFFICE - EVENING 
As Haven finishes his statement. He is again at the window, glancing out. Perhaps he has seen the incident with Mick and Jerry across the crowded street. 
HAVEN ...After I left there, I opened the crate. The gold was in it. 
He turns back into the room. Mark is looking at him with puzzled wonder, his face drawn and tense. 
HAVEN That's all. 
He smiles slightly. The wonder leaves Mark's face. Urbane cunning replaces it. 
BRISTOW Not quite. 
HAVEN No. 
BRISTOW What did you do about the gold? 
HAVEN I came to the conclusion that I finally had enough money to need a lawyer. 
Mark smiles thinly, licking his lips. 
BRISTOW (needing a drink again) Have you seen the sheriff? 
HAVEN I've heard about him, and I still came to you. 
BRISTOW I see. Well, as a lawyer, my advice would be -- 
HAVEN I didn't come here for advice. 
BRISTOW I'm wondering what you get out of this. 
HAVEN It makes me more valuable to somebody alive than dead. 
BRISTOW Who? 
HAVEN I don't know... yet. 
BRISTOW (levelly) Now I'm wondering what I get out of it. 
ORVILLE They been here lookin' for you, the men. 
HAVEN I thought they might. 
ORVILLE I told them you was out. 
HAVEN I was. I just came in the back way. 
Haven lights the pipe. 
HAVEN You finish that song? 
ORVILLE I had her finished, but what good is it? It was about your death. 
HAVEN Keep it a couple of days -- may be you can still use it. 
He strolls back towards his room and CAMERA FOLLOWS him, the strumming of the guitar again SOUNDING in the b.g. 
INT. HAVEN'S ROOM - EVENING 
Haven shuts the door, pulls off his boots and gun belt, lies on the bed and stares at the ceiling. His face is sad and he looks tired. The MUSIC from the saloon comes over, Charlie's song... he closes his eyes and in a moment falls asleep... 
WIPE 
EXT. MRS. CASLON'S MINE-CABIN - EVENING 
As iles rides up. He is just about to enter, after dismounting, when Mark Bristow comes out of the office. Mark smiles and nods at the officer. 
BRISTOW Good evening, Captain. 
ILES (grimly) Any news about Haven in town? 
BRISTOW I just saw Haven. 
PRINCE What you want is money. 
Haven nods. 
CHARLIE I don't see how going to the law will get it for you. 
HAVEN If you did see how, I'd never get there, would I? 
CHARLIE I'm afraid not. 
HAVEN So it boils down to this: we can make a deal, and all be happy together. 
PRINCE Not as long as you always have something on us. 
HAVEN Unless you also have something on me. 
CHARLIE And how would that be? 
HAVEN When I deliver the gold to you. 
CHARLIE You mean the gear box? 
HAVEN I can even forget I looked inside. So I stole a gear box... I'm still a thief. 
Charlie is silent a moment. Haven lights his pipe. Charlie looks at Mark, pale by the wall. 
PRINCE (indicating Mark) What does he get? 
HAVEN He gets even with you. 
PRINCE Have you lost your mind! 
HAVEN It was all right when he lost his money. 
CHARLIE All right... I'll give him the IOU's... when the gear box is delivered. 
PRINCE (smiling) You don't realize how important it is when a piece of machinery breaks down. It could close the entire sawmill. 
HAVEN I guess I didn't realize it. 
She looks coolly at Mick and Mark. 
CHARLIE I think that's all. 
Mark glances at Haven who nods and Mark leaves in the wake of the grimly departing Mick. Prince lingers. 
CHARLIE (to Haven) You can stay. 
HAVEN (to Prince) I think she was talking to me. 
Prince gets up grimly, his lips tight, the dice held hard in his fingers. He stares at Haven. 
PRINCE You roll nice dice and you bet them jamb up, but some day you'll slip. And when you do, I'll be around to catch you. 
He turns and walks out. Haven watches him go. 
HAVEN You know, I think he will. 
CHARLIE Then you should be more careful. 
HAVEN The poorhouses are filled with careful men... (knocking out his pipe) ...And so are the graveyards. 
Charlie comes around and sits on the arm of his chair. 
HAVEN You've got a nice perfume. 
CHARLIE Carnation. (she ruffles his hair with her hand) I almost had to have you killed. I'd have hated it. 
HAVEN So would I. 
CHARLIE I'd have missed you... too much. 
HAVEN And too long. 
She brushes his cheek with her lips. 
CHARLIE (she smiles at him) Did you ever tell a woman you loved her? 
HAVEN All of them. 
CHARLIE How did you get away? 
HAVEN I was always in the doorway when I said it. 
CHARLIE You never said it to me. 
HAVEN Let's go over to the doorway. 
Iles picks up the deposition, extends it. 
ILES Right here in your own statement! 
Haven glances at him, then at the statement, and then tosses it on the desk and inhales. 
HAVEN I see you did what I expected. 
ILES You've gotten a man killed and Mrs. Caslon's gold stolen. Is that far enough? 
HAVEN Not quite. 
ILES (rising slowly) Haven -- as far as I'm concerned, this deposition is good enough for me. (indicates the deposition) I want these people arrested. This is all the evidence we need. 
HAVEN I need more. 
ILES For what reason? 
HAVEN For the reason I came here... to get the murderers of two soldiers -- not to save somebody's gold. That's a mistake you made. I still don't know who killed them, but I'm going to find out. And when the net is hauled in, they're all going to be in it. (rising) That's my fish -- and you can have the minnows. 
ILES (demandingly) When are you returning Mrs. Caslon's gold? 
HAVEN (firmly) That's a matter between myself and Mrs. Caslon. 
They look hard at each other in silence. 
ILES I don't particularly like you -- but I see no reason why you should get yourself deliberately killed. 
HAVEN (smiling again) It won't be deliberate. 
ILES What difference does it make how you get killed? Where does it leave me? 
HAVEN Where does it leave me? 
ILES (meaning it) Understand this, Haven. You're heading for bad trouble -- and when it comes don't expect any help from me. Is that clear? 
HAVEN (smiling thinly) From the beginning. 
Haven turns and walks out; the door closes behind him. Iles slumps down into his chair. Stellman is smiling faintly at him. 
STELLMAN Anything else, Sir? 
ILES (glumly) Yes, three cigars, a pint of whiskey, and a copy of that confounded Blue Book. 
As Stellman turns away. 
DISSOLVE 
INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT 
As Haven saunters in. Orville is, as always, behind the desk. Haven nods at him. 
HAVEN What's the good word? 
ORVILLE For you it's not good. You're in bad trouble. 
HAVEN I don't know how you can know so much and move so little. (turning to go) I think I'll try it myself. 
ORVILLE Want to leave a call? 
HAVEN That's very nice of you. 
ORVILLE What time? 
HAVEN When you're sure everybody in town is in bed -- call me. And if anybody asks for me -- I went to jail. 
He goes and Orville strums a little jail song. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
EXT. COUNTRY - DAY 
Haven, driving a wagon and team of horses, is retracing the road he took back from the sawmill looking for the place where he dumped the bullion. 
CLOSER VIEW of Haven, as he looks for the landmarks. He is whistling softly the tune that Charlie always sings. At last he stops, alights and makes his way down the steep slope, a couple of gunny sacks slung across his shoulder. 
Bottom of the gulley as Haven gets there and locates the crate at rest in a clump of brush. The crate has broken from the fall. Haven loads the buckskin bags of gold into the gunny sack and scrambles back up the slope. 
Side of slope as Haven scrambles to the top, he finds himself looking into a six-shooter held in the unwavering hand of Mrs. Caslon. Her eyes are hard and a grim smile plays at the corners of her mouth. 
MRS. CASLON Drop it. 
Haven obeys. 
MRS. CASLON Turn around with your hands up. 
CHARLIE Alone? 
HAVEN No... she had a gun with her. 
PRINCE Did you have one too? 
HAVEN The one she had was in her hand. 
There is a silence. Prince stares idly at the dice cubes in his hand. Charlie stares straight at Haven. Haven glances at Prince. 
HAVEN This could be that slip you mentioned. 
Prince just stares at him. 
CHARLIE (to Haven) So this nice lady held you up and took the gold, is that it? 
HAVEN It's like saying I got robbed at Sunday school. It's no good, is it? 
PRINCE (looking at him) No, it isn't. 
HAVEN I even had to walk back to town. I think that may be one of the longest walks I ever took. 
PRINCE And one of the last. 
Haven takes a sip of the champagne, Charlie's whole manner has now changed. It is cold and very quiet. 
PRINCE Mick might have killed you, but you fought him with your fists. The sheriff had a gun but you took it away from him. Ben had a gun last night but it didn't seem to scare you. Now this genteol petticoat waves a pistol and you run for your life. 
HAVEN (twirling the wineglass, glancing at Charlie) He makes it sound very silly. 
PRINCE Or I make it sound like what it is: a lie! (he rises) 
Haven reaches in his pocket for a match. Prince, mistaking the gesture, swiftly extracts a small pistol from his belt, covers him. 
PRINCE No. 
Haven extracts the match, with a glance of contempt at Prince; then lights the pipe again. 
HAVEN (smiling faintly) My word doesn't seem very good around here. 
PRINCE You've only got one thing left that's any good here - and that's some gold. 
HAVEN (to Charlie) Is that all I've got? 
CHARLIE Not quite. You've got some time. You've got two hours to get it here. 
There is a brief silence that punctuates this statement. It has an air of fatal finality, marked by the idle MUSIC of the deaf pianist. Haven puts his pipe away, carefully so that Prince won't get any mistaken ideas. 
HAVEN You want me to fatten you up before you kill me? Is that what you mean? 
CHARLIE I said what I meant -- two hours. 
Haven rises. He brushes some dust off his coat, smiles thinly at Charlie. 
HAVEN I once knew a guy who stole a dime tip from a lunch counter and parlayed it into fifty thousand. I might try that -- but not in two hours. 
She says nothing; her face carved out of ice. Prince smiles thinly. Haven looks at him, shrugs. He hesitates; then pats Charlie's frigid shoulder. 
HAVEN (to Charlie) You're sweet. 
He turns and walks slowly out. The dirge of the piano follows him. Prince fingers his pistol a little, tempted. At a look from Charlie he puts it away. Haven goes out. Charlie suddenly leaves the tables and goes quickly up the stairs. Prince watches her with a slow smile, picks up Haven's gun and pockets it... 
WIPE 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
As Haven leaves the saloon. He pauses, looks around, up at the sky, then down the street. He takes out his pipe and beginning filling it slowly with tobacco, as Mark Bristow comes hurrying across the street. 
MOVING SHOT of Haven as he walks very slowly, filling the pipe, and Mark comes alongside and walks with him. Haven hardly glances at him. 
BRISTOW I've been looking for you. Where have you been? 
HAVEN I took a walk in the country. 
BRISTOW Did you get it for her? 
HAVEN No. (pausing in front of the hotel) Sorry. 
MED. SHOT of Haven and Mark outside the hotel. Mark is afraid and puzzled. He keeps staring at Haven's face. 
BRISTOW But that was the deal. You agreed to -- 
He pauses as two men walk by. 
BRISTOW If you're trying to pull something -- 
HAVEN (finished with the pipe) You want to listen? 
BRISTOW Why? Did Haven -- 
PRINCE No, he didn't. 
BRISTOW Then I don't understand -- 
PRINCE We don't think they're going to be any good. 
Mark stands there. The papers slip from his fingers. He knows what Prince means. But his mouth hardens in an effort. 
BRISTOW I didn't have anything to do with it. All I did was write it. I'm not in on this. I can still make them good. (he puts a couple back on the desk) Or I can -- 
CHARLIE What? 
BRISTOW I can do business. (fumbling in his pocket) I got it somewhere. I -- Here -- take a look at this -- the deposition -- (bringing out the deposition) The only copy. 
CHARLIE (coldly) Let's have it. 
BRISTOW (eagerly) Here. 
Hands it to her. 
PRINCE What do you want? 
BRISTOW (as Charlie opens the envelope) Nothing. I just want to get out of it. I never had any part of it. This ought to prove that! 
CHARLIE This? 
She hands him the paper from the envelope. Marks takes it and stares at it. It is absolutely a blank piece of paper. He stands there, bites his lips. He looks wearily around at them, fear making him weak, making him unable to hold the piece of paper, so that it floats to the carpet. 
BRISTOW (at last) It's -- it's a trick. I -- (trying to pull himself together) I'll see about this! He can't do this to me! (moving back towards the door) I'll go and see about this! 
CHARLIE Sure, you see about it. 
He stops dead in his tracks as Charlie moves towards him with a little pistol, pearl-handled. But she only gives it to him. She has to take his hand and put it in his palm. 
CHARLIE Take this along. 
He backs out, the little gun in his hand. Mick opens the door. In sudden relief and haste Mark barrels out. They can hear his quick feet on the stairs outside. Prince looks at Charlie. 
PRINCE Something left to wait for? 
CHARLIE (slowly) No. 
Prince gets up and leaves, and Mick, with a grim smile of anticipation follows. Charlie sits slowly down in the chair. The music comes up the stairs and through the door. 
INT. HAVEN'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Haven is lying on the bed, his arms under his head, his eyes on the ceiling. There is a SOUND in the hallway and then a hurried knock at the door. Haven slowly rises, walks to the door. He stands there. The knock SOUNDS again. 
HAVEN Who is it? 
MARK'S VOICE It's me -- Bristow -- let me in. 
Haven opens the door. Mark enters swiftly, the little gun in his hand. Haven shuts the door and locks it. He turns and faces Mark, now pointing the gun. Without a word Haven walks over to the bed and lies down again, looking at the ceiling. Mark follows him with the gun. 
HAVEN You going to shoot me, Mark? 
BRISTOW You double crossed me, Haven. 
HAVEN I did? 
BRISTOW I got the deposition back. I took it to them. 
Haven leans on one elbow, looking at him. 
BRISTOW It wasn't there! It was a piece of blank paper! 
Haven lies back with a short laugh. Mark stares at him in fury. 
BRISTOW Don't you laugh at me! I ought to kill you! 
HAVEN They want you to, Mark. 
Haven again leans on one elbow, looking at Mark and the trembling hand that holds the gun. 
HAVEN And it may be your only out, if you do. But I doubt it. You know why? Because even if you took them my scalp, it wouldn't buy your life. You're in debt and you're broke and you're scared -- and you know far too much. There isn't any way they use you -- alive. Can you think of one? 
Mark sits slowly back in the chair, beaten. 
BRISTOW They're going to do it. I know it. They're going to kill me -- (his hand trembles) Why do they have to kill me? 
HAVEN Us, Mark... 
Haven gets up slowly, reaches over and takes the little gun, smiles at it. 
HAVEN This must be hers. 
ANGLE on Mick as down the street, with disgust, he lowers his gun. 
ANGLE on Prince as from a doorway he watches. Stopping with a shake of his head the intent of a man beside him to shoot. 
FULL SHOT -- street -- as Haven surrenders to the sheriff. 
SHERIFF All right, you -- march. 
Haven obeys, walking up the street -- the sheriff and the sheriff's horse behind him. People watch, appearing now in safety. The sheriff is pretty pleased. 
MOVING SHOT -- of Haven and Sheriff. As they go, Haven's hands still aloft. 
HAVEN You loaded your gun for this? 
SHERIFF No -- you did. 
Back of them can now be seen the figures of Mick and Prince and the other gunman, following at a little distance. Going leisurely, now Haven slows his pace so that the sheriff is closer behind him. 
SHERIFF Come on, you! Keep moving! 
Haven suddenly drops to his knees. The sheriff almost walks over him. The sheriff stumbles with an oath. Haven grapples with him. Haven snatches his gun, drags him by a headlock to the horse, flings him aside and then mounts. A second later he is away. Shots RING OUT as Mick and Prince and the gunman shoot. Haven rides on, bent low, out of town. The sheriff hides his bulk in the dust as the bullets fly. 
ANGLE from Charlie's office -- as she goes to the window, stares out at the flying form of Haven. A slow smile comes over her face, bitter and grim, yet somehow faintly admiring... She sees Mick mount a horse and start after Haven. Then she turns abruptly away. 
WIPE 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 
As Haven slows down his horse, but goes on at a fair clip after looking warily back. He breaks open the sheriff's gun, finds it loaded. He reacts and whistles softly. As he swings his horse off the travelled road to head crosscountry for the sawmill. 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
EXT. NEAR SAWMILL - NIGHT 
As Haven sits on his horse at a point in the woods where he can look down on the sawmill. Around the mill office there seems to be signs of unusual activity. Haven sees Mick Marion going by on the road towards the mill. Mick passes not far away and is riding hard. Haven watches as Mick arrives and Pete can be seen in conference with him. Other men -- too many -- are gathered around. At last Haven dismounts and makes his way carefully on foot towards the warehouse. 
EXT. WOODS IN BACK OF WAREHOUSE 
As Haven leaves his horse in the brush and trees and then approaches the building. He finds a window in back, breaks it with a stone; then waits tensely to see if the sound has attracted any attention, gun in hand now. It doesn't. Haven replaces the gun in his holster, opens the window and crawls inside. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
Haven surveys the piles of crates, boxes and equipment. He starts his search methodically and swiftly. Suddenly a shaft of light comes from the front doors opened now by two men. Haven shrinks back, drawing his gun. The men start to enter when Pete's voice is heard. 
PETE'S VOICE Where you guys goin'? 
MAN You want them uniforms out, don't you? 
PETE'S VOICE I'll tell you when. 
The men turn and leave. Haven relaxes. He goes back to work, pulls back a big canvas tarpaulin one of the men had approached, and there before him is revealed the army uniforms, stacked in neat piles. He looks and smiles grimly. Outside is the SOUND of horses and more men arriving. Haven goes slowly around the warehouse now, looking for something. At last he finds it: a can of kerosene. He takes it over to the uniforms, pours it liberally on them. At just this moment a figure appears at the door. 
MAN What you think you're doin'? 
Haven lights a match and tosses it on the soaked bales of uniforms. They blaze up instantly. The man shoots as Haven ducks away. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
As the shot RINGS out. Pete and Mick, surrounded by many men, turn swiftly. Flame and smoke emerge from the warehouse. They start swiftly across, drawing guns. The man at the door shoots again into the smoking interior. An answering SHOT from Haven fells him. 
INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
As Haven makes his way back to the open window. He crawls out swiftly. Now the building is in flames. He can hear shouting and, as he moves away, the useless attempt of men to put out the blaze, working with buckets of water. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 
As Haven starts for the woods. The flames now light the ground around, and Pete appears around the side of the building. Pete fires and Haven draws and shoots. Pete whirls away, hit but still on his feet, driving forward, trying to shoot again and this time Haven drills him clean and Pete goes down to stay. Other men come up as Haven makes for the woods, disappears. 
Mick Marion and a dozen men appear, shooting. Mick suddenly changes his mind, turns past the body of Pete, gets his horse and heads back to town full tilt. 
INT. WOODS - NIGHT 
As Haven watches the flaming building. The slowly approaching figures of the men are illumined in the big light of the fire. Haven smiles, turns to the horse and moves slowly through the trees to a place where he can mount; then mounts and rides for it, SHOTS following him as he breaks into the clear some hundred yards away and heads for the road that Mick Marion took back to town. Bent low, Haven rides for his life -- and makes it... 
FADE OUT 
FADE IN 
EXT. ARMY POST - DAWN 
As Haven rides up, a detachment of men supervised by Stellman is forming beside mounts in the parade ground. Haven dismounts and starts inside. He glances at his wagon parked outside. It is the one Mrs. Caslon took from him. He smiles slightly as he notes it. 
INT. ARMY POST - ILES' OFFICES - DAWN 
Haven walks in, brushes past the desk sergeant with a cursory nod and enters Iles' sanctum. 
