STRANGERS ON A TRAIN 
by 
Raymond Chandler and Czenzi Ormonde 
FINAL DRAFT October 18, 1950 
Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY www.screentalk.org 
FADE IN: 
EXT. UNION STATION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DAY LONG SHOT THE CAPITOL DOME IN THE B.G. AND THE AUTOMOBILE ENTRANCE TO THE STATION IN THE F.G. LOW CAMERA 
Activity of cars and taxis arriving and discharging passengers with luggage, busy redcaps, etcetera. 
We FOCUS on a taxi pulling up and stopping, The driver hands out modest looking luggage, including a bunch of tennis rackets in cases to a redcap. CAMERA PANS DOWN as the passenger gets out of the taxi so that we see only his shoes and the lower part of his trousers. He is wearing dark colored brogues and a conservative suit apparently. The feet move toward, the entrance to the station and out of scene. Immediately a chauffeur-driven limousine drives up and an expensive place of airplane luggage is handed out of this, and the passenger alighting from the back is seen to be wearing black and white sport shoes which, as before, are all we see of him. The sport shoes start off in the wake of the brogues. 
INT. STATION LOBBY 
CAMERA FOLLOWS the sport shoes and the brogues across the lobby into a passenger tunnel. There is the usual activity of passengers walking to and from, a loud-speaker announcing trains, etc. 
EXT. PASSENGER TUNNEL 
As the brogues and the sport shoes emerge to the train platform, CAMERA PANS them over to the steps of the train. 
INT. TRAIN 
The brogues and the sport shoes pass separately down the aisle, the sport shoes turning in at a compartment door and the brogues continuing toward the parlor car. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. PARLOR CAR (PROCESS) 
The brogues come to rest before a chair as the owner sits down. A moment later the sport shoes come to rest. before in adjoining chair. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 2. 
The legs belonging to the sport shoes stretch out, and one of the shoes touches one of the brogues. 
MAN'S VOICE (over scene) Oh, excuse Me! 
CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to SHOW two young men seated in two parlor car chairs. BRUN0 ANTHONY, the wearer of the sport shoes, is about twenty-five. He wears his expensive clothes with the tweedy nonchalance of a young man who has always had the best. The wearer of the brogues is a fine looking but, at the moment, a somewhat troubled young man. This is GUY HAINES. He, too, is in his middle twenties and is well dressed because he can now afford to be. He nods politely, acknowledging Bruno's apology, then turns away with the gesture implying he wants privacy. 
BRUNO (smiling with sudden recognition) I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines. 
Guy nods with a polite half smile. Being a well known tournament tennis player, he has had this sort of experience before. 
BRUNO (snapping his finger) Sure! I saw you blast Faraday right off the court in South Orange last season. What a backhand! Made the semi-finals, didn't you? 
Guy acknowledges this with a modest nod and turns to his magazine rolled up in is fist. 
BRUNO (with open admiration) I certainly admire people who do things. (smiling and introducing himself) I'm Bruno Anthony. Bruno. See Guy looks up. Bruno indicates his gold tie pin which bears his name in cut- out letters. Guy looks at it with the faintest expression of disdain. I suppose you think it's corny. But my mother gave it to me so of course I wear it to please her. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                3. 
GUY (patiently)(a faint smile) How do you do. 
BRUNO (with an apologetic grin) I don't usually talk so much.   Go Ahead and read. 
GUY (wryly) Thanks. Guy tries to read but is uneasily aware of Bruno's open appraisal. 
BRUNO It must be pretty exciting to be so important. 
GUY (fidgeting slightly) A tennis player isn't so important. 
BRUNO People who do things are important. I never seem to do anything. 
Not knowing how to answer this, Guy looks a little embarrassed. 
BRUNO (still insistent on being friendly) I suppose you're going to Southampton -- for the doubles. 
GUY (politely) You are a tennis fan. 
Bruno is inordinately pleased by this small tribute. 
BRUNO Wish I could see you play. But I've got to be back in Washington tomorrow. I live in Arlington, you know. 
He has taken out a cigarette case.   Holds it out to Guy. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                      4. 
BRUNO Cigarette? 
GUY Not now, thanks.          I don't smoke much. 
BRUNO I smoke too much. 
He fumbles for a match.          Guy brings out a lighter and hands it to Bruno. 
BRUNO Thanks. (he stares at the lighter, impressed) Elegant. 
CLOSE SHOT OF THE LIGHTER 
Showing that it has the insignia of crossed rackets embossed on it, and underneath is engraved the inscription: "To G from A". 
BRUNO'S VOICE (reading) To G from A. Bet I can guess who A is. 
WIDER SHOT 
Guy reacts sharply. 
GUY (coldly) Yes? 
GUY (quickly) Marrying the senator's daughter has nothing to do with it. Can't a fellow look past a tennis not without being a goldbricker? 
BRUNO Take it easy, boy. I'm your friend, remember? I'd do anything for you. 
GUY (humoring Bruno) Sure, Bruno, sure. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       10. 
GUY (CONT'D) (glancing at his watch) We'll be pulling in soon. I've got to change trains. 
BRUNO What'd you say her name was -- your wife's? 
GUY Miriam. 
BRUNO That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose? GUY Let's not talk about it any more. 
BRUNO (almost hopefully) Maybe she'll make more trouble for you. 
GUY I don't think so. 
BRUNO You mean you got enough on her to get your divorce no matter what? 
GUY Let's change subject, Bruno, can't we? 
BRUNO Okay, Guy. Want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father? 
GUY (indicating the detective novels) You've been reading too many of these. 
BRUNO (going right on) You want to hear about the busted light socket in the bathroom, or the carbon monoxide in the garage? 
GUY No. I may be old fashioned, but I thought murder was against the law. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       11. 
BRUNO But not against the law of nature. My theory is that everybody is a potential murderer. Didn't you ever want to kill somebody? Say one of those useless fellows Miriam was running around with? 
GUY You can't go around killing people just because you think they're useless. 
BRUNO Oh, what's a life or two? Some people are bitter off dead, Guy. Take your -- wife and my father, for instance. It reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. I used to put myself to sleep at night -- figuring it out. Now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife. 
GUY Why? 
BRUNO Let's say she refuses to give you a divorce -- (raises a finger and stops Guy's protest) Let's say. You'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. And what would trip you up? Motive. Now here's the plan... 
GUY I'm afraid I haven't time to listen. 
BRUNO (ignoring the remark) It's so simple, too. A couple of fellows meet accidentally, like you and me. No connection between them at all. Never saw each other before. Each of them has somebody he'd like to get rid of, but he can't murder the person he wants to get rid of. He'll get caught. So they swap murders. 
GUY Swap murders? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               12. 
BRUNO Each fellow does the other fellow's murder. Then there is nothing to connect them. The one who had the motive isn't there. Each fellow murders a total stranger. Like you do my murder and I do yours. 
GUY (with relief) We're coming into my station. 
BRUNO For example, your wife, my father. Criss-cross. GUY (sharply) What? 
BRUNO (with a smile) We do talk the same language -- don't we, Guy? 
GUY (preparing to leave) Sure, we talk the same language. Thanks for the lunch. 
BRUNO (beaming) I'm glad you enjoyed it. I thought the lamb chops were a little overdone myself. 
He holds out his hand.   Guy is in a hurry but he shakes hands. 
GUY Nice meeting you, Bruno. 
BRUNO (detaining him at the door) You think my theory is okay, Guy? You like it? 
GUY Sure, sure, Bruno. They're all okay. (he salutes a quick goodbye and hurries away) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 13. 
Left alone, Bruno picks up Guy's lighter from the table, starts to call Guy back to hand It to him.Then he looks closer at the insignia of crossed tennis rackets. 
BRUNO (smiling) Criss-cross. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A WIDE VIEW OF THE TOWN OF METCALF 
METCALF RAILROAD STATION as the train comes in. 
THE TRAIN STATION PLATFORM MED. SHOT 
As Guy gets off the with his suitcase and tennis rackets.    A baggage man with baggage truck is passing. 
GUY Hi, Bill. 
BAGGAGE MAN (smiling) Guy Haines! Good to too you, boy. You be sure to win at Southampton tomorrow, hear me? I've got two dollars on your nose. 
GUY (indicating his suitcase and rackets) Then park these in a lucky spot for a few hours, will you? 
BAGGAGE MAN Sure thing. 
He loads them onto a truck. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. METCALF STREET LONG SHOT 
Guy is walking up the main street. 
GUY ...That's what should happen to people like you. And if I... 
HARGREAVES (interrupts) Break it up, folks. This isn't the place for a family quarrel. 
GUY (his eyes blazing) Sorry. I'm leaving. 
He starts to exit from the booth.   Miriam grabs his arm and screams at him: 
MIRIAM (yelling like a fishwife) You heard what I said, Guy Haines. You can't throw me away like an old shoe. I'm coming to Washington to have my baby. Tell that to the senate! 
Guy strides out of the store, the manager and a few customers turning around in surprise. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              19. 
The two customers in other booths, seeing the quarrel, open their doors simultaneously and Miriam's tirade is climaxed by a cacophony of noise, a big symphony, loud hot music, and the apparently unaware piano tuner. 
EXT. MAIN STREET METCALF SHOOTING TOWARDS STATION 
Guy is striding along angrily. He comes to the same intersection and the same cop. The officer makes a friendly gesture, is if he'd like to talk awhile, but Guy strides past him without noticing. 
EXT. METCALF STATION (PROCESS) Guy comes into the scene, crosses to a row of public telephone booths, enters one. Inside the telephone booth, he dumps some loose change on the shelf, sticks a nickel in the telephone, speaks into it. 
GUY Long distance. (a pause) I want Washington, D. C. The number is Republic 0800. Person to person. Miss Anne Burton. 
Another pause, very long. Guy is very restless. He digs a cigarette out of his pocket and sticks it in his mouth, then looks through his pockets for his lighter, doesn't find it. He looks puzzled, but about that time the operator speaks to him. 
GUY (continuing) Right. 
Guy picks coins up off the shelf and drops them into the telephone, then waits. He shifts the receiver and fumbles in his other jacket pocket, then turns to the phone. 
GUY (tautly, into phone) Anne, -- Anne darling. Yes, I'm in Metcalf -- (gets a grip on himself) No, everything didn't go smoothly. She doesn't want a divorce, not now.... 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              20. 
INT. BURTON LIVING ROOM 
ANNE BURTON is a beautiful, high-spirited and well-bred young woman. The smile on her face his faded to anxiety as she listens over the telephone which is on the desk. 
ANNE (after a pause then with unpleasant realization) Another man's child! But she can't do that to you, Guy -- it's unbelievable -- it's, it's evil! (she listens, then calmly) Yes, I know how you must feel. (pause) But you sound so savage. 
BACK TO GUY IN TELEPHONE BOOTH 
GUY (furiously) Sure I sound savage. I feel savage. I'd like to break her neck! (a pause, then raising his voice) I said I'd like to break her foul, poisonous, useless little neck! (the connection is bad and he strains to hear) What's that? 
Meantime the noise of a through train has been HEARD, and the horn on a streamliner locomotive. It has come up very fast, it is now almost to the station. Guy rises his voice and yells into the telephone. His voice fights the roar of the train: 
GUY I SAID I COULD STRANGLE HER! 
The expression on his face is frenzied and suggesting that he means exactly what he is saying. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 21. 
INT. ANTHONY LIVING ROOM 
The scene opens on a CLOSEUP OF A MAN'S HANDS. One of them is semi-flexed and turning slowly, The other is receiving the final touches of a manicure. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that these are Bruno's hands, and that, he is studying them moodily, CAMERA PULLS BACK FARTHER to reveal his mother, MRS. ANTHONY, sitting opposite him at a little table in the Anthony living room. She is working with scissors, file and nail buffer. Mrs. Anthony is a gentle, once pretty woman, whose pastel exterior harbors a tigress-like determination to protect her son, Bruno is in his robe and is unshaven. There is evidence of long established wealth in the heavy dark appointments of this room. 
MRS. ANTHONY Since you insisted on a manicure, dear, I do wish you'd keep your hands quiet. You're so restless lately. 
BRUNO (almost dreamily as he admires the free hand) I like them to look just right. 
Mrs. Anthony looks up, notices his moody expression. 
MRS. ANTHONY Did I file them too short? 
BRUNO No, Ma.   They look fine.   Thanks. 
MRS. ANTHONY Then what's the matter? 
BRUNO I'm all right, Ma.   Don't worry about me. 
MRS. ANTHONY You look so Pale, dear. Are you out of vitamins? 
BRUNO I bought a bottle of them yesterday. A whole fifth. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              22. 
MRS. ANTHONY (anxiously) But you have that 'look'. I can always tell. You haven't got into any more mischief, Bruno? 
He denies this with a slow, solemn shake of his head. 
MRS. ANTHONY I do hope you've forgotten about that silly little plan of yours? 
BRUNO (sharply) Which one? MRS. ANTHONY (smiling) About blowing up the White House? 
BRUNO (his eyes dancing) I was only kidding, Ma. Besides, what would the president say? 
MRS. ANTHONY (laughing gaily) You're a naughty boy, Bruno. But you can always make me laugh. (she rises) Now get shaved, dear, before your father gets home. 
Bruno's fist crashes down on the little table, upsetting it, as he gets to his feet. 
BRUNO I'm sick and tired of bowing and scraping to the king. 
MRS. ANTHONY (placating him) Now,    now, Let's not lose control. Come    see my painting, dear -- (she leads him toward an easel) I do    wish you'd take up painting. It's    such a soothing pastime. 
They look at the painting. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 23. 
INSERT 
MRS. JOYCE That it is. 
WOMAN I've been reading where your son-in- law's been coming right along at tennis. 
MRS. JOYCE (sourly) We don't have any interest in tennis any more. 
The neighbor passes on. 
CLOSE UP 
Bruno, still glancing over the top of his paper. 
LONG SHOT 
Again from Bruno's viewpoint, we see Miriam's house. At this moment the front door swings open, emitting a long streak ot bright light. We see the silhouette of a woman emerge, followed by two other men. They're laughing and joking. Suddenly they look up the street. At this very moment the bus pulls up in front of Bruno's view, cutting off the sight of his quarry. The bus comes to a stop. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Bruno rises in alarm and moves around toward the end of the bus so that he shall not lose sight of the girl coming out of the house. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT 
From his viewpoint, the girl, whom we now see is Miriam, is running followed by the two young men. They are calling for the bus not to go - shouting, "Hi - stop!" Mrs. Joyce calls from the porch: 
MRS. JOYCE Don't you stay out too late, Miriam. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               28. 
MIRIAM (calling back) Goodnight, Mother.   See you later. 
CLOSE UP 
Bruno watches Miriam. 
MED. SHOT 
Miriam comes nearer and nearer to Bruno. With her two companions she brushes past him and jumps onto the bus.    THE CAMERA PANS BRUNO AFTER THEM. 
EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK LONG SHOT 
We see the bus pull up outside the Amusement Park, and the various passengers alight. These include Miriam nd her companions, and Bruno. 
LONG SHOT NEARER VIEW OF THE AMUSEMENT PARK 
We see the usual midway with its various concessions on each side: in the distance the Ferris wheel, Merry-go-rounds, etc., and beyond that a lake. In the foreground we see people filling in and out. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
MED.   LONG SHOT A GROUP BY A FROZEN CUSTARD STAND 
This group comprises Miriam and her two boy-friends. They lick their way out of the crowd and debate between themselves where to go next. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Miriam's eye catches the attention of something off screen. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT 
From her viewpoint we see Bruno standing and casually watching her. Other people pass around and in front of him, so that he is the only immobile figure. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 29. 
SEMI-CLOSEUP 
Miriam, with a kind of coy consciousness, turns away with the others and they go on to some other concession. 
MED. SHOT 
As Bruno starts to advance in the direction of Miriam he is momentarily held up by a small boy in cowboy uniform carrying a gun and a balloon. The small boy points the gun at Bruno. 
SEMI-CLOSE UP The small boy pointing the gun fires it twice with a couple of 'bangs!' He then starts to move off. 
SEMI-CLOSE UP 
Bruno moves on past the boy. He casually touches the balloon with his cigarette end -- it goes off with a 'pop'. 
CLOSE UP 
The small boy turns and looks with dismay at his pricked balloon, wondering what happened. 
SEMI-CLOSE UP 
Bruno moves on, pleased with himself, returning his attention to Miriam who is somewhere ahead of him. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Miriam and her two boy-friends by the sledge hammer concession where the aim is to swing the hammer hard enough down onto its target to ring the bell and register the 100 mark. Miriam is in the foreground of the shot. The first boy steps up to try his hand. As he swings, Miriam turns and glances about her, obviously looking for Bruno. 
LONG SHOT FROM MIRIAM VIEWPOINT 
The crowds milling, but no sign of Bruno. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 30. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
The first boy having failed to ring the bell, the second stops up and slams the hammer down. 
CLOSE SHOT 
The register shooting up only to the hallway mark. 
CLOSE SHOT MIRIAM 
INSIDE THE TUNNEL 
We see the silhouettes of the occupants of Miriam's boat on the wall of the tunnel, lit dimly from the light coming from the tunnel exit. 
The silhouette of Bruno in his boat, lit by the tunnel entrance, gradually approaches the other three. When the silhouettes are almost touching, we -- 
CUT TO: 
EXIT OF THE TUNNEL 
It is empty. There is a sudden piercing scream from inside, followed after a second or two by protestations and giggling as Miriam's boat emerges into the light. She is pushing one of the boys away from her. 
MIRIAM (squealing) George, stop it, I tell you! 
Their boat moves out of the picture, toward the island. Presently Bruno's boat comes smilingly following and he, too, moves on out of the picture. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 34. 
MEDIUM SHOT ISLAND 
The group of Miriam and her companions are scrambling out of their boat and moving onto the island, one of the boys trying the boat on the shore. They disappear into the Woods of the island. 
Again Bruno's boat comes into the picture. He steps out, lift the prow of the boat a little onto the shore. 
LONG SHOT ISLAND 
We see the amusement park lighted beyond the lake. Silhouetted in the foreground, the trees and foliage of the island. Nearby we see the silhouetted figures of Miriam and her companions move across the scene, right to left. Miriam is pushing George away from her. 
MIRIAM (protesting perfunctorily) George, no! 
She backs away from him and the boys go on picture. Miriam goes in another direction, around, the bushes. George obviously misses her, for we hear his voice call out: 
GEORGE'S VOICE Miriam! 
Miriam backs out of the bushes   until the back of her head is in CLOSEUP in the foreground of   the shot. Suddenly she hears steps in back of her and turns   her head toward CAMERA. Her face changes as she recognizes   someone offscene. 
MIRIAM Oh! 
She gives a coy smile of recognition. CAMERA   PULLS BACK to reveal the mad and shoulders of Bruno between  Miriam and the camera. His hand holds Guy's lighter which he   flicks on as he raises it above Miriam's face. 0f Bruno, we  see only the back of his head and shoulders. 
BRUNO Is your name Miriam? 
MIRIAM (with surprise) Why yes. How did you -- 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 35. 
We see Bruno's gloved hands dart quickly to Miriam's throat. The lighter falls down out of picture, and as Bruno's hands grip her throat, his head moves slightly to blot out Miriam's face. His head moves a bit farther until Miriam's face is nearly uncovered at the other side of the screen, and we see her glasses fall off. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Miriam's glasses hit the ground. The shadows of their struggling figures over the shot. 
CLOSE UP The screen is filled with one of the lenses  of the glasses. They are of the diminishing type. Against   the moonlit sky we see reflected, the elongated struggling  figures, as though we were shooting up at them. Suddenly one   of the figures falls forward. 
CLOSE UP 
Miriam's head drops into the picture by the glasses. 
Bruno's hand comes into the picture and picks up the glasses. One of the lenses has been broken by Miriam's fall. 
As we see Bruno's sport shoes move away, the CAMERA MOVES PAST MIRIAM'S HEAD until it comes to Guy's lighter pressed into the earth. 
CLOSE UP BRUNO 
Bruno glances back over his shoulder.   He looks down and goes back one or two steps. 
CLOSE UP BRUNO'S HAND 
Bruno's hands retrieve the lighter from the ground. 
LONG SHOT ISLAND 
We see a full view of the island again, with the amusement park beyond. The faint noise of the calliope continues in the distance. Bruno has been lost to view. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  36. 
Miriam's companions are still searching for her.   We hear their faint voices in the distance. 
VOICES Miriam!   Miriam! Where are you? 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Bruno comes to the shore where his boat is moored. He gets in and is quickly chugging away. He moves calmly, matter-of- fact and not furtively. 
LONG SHOT LAKE Bruno's boat throbbing its way across toward the landing stage. 
MEDIUM SHOT LANDING STAGE 
There are two boats unloading. Bruno's boat is approaching. We hear a loud call from the island. Someone has found Miriam. 
VOICES Hey, here she is! What's the matter with her? Has she fainted? 
More shouts from the island cause the people at the landing stage to look back.  The boatman's attention is also attracted. Suddenly,  as Bruno is getting out of boat, there is a loud scream from the island. 
VOICE (crying out) She is dead! 
OTHER VOICE (from island) Help! Help! 
Bruno by this time has stopped onto the landing stage, and in company with the other people, is looking back as if to see what's wrong on the island. Then he moves away, starting off of the landing stage. The boatman turns and glances at Bruno, but quickly returns his attention to the disturbance across on the island. He hurries forward and with a couple of men passengers jumps into one of the boats. He calls to his assistant as he gets into the boat. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                37. 
BOATMAN Got a cop! 
Watching Guy closely. 
MED. SHOT 
As Guy starts to make the long trek across the living room, with Anne behind him -- 
GUY (stiffly) Good evening, sir.   Hello, Babs. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 48. 
Barbara has been squirming in her seat, then as if jet propelled she catapults out of it and runs to Guy, giving him a big hug and a smack on the cheek. 
BARBARA Something awful has happened, Guy. 
SENATOR (firmly) Sit down, Barbara. 
Subdued, she sits down.   But Guy remains standing. 
SENATOR (finding it difficult to begin) There seems to be no way of diplomatically breaking tragic news. I'm sorry, Guy, to be the one to tell you. It concerns your wife. She's been murdered. 
Guy stares woodenly at the Senator, is if hypnotized. 
BARBARA The police have been using everything but radar to locate you. 
SENATOR You're to call Headquarters at Metcalf. 
The full impact of what has happened hits Guy once more. 
GUY Miriam...murdered. 
ANNE (with inner tension) She was...strangled. 
Slowly Guy's eyes meet hers. They are remembering what he said on the phone: "I could strangle her." He sinks into a chair. The Senator is quite distressed. 
During the following scene Barbara quietly goes about the business of pouring drinks and serving them. She knows everyone's preference. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org      49. 
SENATOR (wrylt, to Guy) It happened on an island in an amusement park. It was sort of a lovers lane, I believe. A rather sordid atmosphere. 
BARBARA (quickly, to Guy) Miriam went there with two boys. They were the ones who found her. So they're not suspects. But you probably will be. 
SENATOR Young lady, we can't overlook the fact that murder is at our doorsteps. But I forbid you to drag it into the living room! 
BARBARA (wide-eyed) Let's not fool ourselves. The police will say Guy wanted Miriam out of the way so he could marry Anne. In a crime of this sort the police first go after the husband, and Guy had every motive. 
SENATOR (aghast) Motive? 
GUY (quietly) She's right. Whichever way you look at it...I'm in a spot. 
SENATOR (disconcerted but whistling in dark) Oh come now, my boy. I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. 
BARBARA (flatly) If he hasn't an alibi for nine-thirty tonight he has plenty to worry about. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              50. 
ANNE (who hasn't taken anxious eyes off Guy) You can tell them where you were, can't you, Guy? 
GUY (wearily) At nine-thirty I was on the train from New York to Washington. 
SENATOR (relieved) There you are. BARBARA Who saw you? Did you speak to anyone? You'll need a Witness, you know. 
GUY (as if it didn't matter) Yes, I spoke to someone. 
SENATOR (hopefully) Anyone you know? 
GUY No. His name was Collins.   He is a professor. 
SENATOR (brightening) Harvard. 
GUY University of Virginia. 
The Senator's expression says: "Well, that's not too bad." 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
Her face shows her relief that Guy can account for his time. 
ANNE Then everything's's all right. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org        51. 
BACK TO SCENE 
BARBARA Not quite. Detectives play a game called Motive, Motive, Who'd got the Motive. 
ANNE (near the breaking point) I'm sick of hearing that word! 
BARBARA He'll still have to answer questions. SENATOR Routine.   Pure routine. 
GUY I'm afraid there'll be a lot of reporters at your front door in the morning. 
BARBARA Daddy doesn't mind a little scandal. He's a senator. 
ANNE (answering Guy's look) It can't be helped, darling. It is not your fault. It's not as though anyone can say you had something to do with it. 
GUY Someone might say it...I'd do anything to keep you all out of this mess. 
SENATOR Profit by my experience, Guy. Never lose any sleep over accusations. (an afterthought) Unless they can be proved, of course. We'll help all we can. Dreadful business, dreadful. That poor unfortunate girl. 
BARBARA (flatly) She was a tramp. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              52. 
MED. SHOT 
Seated behind Guy, apart from the others who are waiting, is Professor Collins, Guy's drunken companion on the train of the night before. The professor is completely sober now, dignified and erect. He has removed his glasses to polish them and does not react to Guy's presence. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
Guy starts with a smile of recognition to say, "How do you do?" but at that moment he hears the door open and his name called: 
SERGEANT'S VOICE Will you come in, please, Mr. Haines? 
MED. SHOT 
Guy breaks away from his uncompleted greeting to the professor and goes through the door to Captain Turley's office, followed by the eyes of the waiting people. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              56. 
INT. CAPTAIN TURLEY'S OFFICE 
CAPTAIN TURLEY is conscientious, methodical and always polite. He puts aside photographs and records and rises from behind his desk as Guy comes in. A detective lieutenant, CAMPBELL, is attending a coffee maker. Their expressions are grave by contrast with Guy's confident attitude after seeing the professor in the waiting room. 
CAPTAIN TURLEY Good of you to be so prompt, Mr. Haines. This is Lieutenant Campbell. (the two nod to each other) Won't you sit down? GUY Thank you, sir. (he sits) 
CAPTAIN TURLEY I know you're a busy man, so   we won't detain you any longer than necessary...Now you already been good enough to tell us where you were last evening, and we've managed to locate the gentleman you spoke with on the train. 
Turley signals to Campbell to call the professor in. 
GUY (brightening) Yes. I saw him outside. 
CAMPBELL (at open door) Will you come in please, professor? 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He looks up eagerly. 
MED. SHOT 
Professor Collins comes in and sits in a chair opposite Guy. 
TURLEY Professor Collins, this is Mr. Haines. He was with you on the train last night. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              57. 
The professor studies Guy for a moment, then awkwardly turns to Turley. 
COLLINS I'm terribly sorry, but I really don't remember meeting this gentleman. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
Surprised.    His confident expression fades. 
CLOSEUP PROFESSOR COLLINS He turns from the captain to Guy. 
COLLINS (apologetically) Unfortunately, I remember very little about the journey from New York...You see, there had been a little celebration -- 
MED. SHOT GROUP 
Guy interrupts with a slight note of impatience. 
GUY But we were sitting opposite each other in the observation car! You were singing a song about a goat -- 
COLLINS (incredulously) A goat? 
GUY (urgently) And calculus. You were going over a speech you'd made. 
Turley and Campbell are watching closely. 
COLLINS I was? I'm sorry, Mr. Halnes. (shakes his head) I certainly must have celebrated!   I can't remember you at all. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                58. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
Momentarily Guy is frustrated, then he turns quietly to Turley. 
GUY (calmly, logically) Captain, is it so important whether or not Professor Collins remember me? Surely, the important thing is that I've been able to name a man who was on the train with me. You've been able to find him. Isn't that proof of where I was at nine-thirty last night? Guy asks this question with a look of near triumph that he has clearly established his alibi. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BURTON LIVING ROOM EVENING 
The Burtons are having coffee. Barbara has been glancing through a new murder mystery with a lurid cover. As Guy enters, Anne rises to greet him. 
ANNE Hello, darling. Have you had your dinner? 
GUY On the train. 
ANNE You weren't in Metcalf all this time? We expected you hours ago. 
BARBARA (flatly) I didn't. They sometimes throw a suspect in the can and keep him there all night. 
SENATOR (after a disapproving glance at Barbara) Sit down, Guy. Sit down.    Give him some coffee, Anne. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       59. 
SENATOR (CONT'D) (back to Guy) You had no trouble with the police of course, once they verified your alibi? 
GUY (morosely) When an alibi is full of bourbon, sir, it can't stand up. 
BARBARA You mean the professor was boiled? 
GUY Completely.    He didn't remember me. 
ANNE But, you knew he was on the train! Wasn't that enough to prove you were on it, too? 
Guy turns his back on Bruno's figure and looks frantically toward to street, wanting to get away. 
HENNESSY -- He'd put ten men on your trail. He says -- 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 64. 
GUY (interrupts) Let's take this cab.   It's getting late. 
He hails a taxi which is cruising by, and they start to get in. Guy directs the driver. 
GUY Pentagon Building, please. 
HENNESSY Oh, no, not there! I always get lost. 
INT. TAXI CLOSE SHOT 
Guy turns and looks out of the window. 
LONG SHOT JEFFERSON MEMORIAL 
from Guy's viewpoint, shot through the cab window. Again we see the solitary figure of Bruno looking after Guy and beginning to recede with the background as the cab starts off. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
As Guy comes in from outside, there is a note on   the floor that has been pushed under the door. Guy picks    it up, stares at it for a minute before he opens it. He takes    out a handwritten note and reads it with an expression   of disgust. 
INSERT NOTE (IN GUY'S HANDS) 
IT READS: 
Dear Guy: We have to meet and make plans. Call me at Arlington ----. Time's getting short. Bruno 
The handwriting is sprawling and erratic, embellished with conceited flourishes. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                65. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall into an ash tray. 
Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall into an ash tray. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LONG SHOT EXT. MELLON GALLERY LATE AFTERNOON 
CAMERA is in a low setup, to take in the sign across the doorway which identifies the gallery. Hennessy stands in the foreground in front of the building, on duty. 
LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. MELLON GALLERY 
Guy and Anne are walking slowly through a more or less deserted room of the gallery. Their manner is relaxed and intimate. 
ANNE Well, we'd better be getting back. 
GUY We've actually been alone for an hour. Seems almost indecent. You like? 
ANNE (softly) I like. 
GUY I was beginning to feel like a goldfish. 
ANNE So was I. When we build our house, darling, we won't even have glass windows. No doorbells, no newspapers, no telephone -- 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               66. 
GUY No Hennessy. 
ANNE (suddenly serious) How long can it go on? 
GUY I don't know. I suppose until they find out who did it. 
ANNE We'll be happier then, won't we? 
GUY I suppose so. 
Anne looks it him, surprised at his lack of enthusiasm. They walk on out of the picture. 
A figure steps out from behind a pillar in the main hall of the gallery, near the spot from which they have disappeared. It is Bruno. He calls. 
BRUNO (softly) Guy! 
Anne stops and looks back. Guy knows who it is and would not turn but that he is forced to by Anne's action. He takes a few steps towards Bruno. 
CLOSEUP 
Anne watches Guy approach this stranger.   She looks downward at Bruno's tie pin. 
CLOSEUP 
Bruno's tie pin, bearing his name, gleams in the light. 
CLOSEUP 
Anne reads the name on the tie pin. 
TWO SHOT 
Guy comes up to Bruno, steps in front of him. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                67. 
LONG SHOT 
The mixed doubles couples complete their handshaking at the net and move off the court. We see Guy move up to the base line while the other player takes his position for the preliminary knock-up. 
MED. SHOT 
As Guy casually knocks the ball across the net, he glances again toward Bruno. 
MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT 
Bruno is making his way out of the small stand. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 71. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
Perplexed and apprehensive as to what Bruno may be up to. He hears his opponent's voice. 
PLAYER'S VOICE Ready, Guy? 
Guy shakes off his abstraction and poises himself to receive the ball. 
LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
MED. SHOT PASSAGEWAY LEADING TO TERRACE We see Guy coming alone, having fInIshed his game. He is carrying his rackets, wears a towel around his neck, etcetera. He walks into foreground, into CLOSEUP, and suddenly stops short at what he sees: 
MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT 
The group at the table comprising Bruno, Anne and the two French people. Bruno is preening himself as the others laugh uproariously, obviously at something Bruno has said. Anne catches sight of Guy and smiles at him. 
CLOSE SHOT GUY 
CAMERA MOVES WITH HIM as he comes forward toward the table. 
MED. SHOT GROUP AT TABLE 
As Guy comes into the scene.   He stands staring. 
ANNE Guy, darling -- this is Mr. Antony -- a friend of Monsieur and Madame Darville... (to Bruno) Guy Haines. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He gives a weak acknowledgment in Bruno's direction, realizing that Bruno has wormed his way into the group and that he must accept the introduction. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                72. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Bruno half rises, smiles affably at Guy, reaches out his hand. Guy is forced to shake hands with him 
BRUNO I've been a fan of yours for a long time, Mr. Haines. In fact, I follow everything you do. 
MME. DARVILLE Mr. Antony has been telling us such charming stories... Very funny. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He gives another weak little smile. 
MED. SHOT 
In response to the Frenchwoman's attentive and eager expression, Bruno leans forward on the table and starts saying something more in extremely fluent French. 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
She is staring at Bruno with a new expression. 
CLOSEUP FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT 
Bruno's coat has spread open a bit, and his tie pin bearing the name "Bruno" is resting on the edge of the table. 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
She becomes aware that this is the man she has seen call to Guy in the art museum, that they have met before. Her eyes turn a little in Guy's direction, though she does not look at him. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He is still watching Bruno talk to the French couple. Guy is unaware of Anne's looks. Suddenly his attention is arrested by the sound of Barbara's voice calling him. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                73. 
BARBARA'S VOICE Guy! 
He turn his head and CAMERA PANS him to Barbara, who is standing a few steps from the table beckoning to him. 
BARBARA (Sotto voce) I've just been talking to your shadow. (very impressed) Guy, did you know Mr. Hennessy helped crack that axe murder I was reading about? You know, the one where the body was cut up and hidden in the butcher shop? He was locked in the ice box with the left leg for six hours! 
GUY He pulls those yarns right out of his hat, Babs. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He gives a sharp look back toward Bruno. There is more laughter coming from the French couple at the table. 
CLOSE SHOT GROUP AT TABLE FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT 
Bruno is occupied with his French joke, but Anne is looking at Guy strangely. 
TWO SHOT GUY AND BARBARA 
Guy turns back to Barbara.    Barbara looks with interest toward Bruno. 
BARBARA Who's the nice looking Frenchman with the Darvilles? 
GUY He's not French.    His name's Antony. 
INT. BURTON HOUSE BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF ANNE 
Her face is troubled. CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL BACK. We see now that the reception is in progress and that Anne stands beside her father to greet the arriving guests. CAMERA PULLS BACK FURTHER to show us a full view of a very crowded Washington gathering Many white ties and tails and decollete in evidence. Many accents. Even some foreign languages are being spoken. Music and chatter in the b.g. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Anne and the Senator are still greeting new arrivals. Anne's manner is somewhat preoccupied. She glances around as she speaks, as though looking for someone. 
ANNE (to new arrival) Thank you so much, Mr. Lindsay. We'll look forward to it. 
PANNING SHOT FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT 
THE CAMERA PASSES various groups   of guests in conversation including Guy and Barbara who are   together. From this distance we cannot hear what they   are saying. CAMERA CONTINUES TO the front door. It    opens to admit a new arrival. It is Bruno. He wears white tie    and tails, looking very elegant. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                78. 
We see Guy excuse himself from Barbara, cross to Bruno and speak to him angrily, obviously asking, "What are you doing here?" Bruno, however, greets Guy with a smile then turns from him, unperturbed and bland. He sees Anne and moves toward her, smiling. 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
As Bruno comes in her direction, Anne's expression shows her mystification and concern about Bruno's presence and about Guy's attitude toward him. 
MED. SHOT Bruno comes up to Anne and the Senator. He gives a slight bow to the Senator; then puts his hand out to Anne. 
BRUNO Good evening, Miss Burton. 
The Senator looks inquiringly.    Anne makes the introduction. 
ANNE This is Mr. Antony, father. 
SENATOR How do you do, sir. 
BRUNO I'd like to talk to you sometime, Senator, about my idea of harnessing the life force. It will make atomic power look like the horse and buggy. (the Senator and Anne are beginning to look at him in amazement) I'm already developing my faculty for seeing millions of miles. And, Senator, can you imagine being able to smell a flower on the planet of Mars? I'd like to lunch with you some day soon and tell you more about it. 
Interrupted by new arrivals, Bruno moves away out of the picture, with a charming smile to Anne. 
The Senator greets the new guests with open mouth and simply shakes their hands while glancing off in direction of the departing Bruno. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 79. 
DOWAGER (to Senator) So nice to see you, my dear Senator. 
SENATOR Ah yes, indeed -- I beg your pardon? 
She realizes he hasn't heard a word she's said and haughtily moves on. The Senator turns to Anne. 
SENATOR (still looking after Bruno) I don't remember inviting that young man. Who is he? ANNE A friend of the Darvilles. 
SENATOR He has an unusual personality. Provocative. 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
She looks off in Bruno's direction extremely disturbed at this new aspect of the mysterious stranger. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
He is watching Bruno. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy sees Bruno join a group of several ladies who are seated on a settee and a couple of older men who are standing by. A waiter comes along with a tray of drinks. Bruno takes one. 
CLOSEUP BARBARA 
She comes from the same direction that Guy came.   She stops short as she sees: 
MED. SHOT FROM BARBARA'S VIEWPOINT 
Bruno is now heartily joining in conversation with one of the elderly gentlemen. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 80. 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO AND GROUP 
Bruno talking to an elderly, dignified gentlemen. 
BRUNO But tell me, Judge, after you've sentenced a man to the chair, isn't it difficult to go and eat your dinner after that? 
JUDGE Young man, when a murderer is caught, he must be tried. When he is convicted, he must be sentenced. When he is sentenced to death, he must be executed. 
BRUNO Quite impersonal, isn't it, sir? 
JUDGE So it is. Besides, it doesn't happen every day. 
At this moment, Anne comes into the scene.    She hesitates as she hears Bruno's answer. 
BRUNO So few murderers are caught. 
The Judge moves out of the way. Bruno smiles blandly at the ladies. One of them speaks to him. 
MRS. CUNNINGHAM Well, Mr. Antony, you seem very interested in the subject of murder. 
Anne looks more troubled, then moves on out of the scene. 
BRUNO No more than anyone else.   No more than you, for instance. 
MRS. CUNNINGHAM Me?   I'm not interested in murder. 
Bruno pulls up a chair to face the two woman on the settee, sits down, straddling the seat, to look at them over the back of the chair and settle down for a nice conversation. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       81. 
BRUNO (his tone is teasing) Oh, come now, everyone's interested in that. Everyone would like to put someone out of the way. Now surely, Madame, you're not going to tell me that there hasn't been a time when you wanted to dispose of someone. Your husband, for instance. 
GUY I hardly know him, sir. 
SENATOR Get him out of here as soon as you decently can -- will you. This is a nice item for the gossips. First thing you know, they'll be talking about orgies. I'd better get back... 
GUY Yes, sir. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  86. 
The Senator leaves.   Guy stands over Bruno's outstretched figure. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Bruno is now half awake. Almost without seeing Guy, he staggers to his feet and begins to make his way to the door. Guy advances, and with a sharp thrust, pushes Bruno back on the settee. 
Bruno looks and sees Guy clearly for the first time. 
BRUNO What happened? I was on a merry-go- round somewhere. It made me dizzy. 
Guy moves forward, and thrusting his hand in Bruno's open shirt, pulls him to his feet. Bruno ignores Guy's violence and remain puzzled. 
GUY (disgusted) You're a mad, crazy maniac, and you ought to be locked-up! Now will you get out of here and let me alone? 
BRUNO But, Guy -- 
Guy smashes Bruno in the jaw, in utter disgust, and knocks him back onto the settee. Bruno looks up from his sprawled position, a dull look in his eye. 
BRUNO You shouldn't have done that, Guy. 
GUY (subsiding) Come on -- pull yourself together. Do your tie up. 
Bruno staggers to his feet. He fumbles at his collar.    As he crosses to him, CAMERA MOVES IN to a CLOSER SHOT. 
GUY Here -- let me. 
He fixes Bruno's shirt and collar together and quickly ties his white bow. Bruno stands swaying like a small boy as Guy does this. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 87. 
CAMERA PANS WITH THEM as Guy starts to escort Bruno from the room. 
GUY Have you got a car here? 
BRUNO (mumbling) Driver's outside. 
They pass trough door into the hallway. 
INT. HALL MEDIUM SHOT One or two of the guests turn their heads as Guy takes Bruno across to the front door. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Barbara appears in the hallway, coming from the crowded sitting room. She watches the two men go out the front door. 
MEDIUM SHOT 
Bruno and Guy going out the front door. The man-servant does not close it immediately, so we are able to HEAR the call for Mr. Antony's car. 
CLOSEUP BARBARA 
She turns her head and looks up the stairs. Barbara has not quite recovered from her ordeal. She hurries forward to greet Anne who is hurrying down the stairs. 
TWO SHOT 
CAMERA PANS DOWN with Anne as she descends the last few steps. Barbara enters the picture and the two girls meet at the foot of the stairs. 
ANNE What's the matter, Barbara? Did you see it happen? Did you see it -- all? 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              88. 
CLOSEUP BARBARA 
BARBARA (still shaken) He looked at me! His hands were on her throat, but, he was strangling me! 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
ANNE (aghast) How do you mean? 
TWO SHOT 
BARBARA He was looking at her first. Then he looked over at me. He went into a sort of trance (shudders) He looked horrible! (reflectively) He thought he was murdering me. 
CLOSEUP ANNE 
She looks away, with growing consciousness of the situation 
TWO SHOT 
BARBARA Anne, why me? Why me?   What did I have to do with it? 
Anne is extremely concerned and thoughtful. Suddenly she gets an idea and with a pat on Barbara's arm, asks hurriedly: 
ANNE Do you know where Guy is? 
BARBARA He went out with that man! 
Anne hurries to the front door and passes through. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                89. 
EXT. HOUSE 
Anne comes out onto the steps and looks around.   She stops short as she sees: 
LONG SHOT EXT. STREET FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT 
CUT TO: 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               93. 
TWO SHOT ACROSS THE STREET 
As Hennessy watches Anne and Guy go toward the house, his relief, HAMMOND, comes up. Hammond's a zealous, hard-eyed sleuth. 
HENNESSY (a little glum) Hello, Hammond. 
HAMMOND You look worried. What's the matter? 
HENNESSY You'd better keep on your toes. Something funny's going on. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. GUY'S APARTMENT LATER THAT NIGHT 
Still in his dinner clothes, Guy is seated in deep thought near the telephone, wrestling with his problem. There is an open telephone directory in front of him. He comes to a decision, picks up the telephone and dials a number. He waits for the answer, then: 
GUY Bruno? Yes, yes, it's Guy...I've decided to do what you want. I'll make that little visit to father.... (listens a moment) Tonight. (listens another moment) Yes, I want to get this thing over with, can you leave the house again, Bruno? (pause) You'd better stay out till daylight. 
Guy hangs up, rises and starts to move with purpose for his night's activities. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT 
Guy is sitting at the table. He is dressed differently, having changed from his dinner clothes to a sack suit. There is only one lamp lighted in the room. Guy presents a grim picture. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 94. 
He is studying the plan of Bruno's house, and he picks up the key Bruno sent along with it.  Finally he looks at his watch, then folds the plan and puts it in his pocket with the key. He rises, crosses to the  chest of drawers, opens the top drawer. 
INSERT: THE OPEN DRAWER 
Guy's hands take out the Luger. His hand then picks up Miriam's glasses from the drawer, holds them a moment. He is about to put them back, then decides to take them along, puts them into his pocket. 
MED. SHOT 
CAMERA PANS GUY across to the window.   He parts the curtains slightly and looks out. 
MED. SHOT ON STREET (FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT) 
Hammond is lighting a cigarette as he strolls in front of the house. 
INT. GUY'S APARTMENT 
Guy crosses to his door, which he opens surreptitiously. 
MED. SHOT CORRIDOR 
Guy glances down the stairs, then closes the door behind him quietly and moves away to a window at the turn of the stairs. 
EXT. FIRE ESCAPE 
Guy comes out of the window onto the second floor fire escape. He creeps stealthily down and emerges into a narrow alleyway. He steps back into the shadows for a moment when he sees: 
LONG SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT (PROCESS) 
The strolling figure of Hammond on the far side of the street. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                95. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy turns away and is soon lost in the darkness of the street. 
LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. A TALL PAIR OF ELABORATE IRON GATES NIGHT 
We are on the inside of the gates. We see them swing open slightly and the figure of Guy edges through them. 
CLOSE SHOT Guy leaves the gates ajar and then, taking the plan of Bruno's house from his pocket, and the key, he looks toward the house. 
EXT. STEPS LONG SHOT NIGHT 
This is a long flight of steps. Moonlit. They are lined with tall black cypress trees which throw their shadows across the steps. Guy moves out of one shadow, into another and carefully starts up the stairs. 
AT THE DOOR 
He pauses, looks about for a moment and listens. Then he puts the key into the lock, finding it with his flashlight. The door opens a few inches. He turns off the flash, and enters. 
INT. ANTONY HOME ENTRANCE HALL 
As Guy moves in soundlessly and closes the door.   He looks toward the stairs which are in shadow. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy starts up the stairs slowly.   He carries his flashlight and the plan. 
AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS THE DOG 
A huge shadow lies it the head of the stairs. As Guy comes slowly up the stairs, the Great Dane looks down at him. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org             96. 
GUY ON THE STAIRS 
He reacts to the sight of the dog, stops an instant, and turn on his flashlight. The heavy massive face of the dog looks straight down at him. Guy turns off the flashlight and after a moment of indecision starts slowly up the stairs once more, the dog watching every step he takes. 
UPPER HALLWAY 
HENNESSY (puzzled) Shut up. I'd better contact Metcalf. I should think this calls for more questioning of Mr. Haines. 
HAMMOND Questioning?     Nuts!   Let's take him in. 
HENNESSY My dear Mr. Hamond, how many times do I have to tell you that we have nothing conclusive on Haines? There's no evidence that he was ever at the scene of the crime. Can't you get that into your thick head? (quietly) Now stay put till I get back. 
As he starts away -- 
FADE OUT. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              101. 
FADE IN INT. ANTONY LIVING ROOM LATE MORNING 
Anne and Mrs. Antony are in the middle of a conversation. Anne's manner is tense and purposeful, Mrs. Antony's much less serious. 
MRS. ANTONY Oh, now, Miss Burton, really! I know Bruno's been in some very awkward scrapes, but nothing so ridiculous as a murder. (she gives a short little laugh) ANNE (desperately) But, Mrs. Antony, you've got to make him do something about this. Don't you see that just one word from him would extricate Guy from this dreadful situation? 
MRS. ANTONY (lightly) Oh, but Miss Burton, I'm sure this thing must be some practical joke. You know, Bruno sometimes goes too far. (girl to girl) Of course I shouldn't be saying this to an outsider, but sometimes he's terribly irresponsible and gets into all kinds of escapades. 
ANNE But don't you understand, Mrs. Antony -- your son is responsible for a woman's death. 
MRS. ANTONY (drawing herself up with some hauteur) Did Bruno tell you this? 
ANNE Of course not, Mrs. Antony. 
MRS. ANTONY (that settles it) Well, there you are. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org               102. 
MRS. ANTONY (CONT'D) (she sighs and rises, winding it up) Well, Miss Burton, it was very nice of you to call. You must excuse me now. I must get back to my painting. Do you care for painting, Miss Burton? I find it so soothing. (shakes Anne's hand) You must come again sometime. 
She goes out. Anne is left helpless, standing in the middle of the room. She picks up her purse and is about to go when she hears a voice: BRUNO'S VOICE Oh, Miss Burton! 
Anne turns back in direction of the voice. CAMERA   PULLS BACK until we can see the feet of Bruno protruding  from behind a chair in which he is sitting. He has obviously   heard the entire conversation between Anne and his mother.   Bruno rises. He is in dressing gown and pajamas. 
BRUNO I'm afraid mother wasn't very helpful, was she? (he strolls toward Anne) You know she hasn't been well for a long time. She's a little -- how shall I say -- confused. (shakes his head commiseratingly) Poor mother. 
Anne is too stunned to speak. 
BRUNO You know, I'm very upset with Guy. He shouldn't have sent you on an errand like this. 
ANNE Guy doesn't know I'm here, Mr. Antony. 
BRUNO He's been leading you up the garden path, I'm afraid. He must be very desperate to try to involve me. I've been protecting him ever since we had that conversation on the train and he told me how he hated his wife. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                103. 
Bruno is now standing near the   window a little apart from Anne, with his back to him. He    takes something out of the pocket of his dressing gown and   looks down at it in his hand. It is Guy's lighter.  Suddenly   he stuffs it back his pocket and turn back to Anne. 
BRUNO Why, do you know, Miss Burton, he tried to get me to go back to the island one night after dark and pick up his lighter so the police wouldn't find it? He dropped it there, you know, when -- well, that night. 
Anne's horror is growing. BRUNO The whole thing's been worrying me so much. But of course I couldn't do it, Miss Burton. It would have been too risky. And besides, it would have made me an accessory. 
Anne stares at this insane man and sinks on the settee.   She starts to cry in sheer frustration. Bruno goes to her sympathetically. 
BRUNO Miss Burton, I know how you feel. 
He puts his hand on her shoulder. Anne flings it off. There is an awkward pause as Bruno looks down at her. Then he begins to look around restlessly. 
BRUNO Miss Burton, you must excuse me. I have an urgent appointment. (looks it his watch) I must go up and change. Now, I really must go...if you'll excuse me... 
He turns, starts out of the room and up the stairs in the hall. Anne watches him. 
STAIRWAY FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT 
Bruno turns and waves to Anne from the landing, then goes on up the stairs. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  104. 
INT. LIVING ROOM MED. SHOT 
Anne slowly rises, a lonely figure in the large room, and makes her way out. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
LONG SHOT FOREST HILL STADIUM 
Grouped.   A game is in progress. 
MED. SHOT A TERRACE NEAR THE MAIN STADIUM (PROCESS) where people get refreshments.   There are various table with umbrellas. 
MED. SHOT AT ONE OF TABLE (PROCESS) 
Anne and Guy are seated at the table. 
ANNE ...And he said that if the police found your lighter there, that's all they'd need -- something to prove you were at the scene of the murder. 
GUY (grimly) That big lie about my wanting him to get it back means he's going to put my lighter on that island! 
ANNE (urgently) Guy, you'll have to get there before he does. You won't have time to play, You'd better tell them. (she nods her head in the direction of the center court) 
GUY Darling, if that loudspeaker announces that I'm not going to play, Hennessy bound to be suspicious He'd keep me from ever getting near Metcalf. 
ANNE Then I'll go. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              105. 
GUY (quickly) No, darling. (he puts his hand on hers and speaks firmly, with concern for her safety as well as for his own situation) You stay right here and help me give Hennessy the slip after the match. 
ANNE But, Guy, that'll be too late! GUY (getting a thought) Didn't Bruno say that I wanted him together there one night after dark? 
ANNE Yes. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy and Reynolds in play. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy playing hard. 
MED. SHOT 
Reynolds playing back. 
CLOSEUP 
The Umpire watching the game.   Suddenly he announces: 
UMPIRE Game to Mr. Reynolds. Games are three all... second set. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              116. 
INT. CLUB CAR ON TRAIN 
Bruno is now seated in his accustomed place in the club car. His gloved fingers are quietly toying with Guy's lighter. A passenger next to him asks: 
PASSENGER May I have a light, please? 
Bruno looks at him for a moment and then at the lighter. With great deliberation he puts the lighter away in his pocket and takes out book-matches. Lighting a match, he holds it to his fellow passenger's cigarette. 
LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS 
The game as seen from under the covered stand. 
MED. SHOT 
Anne and Barbara very tense. 
CLOSEUP GUY 
about to serve, looks anxiously across the court. 
CLOSEUP THE CLOCK 
CLOSEUP GUY 
as he serves. 
CLOSEUP REYNOLDS 
returns. 
CLOSEUP BALL 
hits the net. 
CLOSEUP UMPIRE 
announces. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                117. 
UMPIRE Second set to Haines.   Haines leads two sets to love. 
There is a round of applause. We see the heads of the two players reach the Umpire's chair. Guy, very anxious still, as he wipes his neck with a towel. 
INT. COVERED STAND CLOSE SHOT ANNE BARBARA 
Anne is speaking. 
ANNE If he wins this next set -- you'd better have everything ready. (takes bill from her purse and hands it to Barbara) Here -- give the driver this ten dollars. 
BARBARA (puzzled) I wish understood what this is all about! 
ANNE (urgently) You don't have to understand, just do it. And for heaven's sake, act natural. 
Barbara nods and goes along. 
ENTRANCE TO COVERED STAND 
Barbara smiles winningly at Hennessy as she goes through. Her interpretation of "acting natural" is exaggerated and rather comical. Hammond's eyes narrow as he looks after her suspiciously. 
LONG SHOT 
The game in progress.   Guy starts the next set.   He serves. 
MED. SHOT 
Reynolds returns. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  118. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy volleys. 
MED. SHOT 
Reynolds puts the ball in the air. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Guy smashes. 
CLOSE SHOT 
HENNESSY (a little grimly) Yeah -- I'll be with Guy. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy moving along the front of the stand making for another exit. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Barbara takes it for granted that Hennessy will accept her invitation. 
BARBARA Guy says you love steak -- rare, Medium, or well-done? 
HENNESSY I sure wish I could -- 
SEMI CLOSEUP 
Hammond is looking off.    He calls into the stand. 
HAMMOND Hennessy! 
He points off toward Guy. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 128. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy is hurrying toward the public entrance of the stand. 
SEMI CLOSEUP 
Hennessy and Hammond move off, leaving a dismayed Barbara. 
SEMI LONG SHOT 
Guy hurrying under the stand toward the waiting cab. 
MED. SHOT 
The two men hurrying after him. 
EXT. CLUB 
Guy goes to the waiting cab and gets in.    The cab moves off. 
MED. SHOT 
The two men hurry out of the club and stand helplessly looking after the departing cab. They hurry out of the picture. 
CLOSE SHOT 
We see them grab another car. It is a chauffeur-driven limousine. Hammond jumps in front and seats himself beside the driver. Hennessy hops in the back. The car moves off. 
INT. LIMOUSINE TWO SHOT 
Hennessy finds himself seated by an old dowager about seventy- five years of age. She looks startled for a moment and almost recoils from him. He shows her his badge. 
HENNESSY If you'll pardon us, madam, we need your help. We're chasing a man. 
The old lady's eyes light up. 
DOWAGER How exciting. (MORE) 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                129. 
DOWAGER (CONT'D) (she leans forward and calls to the chauffeur) Hurry, O'Toole! Hurry! 
She leans back and maintains her air of excitement as she looks across at Hennessy. 
CLOSE SHOT INSIDE THE TAXI 
Guy is busy changing his pants.    He glances over his shoulder. 
INT. CAR 
The two men looking ahead toward Guy. 
EXT. METCALF STATION 
CLOSEUP BRUN0'S FACE - ANGLE SHOOTING UP to get the peering faces behind him. Bruno still frantically trying to reach the lighter. 
CLOSEUP 
Under the grating Bruno's fingers slowly closing in on the lighter. They barely manage to grasp it. 
CLOSEUP 
BRUN0'S FACE -- triumphant. 
CLOSEUP 
Bruno's fist, holding the lighter, comes through the grating. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Bruno straightens up. CAMERA BACK as all the onlookers turn their heads in his direction. 
ONLOOKER You sure must think a lot of that -- Whatever it is. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                130. 
Bruno doesn't answer. With the lighter in his closed fist, he darts through the crowd, the people looking after him. 
LONG SHOT 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO 
in the queue of people. He is edging slowly along. He is about ten people away from the entrance. He suddenly looks ahead and sees. 
FROM HIS VIEWPOINT 
The uniformed man and the detective are talking casually to the boat men in charge of the concession. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                  133. 
DETECTIVE (to boatman) The killer is here tonight. So keep your eyes open and the minute you see him, let us know. 
CLOSE SHOT 
The boatman looks at them with an expression of alarm. 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO 
begins to look a little uneasy.    We see him begin to mentally deliberate. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy, threading his way through the crowds, conscious that he is being followed, but nevertheless, on the lookout for Bruno. 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO 
moving along the line. CAMERA MOVES IN until his head and shoulders fill the screen. He is now coming within range of the flood-lit pay-box. The light seems to creep up across his chest and slowly reveal his face. He lowers his head. 
MED. SHOT 
The boatman begins to look along the queue. There is an expression of growing recognition on his face. 
MED. SHOT 
Bruno sees this, makes a decision and casually deserts the queue of people. 
MED. SHOT 
The boatman hurries across to the uniformed man and begins to talk to him excitedly, looking in Bruno's direction. 
MED. SHOT GUY 
Coming along and looking for Bruno.    His eyes light up. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 134. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT 
We see Bruno making his way from the queue of people. 
CLOSE SHOT GUY 
calls to Bruno. 
GUY Hey, Bruno. 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO gives a quick glance back, sees Guy then he turns and looks off in another direction. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT 
The uniformed man and the boatman approaching him. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Bruno hurries on.    He stop short as he sees. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT 
Another uniformed man. 
MED. SHOT 
Bruno starts to run. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy starts to run after him. 
MED. SHOT 
Bruno is seen to jump on a merry-go-round, which is just starting. Its pace is already pretty fast. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy runs toward Bruno. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org                 135. 
CLOSE SHOT 
DETECTIVE Haines!   Hold it! Hold it! 
The detective pulls out his gun and starts to run after Guy. 
SEMI-LONG SHOT 
Guy jumps on the merry-go-round after Bruno.   Its speed is so great that he nearly gets flung off. 
CLOSE SHOT The detective fires at Guy. 
CLOSE SHOT 
The man running the machine in the center of the merry-go- round is suddenly hit in the shoulder. 
We see his goal. It is the wounded mechanic in the center, who is slightly stirring. All during this the base of the merry-go-round is skimming above the back and head of the boat man. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              139. 
BACK ON MERRY-GO-ROUND 
The two men are now in a clinch. Guy tries to fight off the maddened Bruno. They are flung between the horses, bouncing one against the other, almost half way around the merry-go- round. 
CLOSE SHOT BRUNO AND GUY 
Again they struggles between two horses. On each side of them are two young screaming girls. The two bounce from one horse to the other. 
CLOSE SHOT 
The calliope has little figures and these boat away on their cymbals almost as though they are applauding what's going on. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Underneath the merry-go-round, the boat man has made further progress. He is creeping inch by inch. His nose starts to run. He starts to fumble for a dirty piece of handkerchief. He blows his nose and then moves on. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Back above the two men swinging past the two girls on their horse and they both crash to the floor underneath another horse, upon which is riding side-saddle, a mother and her three-year-old little girl. 
CLOSEUP 
The two big heads of the men, battling. The two men roll underneath the horse's hoofs, which are seen rising and falling. They get right underneath one horse. 
CLOSEUP 
Guy has turned over on his back and his eyes look up. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              140. 
CLOSEUP FROM HIS VIEWPOINT 
We see the big horse's head above and its hoofs coming down toward the CAMERA and filling the screen. We get a faint impression of the screaming mother hugging her child to her breast, above. 
BIG CLOSEUP THE HORSE'S HOOFS 
striking Guy's head. 
CLOSE SHOT Guy wrenches himself out of this position. He rolls away from the CAMERA right to the edge of the merry-go-round. He manages to grab a rail. 
MED. SHOT 
Guy's body is flung out horizontally. We see the crowd behind back-up for fear of being knocked over. The screw of tension increase. Over this comes the sound of an approaching ambulance siren. 
CLOSE SHOT 
Bruno edges himself toward Guy. He is hanging on to the reins of a horse. His feet manage to roach Guy's knuckles. 
CLOSEUP BRUNO'S VICIOUS EXPRESSION 
CLOSEUP BRUNO'S FEET 
kicking at Guy's knuckles. 
CLOSEUP GUY'S AGONIZED EXPRESSION 
MED. SHOT 
A flash of the horror-stricken faces of the spectators seen through the whirling machine. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              141. 
CLOSEUP 
Machinery and the lever that was pulled on too fast. The Boatman's hand comes up into the picture and pulls the lever over. 
LONG SHOT 
The sudden braking causes the whole merry-go-round to topple over with a grinding roar. 
LONG SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLE The merry-go-round his keeled over. For a moment we don't know who has survived. There is a surge of people milling and shouting. Those who have jumped back out of the way when the merry-go-round toppled, now rush forward again as the cloud of dust settles. From the midway in the background others are running forward. 
MED. LONG SHOT 
Distraught parents try to force their way to their children who were on the merry-go-round, but are hold back from the wreckage by police. 
MED. CLOSE SHOT 
Guy is somewhat stunned from his fall. He is helped to his feet by some men in the crowd. His knuckles are bleeding. 
In the background people are rushing about. The crowd is in uproar as women and children are helped from the wreckage. Officials and uniformed policemen pushing back the surge of the crowd. 
AD LIBS Get back. Get back there.    Give us room here. 
Turley and Campbell rush in to Guy. 
TURLEY Are you all right, Haines? 
GUY Yes, I think so. 
Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org              142. 
Guy is surrounded by police and Campbell stands at his elbow. At this moment the boatman runs in. One of the detectives is with him. 
DETECTIVE Mr. Turley! Mr. Turley! (indicating boatman) He says this isn't the man we want. (with a nod in Guy's direction) It's the other one -- the one he was fighting with. 
TURLEY (stops to give his full attention to this unexpected bit of information) What   do you mean, this isn't the -- (turns to Guy, not quite taking it in) Not   Haines? (back to boatman) But   you said he was. You pointed him   out. 
BOATMAN No, I didn't, sir. I've never seen this man before in my life. I meant the other one. 
