S T R A N G E   D A Y S 
by James Cameron & Jay Cocks 
from a story by James Cameron 
AUGUST 11, 1993 
1:06 AM DEC 30, 1999 
Blackness.  We hear: 
VOICE Ready? 
SECOND VOICE (LENNY) Yeah.  Boot it. 
A burst of bright white static exploding across the darkness.  A high whine on the audio track gives way to street sounds and rapid breathing. 
AN IMAGE wavers and stabilizes: A nervous POV.  We're in a car, sitting in the backseat, and we're nervous, the view swinging around, showing the street rolling by outside the windows, then whipping back to the two guys in the front seat. 
Our POV looks down at a SMALL RECORDING DEVICE in "our" hands.  A red LED is flashing.  We slip the recorder into a coat pocket. 
OUR VOICE Okay.  It's goin'.  I'm recording. 
The guy riding shotgun, LANE, is just pulling a pantyhose over his head, smearing his features into a pig-like mask. He turns, DIRECTLY TO THE LENS, pissed off. 
LANE Good one, dickhead.  Thanks for waitin' till I get this fuckin thing on.  You tryin' ta I.D. me, or what? 
He tosses another pantyhose right at us and we catch it. Our POV looks down, into the pantyhose, which comes up over our field of view. 
We realize: this is not some ride-along verite video. 
WE ARE ONE OF THESE GUYS.  Real honest-to-God point of view, with no cuts, no music.  This is not film, it is human experience. 
The driver is a Hispanic guy named "SPAZ" DIAZ.  Lane is a white guy who looks very strung out.  Couple of crackheads.  The car is a mid-seventies barge, piebald with primer. 
LANE Next alley... just pull in slow. (turning to us) Hurry up will ya.  Here. 
He hands us a big stainless steel revolver.  The POV looks down as our shaky hands snap open the cylinder, check the rounds, snap it closed. 
Diaz pulls the barge into an alley.  The headlights illuminate overflowing dumpsters.  A Chicano busboy is making trash runs out the back door of a restaurant, which he has chocked open.  The busboy goes back inside. 
LANE Let's go. 
Out of the car, quickly, our own breathing loud in our ears.  We even hear our own heartbeat, racing now. Through the door, after Lane, moving fast. 
Into the kitchen.  Fluorescent glare.  The busboy turning, surprised, Lane putting the shotgun in his face.  Freezing him.  Lane puts a finger to his lips: "quiet" in any language. 
Our hand puts the magnum in the THAI COOK's face.  We get them down on the greasy floor, Lane controlling them with the shotgun.  He looks at us, snaps his eyes toward the front room. 
We hear voices as we approach the swing door.  Go through. 
Whip pan left, then right.  Scoping the layout.  Low-rent THAI place.  Red wallpaper.  Closing time.  Middle-aged Thai OWNER, by the cash-register, counting money.  Young Thai WAITRESS, cleaning up.  They look up, stunned, as we put the gun on them. 
OUR VOICE (shouting, edgy) Don't move, don't talk, don't do nothing. 
Our POV is whipping around, from the front door to the owner to the kitchen where Lane is standing in the doorway covering the cook and busboy, back to the owner as he steps back from the cash-register. 
We scoop up the big wad of bills: seven, eight hundred bucks in tens and fives. 
Now yelling, herding the owner and the waitress into the kitchen, the owner trying to calm the girl in singsongy Thai, Lane shouting at him to shut up. 
Into the walk-in cooler.  The steel door closes on four scared pair of eyes.  POV looking around, seeing... a dish-rack.  Our hand pulls out a spoon, drops the spoon handle through the hole in the cooler door-latch.  Locking them in. 
Lane heading out the back door.  Laughing, as he looks at the wad of cash our hand is waving in front of him. We follow Lane to the car.  Snap a look down the alley one way, then the other. 
Shit!  Cop Black-and-White pulling into the far end of the alley.  Heartbeat goes triple time.  Scrambling into the car. 
Door not even closed and SPAZ has it in reverse, burning rubber as he launches back down the alley. SCRUNCH!  The car grinds along one wall as SPAZ steers wildly backward.  Sparks right next to us.  Then-- KBOOM!  As we slam into a dumpster and push it right out into the street. 
The cop has his lights and siren on, and is roaring at us as SPAZ cranks the wheel and punches it down the street. He curses in English and Spanish as he weaves between cars.  We pull off the stocking to see better. 
The cop car surges onto the street behind us. 
Looking ahead.  A red light.  Cars stopped, blocking the way.  Cutting to the right, onto the sidewalk, around the cars, into the intersection. 
A near miss with cross traffic, then accelerating. Another red light ahead. 
LANE Don't stop! 
Truck entering the intersection.  Everyone yelling.  SPAZ cuts the wheel but too late... 
Clipping the truck and spinning. The street outside smearing past like the view from a Tilt-a-whirl. 
Then KBLAM!  Hitting something, God-knows-what, and launching up and over, and-- 
KRUNCH!  Crushing metal and an explosion of broken glass. 
It gets quiet and still.  Tinkling glass as Lane moves. Then SPAZ is screaming.  The car is upside down. 
TICK Come on, Lenny.  I got expenses.  I got to get this rig fixed.  Look at it... 
Tick holds up a zip-lock bag containing the Walkman-sized stainless steel CORTICAL RESONANCE RECORDER, the record deck we saw earlier in the POV.  Also in the bag is the SQUID NET, a matrix of sensors designed to conform to the human head (this is different from playback trodes).  The whole works are covered with congealed blood. 
TICK Give me six at least.  This's a good clip, here.  Gets you pumpin'. 
LENNY Yeah, well, the first part's okay. Better than the usual soaps you bring me. 
TICK Now that is cold, Lenny.  I always bring you choice. 
Lenny fishes around in a cardboard box at Tick's feet, pulling out a tape. 
LENNY Sure, like this low-grade shit here, some girl in a fight with her boyfriend... it's a test-pattern. Nothing happens.  I'm snorin'. 
TICK Hey, you're always saying, 'Bring me real life.  Bring me street life. And, like, one man's mundane and desperate existence is another man's Technicolor.' 
LENNY I said that?  Look, I'll take it for five, and you'll make out okay, because in this case it's pure cream, you don't have to cut anything back to the wearer. 
TICK Ha!  That's for fucking sure. 
LENNY What else you got? 
CUT TO: 
MONTAGE/SERIES OF SHOTS 
Lenny in his BMW, driving through the LA streets. Streetlights and neon flare across the windshield in a calligraphy of light.  Lenny works the cellular, gets messages on his DIGITAL PAGER, weaves in and out of traffic -- punches the buttons on his radio, changing stations all the time.  Raw, nervous energy: like a kid who can't stay still.  It's a hard hustle in the big food chain. 
LENNY Look, Jerr.  I'm nothing if not a man of my word.  I'll drop the money by tomorrow, next day latest.  It's a little crazed right now.  Yeah, on my mother's eyes, I swear.  Thanks, buddy. (hangs up) Prick. (to the car ahead honking) What kinda move you call that?! Lemmings. 
Lenny turns up the radio.  SELECTED DRIVE-BY IMAGES, as the talk-radio provides commentary. 
Lenny's car passing under glowing Santa Clauses on the light-poles.  Banners proclaiming the coming "Millennium LA" festivities. 
TALK-RADIO HOST ... it's a little after 2 am on December 30th, 1999... the second to last day of the whole darn century, and the phone lines are open.  Dan from Silverlake, you're on the air. 
Transition to a rougher section of town.  Buildings roll by endlessly, tagged by gangs in graphic tribal patterns. some are burnt-out ruins. 
DAN FROM SILVERLAKE Uh, hi. 
HOST So Dan, are you looking forward to the New Year? 
A building is burning out of control.  In the foreground, silhouetted, a drunk sleeps soundly on a bus-bench. 
DAN Not really.  I mean what's the point?  Nothing changes New Years day.  The economy sucks, gas is over three bucks a gallon, fifth grade kids are shooting each other at recess... the whole thing sucks, right?  So what the hell are we celebrating? 
A shanty-camp of homeless people under a freeway overpass. Homes made of cardboard and carpet remnants.  Their lives in shopping carts. 
HOST You're a glass-is-half-empty kind of guy, aren't you Dan?  Well I for one happen to think that us making it 2000 years is worth celebrating-- 
Lenny cuts him off, punching to another station, and MUSIC blasts.  Something fast... a rap-metal hybrid.  Anger and energy. 
WE CUT IN fast blitzes of images like a burst of automatic weapons fire: helicopters on patrol, people running in the streets, buildings smoldering, fists raised, shouting people, paramedics rushing a body into an ambulance, Korean store owners armed to the teeth, a body covered by a yellow plastic sheet, blood running down the gutter. Cops in riot gear, with M-16s, on patrol in a Hispanic neighborhood. 
BACK TO LENNY coming out of a bar with a nervous businessman.  We don't hear the conversation.  MUSIC OVER. Lenny palms a roll of bills from the guy as he slips a squid tape into the pocket of the businessman's suit jacket.  Lenny claps him on the shoulder and walks away. Lenny's beeper goes off and he pauses to look at the number. 
ON LENNY DRIVING. 
Ahead, through the windshield we see a police checkpoint. The cops have thrown a block across the street and are shinning their lights in the cars as they creep through. Lenny slaps his ID against the side window with one hand, not missing a beat in his conversation.  This is just part of life in LA. 
LENNY (on cellular) Jimbo.  I'm there, Jimmy.  Right now, can't you hear me knockin'? 
CUT TO LENNY working his way through a crowded club, music pounding.  Strobe lights.  We don't see much.  He hears his phone rings and pulls the tiny DIGITAL CELLULAR out of his breast pocket.  Sticks a finger in his other ear and answers. 
CUT TO LENNY, back in the BMW, on the streets.  On the move. 
LENNY -- so you line up the talent, shoot the clip, get it to me by Monday. OK?  Client wants a guy and two girls, the guy wears... yeah, I know, thinks he's being original. Girls have to be young.  So don't use your mother like you usually do. Yeah, you too, pendejo.  And no big tits... French tits.  That's it... like Champagne glasses... you got it.  What a pro.  Page me. 
LENNY PULLS UP to the security checkpoint of a gated community.  The white upper-middle class hiding behind walls and paid security. 
LORI If you read the Bible, Mark, you'd know that there won't be another thousand years.  Right now we are in the Last Days, as foretold in the book of-- 
HOST The Last Days?  You mean the coming of the Apocalypse, right?  The Rapture? 
Lenny fishes around in the glove compartment, flipping through about twenty plastic security passes for different parts of town, all bogus.  He finds the right one and flips it onto the dash. 
LORI Yes, that's right.  You only have to look at the signs... there are wars and rumors of wars-- 
The RENT A COP at the guardshack hits him with his light. 
LENNY (lying) I live here. 
The cop waves him through.  Lenny is the right color. 
HOST Now just so the rest of us know how much time is left, when is the Rapture supposed to hit, exactly? Is it midnight New Year's Eve? 
And WE CUT to a burst of news videotape, enlarged, noisy, distorted... images of a great gathering in the desert, the faithful waiting for God's sign as the millennium approaches. 
HOST Is that midnight LA time, or Eastern Standard or what?  I mean, what time zone is God in, anyway? 
She continues her run, moving away from the direction of the patrol car.  She reaches a chain-link fence.  Crying, she scrambles over it, cutting her hands and ripping her dress.  Another patrol car passes two blocks away.  She crouches in the tall grass until it rounds a corner out of sight. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  ALLEY AND STREET - NIGHT 
Iris sprints down an alley between buildings.  Rats scatter into the shadows ahead of her.  She doesn't seem to notice.  All she cares about are the police lights, and the sound of the helicopter droning, circling. 
She pauses at the mouth of the alley, scanning the well- lit street beyond.  There are people here: downtown low- life street people.  A half-block away is a brightly lit sign marking the entrance to a Red-Line subway station. 
She walks along the sidewalk, her eyes on the sign, feeling exposed as she walks openly, her heart pounding. She is a mess, but in this section of town people barely glance at her. 
LOW ANGLE on her bare feet, standing out amid the shoes and boots of winter. 
SHE CROSSES the street, and reaches the sidewalk just as a black-and-white rounds the corner at the end of the block, behind her. 
IN THE CRUISER are TWO COPS, who are scanning the street. They look intense.  Revved up.  They are BURDEN SPREG, a massive, barrel-chested street-lifer in his mid-forties, and DWAYNE ENGELMAN, an aggressive hard-on in his twenties with a brush cut, a Nautilus body, and a face like a ferret. 
ENGELMAN She's a hooker, vice'll have her in the book.  We can pick her up later. 
SPREG No.  Now. 
IRIS knows the cops are behind her.  She is terrified to turn.  Finally she can't stand it any more.  She breaks into a run.  The patrol car speeds up suddenly, roaring after her. 
Iris sprints along in her bare feet, all-out like a track runner.  The black-and-white screeches to the curb next to her and the cops jump out. 
Iris hits the stairs down to the subway station at a full- tilt boogie, knocking down some poor old guy whose groceries go flying. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  SUBWAY STATION AND TRAIN 
Iris trips on the landing, spins sprawling across the filthy tile floor, and comes up running.  Panting with fear and exertion she clears the turnstiles like a hurdler. 
The cops pound down the stairs two at a time.  Spreg draws his 9mm.  In his eyes we see an unaccountable craziness... a hunter who has as much at stake somehow as the prey. 
Street people fall back as Spreg thunders through them. They aren't about to get in the way of this juggernaut cop and his boy wonder. 
The two cops reach the platform.  No Iris in sight. 
MOVING WITH THEM as they slow to a walk, scanning.  A couple of low-lifes standing around, waiting for trains, eye them warily as Spreg gets a call on his Rover. 
DISPATCHER (V.O.) Do you request back-up? 
SPREG Negative.  Suspect is a black male, age 35 to 40.  We're handling it. 
A train pulls into the station with a whoosh of air.  A few people board.  There is only the sound of the cops' footsteps as they move along the empty platform.  With a pneumatic hiss the train's doors begin to close. 
Suddenly Iris breaks from behind a column up ahead at a full sprint.  Spreg unleashes his size 13 cop shoes, thundering along the platform to intercept her.  Engelman straight-arms his pistol. 
ENGELMAN FREEZE! 
Iris clears the doors just as they hiss shut.  Her momentum carries her clear across the car, where she slams into the far wall and staggers back, almost falling.  She gasps for breath and looks up to see... 
... Spreg crashing against the outside of the doors she just came through as the train starts to move.  He tries to force the doors apart... can't.  He aims his gun through the window. 
Thinking fast Iris dives to his side of the car and presses herself up against the solid wall next to the door, where he can't see her. 
OUTSIDE, Spreg is running next to the accelerating train. He swings his pistol, smashing the window with the butt. 
Iris screams as Spreg lunges through the opening next to her like some uniformed nightmare and grabs her.  He is still running alongside, pulling on her.  Trying to drag her right out through the window. 
She struggles.  Bites his beefy hand.  He swears and lets go.  Then makes one last grab.  Gets his fingers into her long mane of hair.  Yanks on her.  She comes half out the window, screaming. 
Then... RIP!  The hair pulls off her head. 
Spreg drops away, behind the speeding train, holding a red wig.  He looks at it stupidly, then raises his pistol and fires at Iris. 
She jerks back through the window and drops to the floor. A couple of shots hit the metal outside.  We see Iris has short hair, platinum white.  In it are a few of the many pins which held the wig securely in place.  She gasps for air, sobbing and hugging her knees, trembling all over. 
SPREG STANDS on the platform, watching the train disappear, as Engelman runs up.  Spreg looks at the wig in his hand, disgusted.  He turns it and looks inside, at the cap. 
CLOSE ON THE CAP inside the wig: there is an intricate network of sensors in a grid over the entire underside of the wig.  The sensors are connected by wires, in a pattern like the veins of a leaf, bundling to a small, flat metal box, the size of a cigarette case.  It is a SQUID NET. 
Iris was wired.  Spreg just stares at the SQUID NET, eyes going crazy wide. 
ENGELMAN Oh shit. 
CUT TO: 
EXT./ INT.  LENNY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
IT'S 4 AM.  Lenny trudges through a heavy security gate into the center court of his ratty building.  The pool furniture is in the pool.  Gang graffiti marks the walls. Bars on all the windows.  One of the doors looks like somebody opened it with an ax.  The pool lights give the place an eerie, dead glow.  Can out slick Lenny really live in this dump? 
Through a barred window we see Lenny approaching as we hear the OUTGOING MESSAGE on his answering machine in the F.G. 
BEEP.  And... 
IRIS (V.O.) Lenny, goddamn it, you got to be there, you got to help me, come on, pick up, pick up... 
LENNY It's the one thing that stands between me and the jungle. 
Max raises his double shooter. 
MAX To the jungle!  Where outa the blue some shitbird can cap you in the back of the head and ruin your whole day. 
He downs it in two fierce gulps. 
LENNY You were lucky, Max. 
MAX Yup.  So darn lucky.  I wake up with a .22-short floating in my brainpan, and a cop pension I can't live off of.  Good thing I wasn't any luckier.  Bobby!  Another shooter right here! 
Bobby pours for Max. 
MAX You seen Faith lately? 
Lenny reacts visibly to the name, his whole demeanor sagging. 
LENNY Naw.  She won't call me. 
MAX Just as well, Lenny.  You gotta get past it.  I mean sure, Faith was by far the most outstanding woman a guy like you could ever hope to get, I mean it's completely and deeply humiliating that she's gone, but it's over, campadre. 
LENNY Thanks, Max.  I'm touched by your concern. 
CUT TO: Iris, working her way from the front door, staying on the fringe of the crowd, wary, moving toward Max and Lenny at the bar. 
MAX I just hate to see you pining away. It makes me want to vomit, frankly. (philosophically) Broken hearts are for assholes. 
LENNY (seeing Iris) Hey, Iris, you okay? 
IRIS Lenny, I got to talk to you, it's serious... 
MAX (looking at her face) What happened, honey, some john get rough on you? 
IRIS (to Lenny) I mean talk private.  Please, I'm in trouble, and so is Faith. 
MAX (as Lenny reacts to the name) There it is, the magic fuckin' word. 
Lenny takes Iris by the arm and pulls her away from the bar. 
IRIS Can we go to your car?  There's something you have to see right away. 
He nods and steers her toward the front door of the Coral Lounge. 
LENNY What's going on? 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  CORAL LOUNGE/PARKING LOT - NIGHT 
Lenny and Iris come out the front door. 
IRIS It's a bad situation... if they get me I know they're going to -- OH SHIT! 
She bridles like a startled horse.  Lenny looks at what she sees: a red beam, sweeping the parking lot.  Must be the cops.  He turns back... 
She's gone.  What the hell? 
He looks back at the red light... and edges around the corner to see what the cops are up to... 
It's not a cop car.  It's a tow-truck, with Lenny's BMW on the hook.  Lenny runs to the TOW DRIVER, who looks like a biker only meaner. 
LENNY Hang on, that's my car-- 
TOW DRIVER Not anymore.  Belongs to the bank. 
LENNY Hey wait a second... 
Ignoring him, the driver has started the hydraulic lift, and Lenny makes the mistake of grabbing his beefy arm. The guy whips around, putting the muzzle of a .38 in Lenny's face. 
LENNY Oh, yeah, that's the answer!  Two million years of human evolution and that's the best idea you can come up with? (driver continues with the hoist) Okay.  Look, whattya get to repo a car?  Two hundred?  Two fifty?  I'll pay you three fifty, right now.  All you gotta do is drop it off the hook and say you came by, your mark wasn't here.  Simple.  Make a few bucks.  Do a good deed.  Huh? 
DRIVER You got the cash on you? 
LENNY I was going to write you a check, if that's-- 
The guy is getting into his truck. 
LENNY Okay, okay, I totally respect that call.  I would want cash.  They'll take my check inside... I can see you're pressed for time, just give me two minutes... here keep my watch for collateral. 
He hands the guy his watch. 
LENNY It's a Rolex.  Be right back.  Two minutes. 
Lenny gets to the front door of the Coral Lounge, turns just in time to see the tow-truck pulling out.  Lenny runs after his car, yelling, watching it recede. 
LENNY Son of a bitch! 
Lenny walks back to the bar.  He sets his Haliburton up on the truck of a car and pops it open.  He takes out a tiny digital cellular phone and dials a number.  While it's ringing he takes another, identical Rolex knock-off out of the briefcase and slips it on. 
LENNY (an arm around her like a buddy) Mace!  You're a life-saver. 
MACE (resigned) Driving Mr. Lenny. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  LIMO - NIGHT 
As Lenny and Mace cruise the night streets, passing the ongoing pageant of cops and decay.  Mace glances at Lenny, sitting next to her in front, and at his omnipresent Haliburton. 
MACE So, what's up with you?  Another busy night selling porno to wireheads? 
LENNY No, wrong... I sell experiences. Sex is only part of it. 
MACE Buncha techno-perv jerkoffs. 
LENNY Way I look at it, I actually perform a humanitarian service.  I save lives. 
MACE Uh huh, I wanna hear this part. 
LENNY Okay, take some executive... bored with his life, bored with his wife... he picks up a hooker or some girl at a bar.  Then he goes around for months, torn up worrying that he's got AIDS, that he'll infect his wife.  And maybe he really does catch something-- 
MACE Price he pays for being a scumsucking pig. 
LENNY Everybody needs to take a walk to the dark end of the street sometime, it's what we are.  But now the risks are outa line.  The streets are a war zone.  And sex can kill you.  So you slip on the trodes, you get what you need and it keeps you from jumping your tracks. 
MACE Lenny, this shit's illegal. 
LENNY Define illegal. 
MACE Me bailing your sorry pale ass out of jail twice in the last six months. 
LENNY (kidding) Yeah, but that was for love. 
MACE Define love. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  ST. JAMES CLUB - NIGHT 
Mace's limo wheels up to the hotel on the strip. 
A soberly-dressed Japanese executive is waiting next to the doorman. 
INSIDE the car, Mace spots him and scowls. 
MACE Dammit, Lenny, you made me late. 
Lenny opening the door before the car stops. 
LENNY What's his name? 
MACE Fumitsu. 
LENNY Mr. Fumitsu, good evening sir, Leonard Nero, Security Express. Lornette Mason here is just completing our routine driver evaluation.  We do it to make sure that out VIP clients, such as yourself, are always treated as honored guests.  I just need to ride up front and take some notes, if you don't mind. 
Fumitsu nods politely and Lenny opens the car door for him.  Lenny jogs around behind the car to the front passenger door. 
MACE Um, excuse me. (can't stand to say it) Sir.  Excuse me.  Mr. Nero. 
She walks calmly to him. 
MACE (hissing through her teeth) What the fuck are you doing? 
LENNY (winning smile, innocent) Coming with you. 
MACE You will not live to see the morning. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  HANCOCK PARK HOUSE - NIGHT 
As the limo stops at an elegant home in this top-bucks, old-line residential area.  There is a loud party in progress, with a couple of hundred guests spread through the house and backyard.  Mace scowls deeply as Lenny gets out of the car and starts into the party with Mr. Fumitsu. They are laughing uproariously and getting along like old friends. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  HANCOCK PARK HOUSE - NIGHT 
Mace, having a cigarette with other security drivers, watches Lenny through the tall windows of the old Spanish house.  She sees him working the room, rubbing up against the money, networking.  No dialogue.  A pantomime of Lenny working his prime turf.  She stares at him for a while, then looks at her watch.  Sighs. 
CUT TO: 
EXT./ INT.  HANCOCK PARK HOUSE/GARDEN - NIGHT 
... as a tall, stern figure suddenly slides into Lenny's path, a top cop named PALMER STRICKLAND. 
STRICKLAND Nero. 
LENNY (uh-oh) Strickland. 
Lenny looks at the envelope, which has "Nero" hand-printed in block letters.  Tex takes a pull from a flask as he takes a squid-deck out of a drawer and sticks the tape in. He puts on the headset and pushes PLAY. 
IN POV we are on a beach.  Early morning.  We are running flat out, with the wind.  Looking down... we are barefoot on the wet sand.  Foaming water races up the sand and breaks around our strong male legs.  Looking up again, to see our running companion... a beautiful lithe woman in shorts and T-shirt.  She laughs and we speed up.  An exquisite moment of pure life force. 
TIGHT ON TEX'S FACE... as a tear leaks from the corner of his eye.  He is smiling like he is listening to beautiful music.  We see the quiet magnificence of Lenny's gift. 
Tex opens his eyes.  Looks for Lenny to say thanks: but Lenny's gone.  Not a guy to hang around for thanks-yous. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  RETINAL FETISH 
As Lenny comes down the stairs from the VJ booth, tearing open the envelope.  An unmarked Squid tape falls into his hand. 
The HOUSE LIGHTS dim and the STAGE LIGHTS come up.  And Faith is standing there.  Like she beamed in.  She is wearing a revealing leather outfit, showing a lot of her milk-white skin.  Her black hair frames her eyes, giving her an intense feral look.  Faith starts to sing. Beautiful, unearthly, clear notes. 
SUDDENLY the band kicks down with a wall of thundering sound.  Faith explodes into motion.  Her body convulses like a 440 volt mainline is hooked up to her.  Her voice becomes a scream, an inchoate wail, a police siren.  The pain and rage of an entire, hell-bent tormented planet on its eve of judgment. 
Lost in the song, Faith has found herself.  She wheels across the stage, slashing her head up and down so that her hair bursts in the strobe-flashes like flak. 
A techno-erotic pagan.  A force of nature. 
Lenny is mesmerized.  He has seen this before, many times. But it always has the same effect on him.  He is transported into another world by her, a world in which there is only the two of them. 
TIGHT ON MACE, eyes on the stage... a big piece of the puzzle suddenly fits.  She's never seen Faith perform before.  Holy shit. 
Faith doesn't play to the audience, or engage them in any way.  She is merely taking what's in her head and letting it out.  She doesn't care if they are there or not.  Now shrieking into the silence after a climatic downbeat, and holding the note... holding it longer than you believe she possibly could.  Then nothing. 
When it is over she just drops the microphone and walk away.  Fuck you. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  RETINAL FETISH/BACKSTAGE & DRESSING ROOM 
At BACKSTAGE, Lenny wends his way through the warren of corridors... past dim rooms full of wire junkies and playback freaks, all trapped into Squid nirvana: post- modern opium dens.  Sinister and scary.  He glimpses Faith, going into her dressing room.  He hurries... 
... but she doesn't even look around when his reflection appears in the cracked mirror above the crummy vanity table.  She is drenched with sweat.  Spent.  Chugging a beer.  This is the first time they have been alone together in real-time for months.  Pain and the memory of joy. 
LENNY Hi, baby.  I've missed you. 
FAITH I know.  Lenny, if Tran finds you talking to me he'll hurt you. 
LENNY I'm already hurting. 
She doesn't turn.  Just watches him in the mirror.  Most of the scene plays this way.  It is a cold parody of their love-making playbacks. 
FAITH You have to go.  I mean it. 
LENNY Yeah, OK, whatever you say.  Just answer one question.  Is anything wrong?  Iris said you might be in trouble. 
FAITH (startled, turning to him) You talked to Iris?  When? 
LENNY Tonight. 
FAITH Well I haven't seen her in months. Who knows what's going on in her head.  You're really running out of excuses to come around, aren't you? 
LENNY I know you Faith.  You're afraid of something.  What's going on? 
FAITH Let it alone, Lenny.  It'll take care of itself. 
LENNY It's Tran, isn't it?  This guy is poison, Faith.  Listen to me.  He's got you walled in on all sides.  And he uses the wire too much, he gets off on tape, not on you. 
FAITH That's a good one, coming from you. 
LENNY Why don't you just split?  You don't love him, anybody can see that.  And to him you're just some kinda possession, like a Ferrari, something to show the other guys. 
FAITH He has his uses too. 
LENNY What?  He gonna record you on his label? 
FAITH Maybe. 
LENNY Come on, Faith!  He's just toying with you.  And when he gets bored, you'll be yesterday's papers. 
Lenny is right behind her now.  He puts his hands on her shoulders, tenderly. 
LENNY Look, baby, I've watched you create yourself out of nothing.  You're like a goddamn cruise missile, targeted on making it.  And you will. 
FAITH Damn right. 
LENNY It's you up on that stage, not him. You don't need him. 
She shrugs away from his touch.  Cold again. 
FAITH You have to get out of here.  If Tran catches you he'll... he's acting crazy.  He's doing way too much playback and he's getting completely paranoid.  He's such a control freak, he's even paying Max to follow me around. 
LENNY Max Pelcher?  You're kidding? 
FAITH Yeah, for about a month now.  Lenny, just stay away from Tran, okay?  And stay away from me.  Stop trying to rescue me.  Those days are over. I'm a big girl now.  Stop trying to save me, okay, because I don't need saving... Just... give up on me. 
Lenny slumps in the back seat. 
MACE You're some piece of work, you know that.  Just calmly backstroking around in the big toilet bowl, and somehow you never let it touch you. I mean, between Vice and this so- called occupation you're in now, you must've seen it all. 
LENNY I have crawled through the gutter... through every wrinkle in the human brain. 
MACE What I'm saying.  But you still come out this goofball romantic. 
LENNY It is my sword and my shield, Macey. 
Lenny finds the anonymous tape in his pocket.  He looks a it, puzzled. 
MACE What's that?  Present from Faith? 
LENNY No idea. 
He opens his briefcase, pops the tape into the deck, puts the Squid rig on and closes his eyes.  Maybe he can forget about Faith a minute.  He punches PLAY. 
POV SEQUENCE: the first thing we notice is that the POV is distorted visually.  The colors are de-saturated.  Almost black and white.  Yet the detail is crisp and clear, almost hyper-real. 
WE ARE WALKING down a windowless hallway at a large hotel. An apparently endless row of doors.  The Wearer's glance goes to the numbers on the doors from time to time. 
We come to a particular door.  There is a DO NOT DISTURB sign on the door.  The Wearer moves to the room next door. Looks both ways.  The corridor is empty. 
LENNY It's a test pattern so far. 
"Our" hands appear, quickly pulling on latex surgical gloves.  They look like male hands.  The snapping of the rubber is the only sound in the corridor.  The POV hunches down to the lock and we see the hands go to work with lock-picking tools.  Several seconds and the lock is very professionally picked. 
LENNY Alright, a little B&E action. 
We enter the dark room, which is vacant.  The drapes are open and we see city lights.  It is night.  One gloved hand picks up the guest directory and looks at it in the moonlight coming in the window: the SUNSET SHERATON. 
The Wearer drops the directory and the hands reappear holding... a black ski-mask.  He pulls it on, leaving the subsequent POV seen through the eye-holes of the mask. 
The Wearer now looks into a mirror on the dresser.  He has avoided his reflection up until now.  We see a man, dressed in a jogging suit and black fanny-pack, and of course the ski-mask.  Totally anonymous. 
LENNY Hey, getting good.  Solid suspense build. 
The Wearer crosses to the balcony door.  Opens it quietly and goes outside, moving to the wall dividing this room's balcony from the one next door. 
The Wearer climbs the railing and, six stories above the pavement, slips around the wall, stepping down onto the other balcony.  We hug the wall, looking furtively into the room.  It is a suite.  In the living room we see a woman making herself a drink at the mini-bar.  She turns... 
It is Iris.  She is wearing a T-shirt and panties. Probably ready for bed.  She looks like she can't sleep. Pours the Scotch shakily. 
CUT TO LENNY, the streetlight washing across his face.  He gets suddenly serious with a flash of premonitory dread. 
IN POV we see Iris go into the bedroom, out of sight.  We can hear the television on in there.  Using a steel jimmy the Wearer slips the latch on the balcony slider and silently opens it, slipping inside. 
We stalk quietly to the bedroom door, listening to her movements.  Water running in the bathroom.  We come around the door frame.  Bedroom dark, bathed in TV glow.  Iris in the bathroom, washing her face with cold water. 
We move toward her.  Crossing the room as she reaches for a towel.  We are now only a couple of feet away.  She comes out of the bathroom, walking right past us, drying her face.  She lowers the towel, turning away... her eyes whip back.  Widening in terror. 
She reacts with surprising speed, diving across the bed. We go after her. 
Her hand goes under the pillow and comes out with a small automatic.  She whips it around toward us but we grab it and twist it away before she can fire.  She smashes the palm of her hand into our face and rolls off the bed, lightning-fast. 
We follow her as she scrambles up, running through the bedroom door.  Across the living room and down the short hall to the front door.  Closing rapidly on her as she somehow gets the chain off the door and gets out into the hall. 
Slam!  We tackle her against the far wall of the corridor. Our right hand comes into view holding a small electric stunner.  ZAP!  We nail her right in the back between the shoulder blades. 
She sags to the floor, gasping.  We zap her again.  The Wearer's glance does a 180 both ways down the corridor... nobody in sight.  We clamp our hand over Iris' mouth and drag her back into her room, locking the door. 
ON LENNY, reacting.  Going white. 
MACE What is it? 
LENNY Go to the Sunset Sheraton.  RIGHT NOW!  Just go!  GO! 
Lenny goes back under the wire, seeing... 
WE ARE DRAGGING a semiconscious Iris into the bathroom... propping her up with her back against the white tile wall... grabbing her hands and handcuffing them one by one to the steel towel rack above her.  She is moaning.  And crying. 
IRIS (voice distorted) I haven't seen your face... I haven't heard your voice... you can still let me go... 
ZAP!  The Wearer hits her with the stunner again.  She jerks and gasps for breath.  We see our latex-gloved finger come up in front of us and hear SSSHHH. 
Moving quickly now.  Our hands unbuckle the fanny pack. Pull out something... a set of playback trodes.  Our hands place them on her head.  She stares uncomprehending. What?  We catch a glimpse of some electronics stuff inside the pack... a record deck, some wires, a small metal box. 
LENNY Holy shit.  He's jacking her in to his own output.  She's seeing what he's seeing.  She's seeing herself. 
Iris can now see herself as the Wearer sees her... wide- eyed with terror, white-lipped, weeping.  Helpless.  And she can feel what he feels. 
The Wearer's hand goes back into the fanny-pack and pulls out something else.  A black athletic headband.  We slip it over her head, down over her eyes.  A blindfold.  Now she can only see what the wearer sees. 
And also from the bag we pull... a yellow plastic object. With our thumb we extend the five inch blade of the razor knife, the type with tips that can be broken off by segments when they get dull.  It extends with an ominous clicking sound. 
We lower it toward her and cut up the middle of her T- shirt, laying it open.  Exposing her torso.  We then look down and slide the knife under the side band of her panties, slicing them off.  We put the knife up to her throat, and she whimpers, afraid to cry out, and then we draw the flat side of the blade across her body as if to tease her with the prospect of her death. 
MACE LOOKS AT LENNY'S EXPRESSION of dawning horror and pulls the car to the curb about a half-block from the Sunset Sheraton.  Lenny is hyperventilating, shifting in his seat as if ants are crawling over him.  He is experiencing the stalker's exhilaration. 
LENNY He makes her see her own death, feeds off the reaction... killer and victim merging... orgasm and agony merging.  And he records it all. 
MACE And gives it to you. 
LENNY Wants to share. 
MAX That's right.  He wants to share. Needs an audience.  This is one sick puppy. 
LENNY Why me? 
Mace is hugging herself.  Edgy and tense. 
MACE Cause you're the man, right?  The Magic Man.  If it's got something to do with the wire, sooner or later it washes up on your beach. 
LENNY I've never dealt in black-jacks. Never.  Everybody knows that. 
MAX He's skull-fucking you, bud.  Trying to get a reaction.  Maybe pushing you to do something. 
MACE Maybe he just figures Lenny will appreciate what he's created.  It's the dark end of the street, Lenny. How do you like it now? 
LENNY Jesus, Mace.  Back off. 
MACE This guy is someone you know, one of your squid-head contacts. 
MAX Problem is, Lenny knows everybody. 
MACE Take the tape to the cops. 
LENNY Uh unh.  No way!  They'd crucify me. 
MACE So some psycho wire-freak gets to keep running around-- 
MAX Naw, he's right.  They'll figure Lenny's the perp, or go through his client list, ruin his life... such as it is.  Look, I'll call the guys in Homicide... tell them she was a friend of mine and they'll keep me in the loop.  Get me the forensics and all that. (he opens his car door) Get some sleep.  I'll call you when I get something. (he starts his car) And Lenny... I'd keep moving if I were you. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  ELEVATOR AND TRAN'S LOFT 
The elevator is huge -- big enough for a truck -- and Lenny seems small in the huge space, while shadows crawl across his body as the old machinery pulls him up toward... 
FAITH, in the loft above.  She looks into the vast bedroom... 
... at Tran sitting in a chair, tranced out under playback trodes, his eyes closed.  She softly closes the sliding door and walks across the cavernous main room.  The place is lit by the flickering reflections from a series of huge television screens along both walls.  Otherwise there is little light.  The cavernous loft is sparsely but very expensively furnished.  Haute-tech design.  Total contrast to Lenny's ratty digs. 
LENNY'S POV through the cage-door of the elevator as it reaches the loft and Faith is revealed, waiting for him in the shadows.  He slides open the cage-door and she moves quickly to him. 
FAITH (whispering, furtive) You're crazier than I thought, Lenny.  Coming here... Tran's just in there. 
LENNY Iris is dead.  She was murdered. 
Faith stiffens.  We see the fear, now, exposed. 
FAITH Who did it? 
LENNY Don't know.  But this guy's real damaged goods.  Iris knew someone was after her... and she said you were in danger too. (he grabs her shoulders) Now no more games, Faith.  Whatever you're hiding, whatever's going on, you have to get out of here now. Come with me right now.  Don't even think about it. 
FAITH Then what?  Then what, Lenny?!  You going to protect me?  Big tough guy. You're a talker, Lenny.  You don't even have a gun. 
LENNY (hurt) I have a gun.  It's under my bed. 
FAITH You don't know what you're fucking with here. 
LENNY Tell me. 
A VOICE from the shadows, like the whisper of a blade in the air. 
TRAN Go ahead, Faith.  Tell him. 
Tran steps forward, totally at ease with the situation. Out of the shadows behind him step Joey Corto, Duncan and Vita Minh. 
FAITH Look, Tran... Lenny just came by to give me some bad news.  An old friend of mine has been murdered. You remember Iris? 
TRAN A tragic story, no doubt. (to Lenny) How'd you get up here? 
LENNY Charm. 
TRAN (looks at Faith) Uh huh.  Look, Nero.  I'll make you an offer. (he grabs Faith by the arm, steps closer) Take her.  Right now.  If she wants to go, if she's unhappy here, she can go.  I'll let her choose.  Faith always knows what she wants. (he turns her loose) Hands off.  See? 
Lenny glances at the open elevator right behind him.  So close.  She just has to take one step to him... and they will be out of there.  Together. 
LENNY It's alright.  He means it. 
TRAN (to Faith) I do mean it. (to Lenny) And I mean this... if Faith stays you go away and never come back. You scuttle back into your cockroach hole and never cross my vision again.  You understand? 
She glares at them both for a long moment.  Emotions play across her face, complex and unreadable.  She steps back, taking her place at Tran's side. 
FAITH I made my choice, Lenny. 
TRAN (to Lenny, nodding toward the elevator) You're going down. 
The POV backs away and -- static as the tape ends. 
LENNY, IN THE PRESENT, whips off the trodes, freaking.  He feels around his throat with one hand... can't feel anything. 
Crossing quickly to a mirror near the front door, he inspects his neck minutely.  There is a hair-line red line over his carotid.  He looks around the room wildly, his heart hammering.  Slowly, he gets his breathing under control. 
Then... he hears something in the kitchen.  A tiny click. 
His eyes go wide.  Hyperventilating, Lenny moves silently into the bedroom.  He fishes around under the bed and pulls out a GLOCK 22 .45 auto pistol.  He stalks silently toward the kitchen. 
Then he looks at the butt of the pistol-grip: no magazine. He un-stalks back to the bed and finds a loaded magazine under a bunch of dirty socks.  He inserts it quietly, wincing as he chambers a round. 
Heart thudding, he works his way to the kitchen door.  He edges around the frame, pie-ing the room.  Cop reflexes intact. 
Mace is sitting at the kitchen table, giving him a funny look.  She is drinking a cup of coffee, made from the bottle of instant on the counter.  She is dressed casually, in bicycle pants, work boots and oversized nylon jacket over a tank-top. 
MACE Whatup Lenny? 
LENNY (hands shaking) Jesus, Mace! 
CUT TO: 
INT.  LENNY'S APARTMENT 
A little later.  As Lenny tosses stuff into a folding bag: clothes, a playback deck, a box of .45 hollow points.  He grabs his grimy old Second Chance body armor from the LAPD and stuffs it into his Haliburton.  When Mace sees him do that, she knows things are freaky. 
MACE Where we going? 
LENNY Anywhere. (finger to his lips) We'll talk about it in the car. 
Mace glances around... unnerved by the possibility of audio surveillance. 
LENNY Hand me that box of tapes, will you? 
He's pointing to a shoe box full of "Faith" tapes.  Mace hands them over with obvious distaste.  He throws them in the bag, starts to zip it... 
... then sees his reflection in the bedroom mirror: something's the matter. 
MACE What is it? 
LENNY This tie doesn't go with blue! 
He yanks off the tie and grabs another. 
CUT TO: 
INT./ EXT.  MACE'S LIMO AND STREET - DAY 
Mace and Lenny drive through the streets of LA on the last day of this millennium.  There are cops in body armor and helmets on some street corners, holding automatic rifles. Helicopters orbit endlessly.  And a National Guard tank rumbles down the street.  State of siege.  The car radio is on, with KROQ's poor Man hyping the impending Millennium LA party. 
POOR MAN ... the New Years Eve mega-bash of the century.  Ten square blocks of madness, with live music, fireworks and the actual rich and famous of LA hobnobbing with us peons.  Also yours truly the Poor Man will be there at the KROQ bandshell, giving away "Millennium LA" and "KROQ 2-K" T-shirts by the truckload-- 
Lenny is keyed up and tense.  He keeps looking out the back window. 
MACE Will you relax.  There's nobody back there. 
LENNY Mace, the guy had a knife.  To my throat.  In my living room. Relaxing might be right out, okay?! 
MACE You better keep a low profile for a while. 
LENNY No shit.  You got someplace in mind? 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  BACKYARD/MACE'S HOUSE - DAY 
On Zander, face lighting up, giving Lenny a high five. Lenny drops his bag, shakes, does a little silly hand choreography -- a goof on a bro grip -- that makes Zander laugh.  Mace watches this ritual and smiles herself. Zander can call out a part of Lenny that Mace would like to see more of. 
Cecile is there, hanging out with her boyfriend CURTIS, and Curtis' friend VEJ.  These two guys are about 18, dressed in gangsta garb.  They are listening to "The Prophets of Rage" on a CD player, and watch Lenny with a dispassion that flirts with distaste. 
ZANDER What do you got? 
LENNY (pulls a tape out of his pocket) Today I have... 
MACE (seeing the tape) Lenny, have you lost it completely? 
LENNY Easy, there, Mom.  Easy.  This is audio only. (hands tape to Zander) John Coltrane.  "A Love Supreme." Give it a listen, let me know what you think, maybe you won't go for it now, but it'll get in your head and grow like a seed into something really beautiful. 
ZANDER Let's play it now! 
LENNY Later.  Your mom'n I are heading right back out. 
Groans of outrage and protestations of unfairness from Cecile, Vej and Curtis follow this bad news.  Cecile even musters the gumption to speak up. 
CECILE Hey, come on, I been baby-sitting a full 24 hours, I have to get ready for the party tonight... 
MACE Cecile. 
Mace frosts her with a look.  You don't mess with Mace. 
ENGELMAN Facing us, where we can see it. 
Lenny slowly opens the Haliburton.  He takes out the tape and holds it out toward Spreg. 
LENNY Take it and turn her loose.  Okay? 
SPREG Absolutely. 
And you see in his eyes that it isn't going to go that way.  Spreg edges forward and takes the tape.  Then he points his pistol at Lenny's head, about to fire-- 
Which is when the pissed-off Rottweiller shoots through the open gate like a black torpedo and tears into Engelman's leg.  Engelman screams in pain.  Mace twists out of his grip.  Engelman shoots the dog. 
Lenny swings up his Haliburton, using it as a shield, and dives for the car.  The case takes three rounds from Spreg's 9mm before Lenny gets behind cover. 
Mace just seems to vanish.  She reappears over the trunk of the limo and puts two rounds squarely into Spreg's chest, knocking him down.  Lenny and Mace scramble into the car, starting it up. 
Spreg sits up, pulling up his shirt to make sure his body armor stopped the slugs.  No blood.  He comes up firing. He and Engelman empty their magazines at the limo as it pulls away.  No damage.  They realize the limo is a bullet proof security model and run to their pickup truck, parked nearby, to give chase. 
Spreg's face is a mask of rage.  He slams the truck in gear and accelerates after the limo before Engelman even has the door closed. 
CUT TO: 
INT./ EXT.  LIMO AND SAN PEDRO STREET - NIGHT 
Mace has the big car floored.  She looks in the rear-view as the truck gains on them.  Mace is doing her thing... what she's trained for.  Security driving.  She whips some moves in the big car, but the truck is closing on them. 
LENNY (holding on) Oh no, we're not being followed, Lenny, Don't be so paranoid, Lenny. 
They hear rounds hitting the car, and look back.  The truck is right behind them. 
LENNY Shit! 
MACE Take it easy.  The glass is bullet resistant. 
LENNY Bullet resistant?  Whatever happened to bullet proof? 
MACE Lenny.  Calm down.  This is what I do. 
THE LIMO slides broadly through a turn, side slamming a parked van.  Mace accelerates.  The truck stays with them. 
Engelman is leaning out the passenger side window with an AK-47 assault rifle.  He rips off several burst which riddle the limo, cracking the glass in starburst patterns. The Lexan-laminated windows are cracked to hell, but the rounds don't come all the way through. 
Spreg's truck comes alongside, ramming them.  The impact drives them sideways.  Mace swerves to miss a light- standard and finds herself roaring between warehouse buildings which front the harbor. 
The truck stays right with them.  Engelman fires bursts at the tires, shredding them off the rims.  The limo thunders along on steel rims, throwing rooster-tails of orange sparks. 
Mace finds herself boxed in by the buildings.  No way to turn.  Ahead is a short concrete pier.  She hits the brakes and the limo skids on its rims out onto the pier, stopping before it reaches the end. 
They are trapped. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  SAN PEDRO PIER - NIGHT 
Engelman and Spreg jump out of the truck, taking cover behind it.  They rake the limo with bursts from their AK- 47s. 
INSIDE THE CAR.  Lenny and Mace keep their heads down below the door frame.  It sounds like they are inside a steel drum in some psychotic Calypso band.  But the armored body panels hold. 
Lenny is punching his cellular. 
LENNY Goddamnit!!  911 is busy! 
MACE It's okay, Lenny (he looks at her hopefully) They'd never get here in time anyway. 
Mace has reloaded her Sig and is trying to open the door on her side (away from the bad guys).  It is jammed from the sideswiping. 
Spreg reaches into the bed of the truck and pulls out a gallon gas can.  He uncaps it and throws it across the pavement.  It slides under the limo, glugging its contents onto the ground.  Spreg grabs a road-flare from under the seat of the truck and strikes the cap, lighting it. 
He tosses the flare under the limo... 
KA-WHOOMPH!!  The gas can explodes in a fireball.  The Continental is engulfed in flames.  From the inside all Lenny and Mace can see is fire.  All the windows are covered in roaring flames. 
MACE (matter-of-fact) This is bad. 
LENNY The gas tank's going to go any second! 
Mace slams the car into gear and floors it.  The powerful Lincoln thunders forward.  It crashes through a chain-link fence and launches right off the end of the pier.  A fireball plunging in a meteoric arc into the oily black water. 
Inside, they are slammed forward by the impact.  The car sinks. 
UNDERWATER: The car hits bottom, twenty feet down, sitting there amid the junk.  Shafts of light play down from the big streetlights at the end of the pier. 
INSIDE, Lenny and Mace are in a flooding black tomb. 
LENNY Are you out of your fucking mind?! 
MACE Fire's out, isn't it? 
She scrambles into the back seat.  She wrenches at the rear seatback, pulls it free... and crawls half-into the huge trunk.  Water is up around their legs.  She grabs her shotgun: a sawed-off ten-gauge. 
There are some homeboys chillin' on the front steps who give Mace the local hand-sign.  She returns the sign automatically as she carries Zander past them. 
ONE OF THE BOYS Yo, Mace.  Whatup wit you, homegirl? You never come roun' here no more. 
Lenny follows with his wardrobe bag.  The homeboys give Lenny the eye as he brushes past them.  Mace chills them with a glare. 
MACE He's with me. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CECILE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
A small and dingy place.  Cecile has done her best to make it a home. 
Mace and Lenny go into the kitchen and shut the door. 
He quickly sets up his playback deck on the table.  He puts on the trodes and pulls the tape out of his pocket. Then he pauses, looking at it apprehensively... knowing that it contains the answer to all this madness. 
He puts it into the deck.  The deck closes.  He punches PLAY. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Mace watches Zander lighting bottle rockets with Curtis on the balcony of the apartment... visible through the window.  Staccato fireworks nearby sound like automatic weapons, making her flinch.  She goes back into the... 
KITCHEN.  Where she sees Lenny sitting at the table, trodes in his hands.  Stunned.  Face the color of old cement.  Hands shaking. 
MACE Tell me. 
LENNY I can't tell you.  You've got to see. 
MACE Uh unh.  I won't do it. 
LENNY Mace.  I know what you think about the wire.  But I'm asking you to do this.  It's that important. 
Mace sees how serious he is.  She nods: OK.  He puts the trodes on her. 
LENNY Sorry this has to be your first playback. 
He hits play and Mace reacts as the sensory input hits her.  She opens her eyes... 
LENNY Keep your eyes closed, or you'll see double. 
She bites her lip as the sensation of being another person floods through her. 
POV SEQUENCE: We are Iris.  Riding in a car.  Fixing our makeup in a mirror on the passenger side sun visor.  Iris flips the sun visor back up, revealing the moving street. It is night. 
We look down, and recognize the dress Iris was wearing when we first saw her, two nights ago.  She puts her lipstick into a purse which is belted to her waist.  Iris turns her head and we see the driver. 
It is JERIKO ONE.  He is laughing, talking to someone in the back seat.  Iris looks and we see REPLAY, Jeriko's sideman, and another woman, DIAMANDA.  They are amorously entwined.  Then they are all laughing and passing around a bottle of Jim Beam.  The car stereo is thumping loudly. 
Iris' POV swings around and looks down, seeing Jeriko's hand caressing her thigh.  She puts her hand on his chest and leans close to him.  Jeriko grins, then looks up and swears at a wash of red/blue cop flash. 
JERIKO Shit.  Fuckin' Five-O 
Our POV swings to the rear-view mirror and we see an LAPD car behind us, with the gumball machine on.  A spotlight hits us and we hear a single whoop on the siren.  Jeriko pulls over, but they are on an overpass... no shoulder. 
COP VOICE (on bullhorn) Go to the bottom of the ramp. 
Jeriko and Replay are both swearing.  He pulls the car down the ramp, stopping on a deserted street in a warehouse district.  Our POV looks around nervously. Black shadows and concrete pillars.  No-one around.  Cars whoosh by on the bridge above but they might as well be on Mars.  The car is stopped next to a train yard.  We hear the rumble of diesels nearby, the clank of freightcars. 
We see the outlines of TWO COPS advancing through the beam of the spotlight, their guns drawn. 
JERIKO (jumping out of the car) Goddamn, now what you pull me over for?  If I was going any slower I'd be parked-- 
COP VOICE 1 Get down on your knees and put your hands on your head.  Now! 
COP VOICE 2 Everyone else, out of the car and down on the ground. 
Our POV comes up and out of the car.  Jeriko is righteously pissed off.  He's not following orders. 
COP VOICE 1 Put your hands behind your head right now! 
He goes along, madder than ever.  The cops get Replay down on his knees as well, in the wet gutter next to the curb. 
The cops are closer now.  We see that they are SPREG and ENGELMAN. 
ENGELMAN (to us) Put your hands on the hood of the car and don't move. 
We exchange a look with Diamanda.  Fucking cops.  But Jeriko is winding them up.  Not giving them the pleasure of the humiliation.  You can see it escalating. 
JERIKO I suppose you stopped us cause you had suspects fitting our description in the area, what you're gonna tell me.  What was the description?  Two black males in a car?  Yeah, right, I heard that one before... 
As Engelman pulls out Jeriko's wallet, looks at his ID, Jeriko checks name tags. 
JERIKO Well you stopped the wrong black male tonight officer... what is it? Spreg.  Officer Spreg.  Cause I'm the 800 pound gorilla in your mist, fucker.  I make more in a day than you make in a year, and my lawyers love to spend my money dragging sorry-ass Aryan robocops like you into court.  Get a man down on the ground with no probable cause.  Fuck you! 
SPREG Shut the fuck up! 
MACE (steely) Listen to me, little sister. There's something going on, and it's very big.  Now you've got to take care of Zander.  And stay off the streets tonight... you hear me on this? 
Cecile gets the message.  She nods. 
MACE Curtis.  What about you?  Do we understand each other?  You stay put. 
CURTIS Yeah.  I'm wit it. 
Mace and Lenny go on down the steps to the car. 
CURTIS (to Cecile) Damn!  She worse than you. 
CUT TO: 
INT./ EXT.  CIVIC AND STREET - NIGHT 
Lenny and Mace see helicopters circling as they maneuver the dark streets.  Xenon searchlights crisscross the rooftops nearby.  They see patrol cars passing on cross- streets, lights flashing.  It feels like the entire LAPD is looking for them. 
Everywhere in the street there are small crowds, street parties in progress.  People drinking and firing bottle rockets.  The police watch everything. 
LENNY So, let's see, I've got Tran's goons, some squidhead psycho and the LAPD all trying to kill me.  Happy new year, Lenny. 
MACE Well, look at the plus side. 
LENNY There's a plus side? 
MACE Yeah.  You gave up your hot tub tape to save me.  That's real progress for you. 
LENNY It was a tough call. 
MACE I still can't square the psycho smarts of whoever did Iris with those two cops. 
LENNY I don't think those cops did Iris. I think whoever Iris was wearing for killed her. 
MACE Why? 
LENNY To break the trail.  If those cops had gotten hold of her, they would have beat it out of her who she was wearing for, and then gone after them too.  Our killer is running as scared as we are.  Which makes him really dangerous.  Judging by how scared I am. 
They pull up to the checkpoint; Lenny squirrels into the seat, hiding in the shadows, as Mace flashes her security pass and the cop waves them on. 
Lenny lets his breath out slowly. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  UNDERGROUND GARAGE/TICK'S VAN 
Lenny and Mace pull in with a SQUEAL of brakes and park the car.  Sound of rock music -- some kind of refried psychedelia -- coming from Tick's van down the ramp. 
Mace and Lenny get out, approaching the van.  Hearing tires squeal, they turn to see Max pull up.  He gets out wearing an ill-fitting rental tux.  Music louder, echoing in the empty garage, even though the van is shut tight. 
MAX Sounds like Tick's already celebrating. 
LENNY You may be a little overdressed for this party. (Lenny pounds on the van door) Yo, Tick!  It's Lenny.  Open up! 
Mace slips out her .380, on alert. 
LENNY (knocks again, then opens rear van door) Tick, I got to talk to you, man... oh shit. 
Tick's slumped in the back of the van with playback trodes on his head.  He's breathing, but otherwise he's still. Near lifeless.  A cyborg after a power outage.  All the equipment in the van is trashed. 
LENNY (as he starts to examine Tick) He's been cooked-off 
MAX Is he dead? 
LENNY No.  But his frontal lobes are like two runny eggs.  They put an amplifier in-line to boost the signal till it french-fried his brain. 
Mace hits "Off" on the built-in CD player.  The sudden silence is creepy.  Lenny gets right in front of Tick's eyes, shouting at him, at the top of his lungs. 
TICK'S POV: We see a roaring blizzard of inchoate static. Somewhere in the middle of it is a suggestion of Lenny's face, almost invisible.  We hear the tiniest ghost of his voice, like a radio playing two blocks away. 
LENNY He's totally cut off from the outer world. 
MACE How long does it last? (off Lenny's look) Oh. 
MAX Those two psycho cops are on a slash-and-burn to find the tape and cover their tracks. 
MACE This seems a little sophisticated for them.  These are not subtle guys. 
MAX There's more to this whole thing than you think. 
LENNY Whattya mean? 
MAX All I'm saying... you don't know how high up the food chain this thing goes.  I've heard stuff. 
LENNY What stuff? 
MAX Smoke.  Rumors.  I've heard stuff about a death squad.  A group a guys loyal to the hardline school.  Guys that've had too many years of city hall and the review boards and the goddamn media pissing down their necks, suspending cops right and left, tying their hands... while outa the other side a their mouths these same people're squealing save us, save us, do something you fucking morons, crime is totally out of control. 
Lenny takes this in.  All the fight goes out of him.  This is just too overwhelming. 
Max shows up suddenly, right in front of him.  Stopping him. 
MAX Tran, listen.  I was wondering how you want me to work it tonight, down at the Bonaventure.  You want me downstairs at the party or upstairs at the suite?  Where you going to be, mostly? 
CUT TO: 
INT.  TEX'S ROOM 
While Max stalls, Faith talks. 
FAITH Tran and Jeriko weren't getting along.  He was afraid Jeriko was getting ready to dump him, but he wasn't sure, so he started with the surveillance.  A couple nights ago he wires up Iris and sends her and the other girl, Diamanda, over to Jeriko's table. 
CUT TO: TWO NIGHTS AGO, Iris, wearing a wig, leaves Tran's table with Diamanda and moves toward... a booth in the Retinal Fetish where Jeriko One sits with Replay.  Iris stands over Jeriko for just a moment.  Then he nods, smiles a little, and moves over to make room for her in the booth right next to him. 
FAITH That night Iris calls up, freaking. She comes over and Tran watches the tape.  He just loses it.  He can't believe the disaster she's gotten him into.  He's terrified the cops will beat it out of her who she was working for, and come looking for him. 
CUT TO: TRAN'S LOFT as a tear-streaked and frantic Iris is telling Tran about how the cops tried to kill her (we don't hear).  Tran backhands her furiously, his face thin- lipped with rage.  She crumples to the floor, sobbing. Tran keeps looking at the squid tape in his hand like it's poison. 
LENNY Kinda guy you can count on in a pinch. 
MACE Why didn't he just go public with the tape?  Save himself that way. 
CUT TO: An image of Tran burning the squid tape.  It blazes in his hand and he hurls it into the fireplace like a venomous snake. 
FAITH The scandal would wipe him out.  If it got out that he had his own artists under surveillance... he'd lose all his other acts.  He'd be over. 
Now we see Tran, more composed, comforting Iris.  He wipes at her tear-streaked face.  Hands her a wad of bills. 
FAITH So finally he gives Iris some cash and tells her to check into the hotel under a wrong name till he figures out what to do. 
LENNY Yeah... he figured out what to do all right. 
FAITH You think Tran killed her? 
LENNY The killer knew right where she was. Because he put her there. 
FAITH What a nightmare. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  MAIN FLOOR 
Tran impatiently gestures to Corto. 
TRAN Go get her, Joey.  Stupid bitch. (to Max) We'll talk about this later. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  TEX'S ROOM 
Mace is getting the sixth sense feeling that seconds count. 
MACE Come on.  We're out of here. 
Lenny gets close to Faith, taking her face in his hands. 
LENNY Leave here with me, right now. 
Mace sighs heavily, rolls her eyes toward the ceiling. Faith considers her options.  Then she smiles at him. 
FAITH Okay, Lenny.  My guardian angel. 
Faith hugs him, and he clutches her.  Mace locks her jaw and looks away.  This is hard for her. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  CORRIDOR 
Mace leads the way, with Lenny following, gripping Faith's hand like Orpheus leading Eurydice out of Hell.  They push through shapes of people in the thundering dark corridor. Half-lit, in alcoves, far-gone wireheads loll in semi- consciousness.  Faith looks back and sees: 
TRAN'S POSSE rounding a corner... spotting them.  They start shoving through the crowd like juggernauts, knocking protesting people out of the way. 
Mace, Lenny and Faith break into a run, pounding down the corridor. 
Behind them, Duncan leads the charge.  Suddenly TEX ARCANA shoots into the hallway, intentionally blocking their path with his wheelchair.  Duncan crashes over him, toppling the chair, and they both sprawl to the floor.  Vita, Beemer and Corto go around the sprawl. 
Tex, like many legless men, has incredibly strong arms. Lenny looks back to see him pounding Duncan's head against the floor... 
TEX Teach you... (pound) to mess with... (pound) a helpless cripple! 
Lenny et al reach the main floor of the club where they shove through the buffeting crowd amid strobe-flashes and a wall of sound. 
Behind them we see Corto and Beemer hurling partiers aside, cutting a swath, while Vita moves like a mongoose through tall grass.  Mace drops back, going tail-end- Charlie... her bodyguard mode kicking in. 
ON LENNY AND FAITH, charging through the jostling crowd, Lenny is looking back, then he looks ahead and... 
TRAN is right in front of him.  In the whirling shapes and colors of the crowd, he is an island of composure in a white tux.  He holds a glass of champagne in one hand, the bottle in the other.  In one lightning-fast move he uppercuts with the bottle, clipping Lenny under the jaw. Faith screams as Lenny staggers.  Tran swings again, smashing the bottle over the back of Lenny's head.  Lenny sprawls on the floor amid champagne foam and glass. 
Lenny, blood flowing in his eyes, rises blearily to see Faith being pulled away by Tran, who has her arm twisted viciously behind her back.  They go around a chain-link divider and double back, heading for the exit.  Lenny staggers to the chainlink, sagging to his knees again as Faith passes within a few inches of him.  He slips down the chainlink, into unconsciousness, as her image is lost in the pounding darkness. 
MAX (V.O.) I intend to. 
Lenny punches END.  Mace looks at the number written in blood on the white formica.  Her eyes ratchet up, boring into Lenny.  Not noticing, he gets up, still woozy, and staggers to his wardrobe bag across the room. 
LENNY Okay, we gotta get over there. (opens the bag) Can you borrow a dress from Cecile or something-- 
MACE I'm not going. 
LENNY Whatya mean?  We're going!  Tran's gonna do her right there unless-- 
MACE Lenny... shutup.  Just park your mouth and listen.  It's a set-up. Think about it!  Why's he been sending you tapes?  To freak you, get you to rush in without thinking. Then they put one in you, put one in her, put the gun in your hand... crime of passion.  This guy's bent enough to think of that. 
Lenny nods, hearing what she is saying. 
LENNY That sounds right. (but it changes nothing) I'm going. 
He reaches into his wardrobe bag... pulling out the box of "Faith" tapes and setting it aside, then pulling out the suit.  Mace's frustration explodes as anger. 
She grabs his shoebox full of tapes.  Holds them up to him. 
MACE You gonna get yourself killed for this?  This toxic-waste bitch! 
She dumps the box of tapes on the floor.  She starts stomping on them with one heel, crunching several into junk. 
LENNY What the fuck are you doing?! 
Lenny freaks out and scrambles to pick them up, trying to stop her, push her away.  They struggle for a pathetic, tragic moment. 
Mace snaps.  She grabs him by the lapels and swings him around, slamming him back against a wall. 
MACE Lenny!  This is your life, Lenny! Right here.  Right now.  This is realtime... not playback.  Real... time.  Time to get real.  Understand what I'm saying... she doesn't love you.  Maybe she did once, I don't know, but she doesn't now.  These are used emotions.  It's time to trade them in. 
Mace's tone becomes more gentle.  We see that her outburst is, beneath it all, coming from a place of compassion. 
MACE Lenny, memories were meant to fade. They're designed that way for a reason. 
Lenny seems to crumple.  He knows he has to let go.  But it is so painful. 
LENNY Have you ever been in love with somebody who didn't return that love? 
Mace gives him a look like, jeez Lenny, are you dumb sometimes. 
MACE Yeah.  Lenny.  I have. 
LENNY It didn't stop you from loving them. Right?  Or understanding them, or being able to forgive them... 
MACE I guess. 
LENNY And it didn't stop you from wanting to protect them.  Did it? 
MACE No.  It didn't. 
Lenny's eyes are brimming with tears.  He makes no attempt to hide it... doesn't brush them away. 
LENNY I worked Vice, Narcotics... Violent Crimes... and I saw every known depravity.  I was lost, Mace.  In outer darkness.  Then I busted this strung-out little teeny-hooker. When I met Faith she was just another runaway giving twenty dollar blowjobs to buy crank.  Another lost soul. 
MACE You never told me. 
LENNY But she was different.  There was a light in her eyes... and she had this voice.  It was scary, all that pain coming out of that little body. Like she could take all the hurt and rage of the entire world and lift it up to heaven in one voice.  I helped her.  And I promised her that I'd always be there... to protect her. (long pause) See?  It's not about what's in her head.  It's what's in mine.  I can't let go of the promise.  It's... like... it's all I have left. 
MACE No, it's not. 
Mace takes his face in her hands.  She kisses him lightly on the cheek, where the tear-track is. 
MACE Come on, Lenny.  Let's go to a party. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  STREET AND BONAVENTURE HOTEL - NIGHT 
11:07  P.M. 
IT IS THE MOTHER OF ALL PARTIES.  IN AN AERIAL SHOT we see there must be 100,000 people jamming the closed streets of downtown L.A.  Arc lights sweep the sky.  There are two outdoor bandstands, with live music pounding.  There are lasers, strobe-lights.  People are literally dancing in the streets... if they can move at all.  Huge projection video screens are set up all over the place. 
LA is connected to other cities all over the world by satellite, sharing in the celebration in different time zones.  The excitement has been building all evening as midnight sweeps across the country toward the West Coast. It looks like a U2 concert 10 blocks long: a multimedia blow-out. 
Madness in the streets.  And Lenny and Mace are stuck in it.  The Civic can't move in the middle of this millennial Mardi Gras.  People swarm around, pounding on the Civic as they go by, or press their faces against the glass.  It may be the party of the century, but it looks like the middle of a third world revolution. 
MACE That's it.  Let's bail. 
And she's out of the car, leaving the keys, ignoring the protesting horns behind her.  And we see that she's wearing a short black cocktail dress.  Lenny comes around the car, through the wild crowd.  He's in his other suit. Snappy. 
Mace unselfconsciously hikes up her dress and slips her .380 auto into a holster velcroed to her leg.  She pulls the dress down and you can't see the gun, hidden between her upper thighs. 
In fact, it looks like she couldn't be concealing a quarter anywhere on her body.  The dress is cut low at the top and high at the bottom, showing plenty of muscular legs.  High heels doing great things for her calves.  Her braids now loose and full, like a mane. 
Lenny glances at Mace and does a double take.  He is caught by a sudden realization: 
LENNY Mace... you're a girl. 
INT.  BONAVENTURE ELEVATOR 
It is a glass-cage scenic elevator, running up the outside of the building.  10th floor.  The last passengers step out.  When the doors whoosh closed and Lenny's left alone there's only the sound of Muzak Christmas carols.  The elevator rises, the lights of LA spread out below.  He is hyperventilating. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  HOTEL BALLROOM 
Mace threads her way past tables circling a dance floor full of dancers and makes her way through celebs air- kissing each other. 
But as she gets near Strickland's table, he stands up and excuses himself.  He starts toward the men's room.  And Mace follows him. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  MEN'S ROOM/HOTEL 
A few guys in tuxes tending to themselves.  Strickland enters, crossing to a urinal.  He unzips. 
Mace steps up beside him.  Guys behind her looking on, slack-jawed.  Mace pays no attention to them.  Strickland, stern and flinty-eyed, raises one eyebrow. 
STRICKLAND Yes? 
She puts the playback deck on top of Strickland's urinal. He scowls. 
MACE There's a tape in there you need to see.  I mean right now. 
While see is looking at Strickland, a young LAPD OFFICER comes out of a stall, and goes to the sink.  He glances in the mirror at Mace. 
STRICKLAND If it wasn't New Year's Eve, I'd arrest you for possession of illegal equipment-- 
MACE (interrupting) Just look at the tape!  You want to know who killed Jeriko One?  Go in the stall right now and hit Play. 
The young cop steps up behind her. 
YOUNG COP Sir, is there a problem here? 
Mace turns.  Oh shit.  She backs away from them. 
MACE Damn!  I knew it-- 
Strickland motions with his eyes and the cop grabs for her.  Mace twists viciously out of his grip, knocks him down and vanishes out the door. 
STRICKLAND hefts the recorder, pondering it.  His expression is opaque. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  HALLWAY/BONAVENTURE HOTEL 
Lenny comes out of the elevator.  Standing at the corner, where he can watch the elevators and the corridor, is Wade Beemer.  Lenny doesn't break stride.  Just walks toward Beemer.  He's not afraid anymore.  He's pissed off. Beemer moves toward him. 
LENNY Now, Wade, can we talk here, like two human beings-- 
We think he's starting the usual negotiation.  But when he gets in range he lets fly with a line-drive right, straight into Beemer's face.  We're talking a John Wayne haymaker punch.  He staggers back, surprised and dazed, and Lenny knees him right in the gut as hard as he can. 
He drops to his knees, sucking wind.  Lenny draws his Glock and puts it behind Beemer's ear, pulling a pair of handcuffs off his belt.  Okay, we're starting to believe he might have been a cop once. 
LENNY It's not personal. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  BALLROOM 
Mace, moving fast as she can through the crowd and past the tables when... 
... she's grabbed by DUNCAN.  He gets her in a good tight come-along.  Like any good security person, the hold is not so obvious that the party around them is disrupted. VITA MINH steps up next to her, closing ranks. 
MACE IS WALKED around behind the bandstand.  Joey Corto walks up to her, looking mean and smug. 
Mace twists one hand free and snaps it out in a blur.  Her open palm breaks Corto's nose with an audible crunch. Corto screams and grabs his face. 
CORTO Aw, not the fucking nose!! 
She slams her foot down on Duncan's instep and snaps her head back simultaneously in a reverse head-butt.  He keeps the hold.  Mace drives her free hand back into the approximate position of his nuts.  Even though Duncan looks like he bench-presses Buicks, this has the desired effect. 
Mace jerks away from him, shoving him back through a buffet table.  Vita draws a knife in a lightning move but... 
Suddenly Mace is standing there with her dress hiked up and her pistol straight-armed, with the muzzle right in her face.  Vita says the smartest line of the night. 
VITA Hey, enjoy the party. 
Mace spins and sprints through dumbfounded glitterati, her gun innocuously tight to her side.  She spots a red "Exit" sign above a fire door and goes through. 
CUT TO: 
INT.  STAIRWELL AND PENTHOUSE/BONAVENTURE 
Lenny closes the stairwell door, giving us a quick glimpse of Beemer handcuffed to the steel railing.  Lenny moves down the empty corridor. 
He approaches suite 2203.  The door is ajar.  Always a bad sign. 
The last thing he expected.  Lenny leans close and sees that Tran is breathing shallowly, but his eyes are vacant. He looks like Tick did. 
Lenny sits on the bed and puts the trodes back on.  The fireworks and screaming outside sound like some nightmarish war, like the sound of the world coming to an end.  But all Lenny cares about is what's on the tape.  He hits PLAY. 
THE POV CONTINUES where it left off.  Faith's body lurches with the Wearer's thrusts.  His hand tightens the belt. 
Lenny feels the climax building. 
Faith's body shakes as the killer comes... she cries out herself, in pain... or is it?  The killers hand releases the belt.  We see Faith gasping for breath and moaning. 
Suddenly the POV whips sideways to the mirrored closet doors along one wall.  In the mirror is a reflection of the bed and on it Faith.  And on her... 
... MAX. 
Pants down, her legs pulled up around him.  They are both gasping for breath, spent, following their shattering orgasms.  He runs his hands over her sweat-slick belly. 
LENNY is stunned beyond his power to imagine.  He does not have the strength or the will to stop the tape. 
IN POV Max's hands remove her blindfold.  She looks right at us, still gasping with the aftershocks of her pleasure. Max's hands undo the handcuffs, freeing her.  She reaches for us, her eyes glittering with sated lust.  We slump forward onto her, and her face fills the POV. 
FAITH I love you. 
Lenny is reeling with these revelations.  His best friend is the killer.  And the woman he loved loves him.  But the tape is not over... 
THE POV CONTINUES as Max's eyes whip around in response to a sound behind them.  The bedroom door is opening.  Tran is standing there, stunned.  Maybe the first time he's ever been surprised in his life.  What a way to start. 
Like lightning we are off the bed snatching our .45 from the night stand and whipping around... putting the muzzle right in Tran's face.  We pull him roughly across the room, too stunned to resist. 
TRAN You're going to die, you're both going to fucking die. 
We slam him back against the mirror wall and jam the muzzle of the gun right in his mouth: a deadly gag.  Using the gun we push him down until he is sitting on the floor with his back to the mirror. 
Our eyes whip to Faith.  She is freaking out.  We see Max's reflection in the mirror as he talks to her, talking fast. 
MAX This piece of puke hired me to kill you, baby.  Do you believe that? Isn't that right, Tran?  You pinhead. 
FAITH Oh my God.  I don't believe this is happening. 
MAX Believe it.  Now bring me the trodes, baby.  Come on, quick. 
FAITH What're you going to do? 
Still in a kind of stupor, she hands him the trodes.  Max puts the trodes on Tran's head, then pulls something out of his pocket.  It is a booster box.  He plugs it into the deck.  He takes the gain control and cranks it all the way up.  He's setting up a cook-off.  Tran's eyes go wide when he figures that out, starts to splutter. 
FAITH You can't just... kill him. 
MAX I'm not.  Just a little poach job. 
FAITH Jesus. 
MAX Hey, he was going to kill you.  And this ratfuck paid to have Iris killed, to save his own sorry ass. 
Tran freaks at that point but Max jams the gun deep into his throat, up to the trigger guard, choking off his words. 
MAX You shut the fuck up, right now, I'm gonna pull this fuckin' trigger! 
K-BANG!  Faith shrieks, thinking Max shot him.  But it's just the start of the fireworks outside (remember all this has already happened relative to Lenny entering the suite). 
MAX Look, baby, it's now of never... the guy is a known input junkie, so a little OD won't surprise anybody. It's the only way we can be together.  You know it's true. 
FAITH My God. 
We don't know if her reaction is to the horror of what is about to happen, or to the realization that she has the capacity to let it happen. 
MAX Here's how much I love you, baby. 
She stares, transfixed, as Max reaches for the deck.  He punches PLAY.  Max puts his hand over Tran's mouth to muffle his screams as the input hits his brain like a screaming chainsaw of static from Hell.  The screaming outside, the pandemonium, give the moment a special madness. 
The POV turns, looking out the window... staring fixedly at burst after burst of brilliant fireworks.  Like the fireworks inside Tran's head. 
THE TAPE ENDS. 
Lenny takes off the trodes.  He is wrung out, drenched with sweat.  We see that there is a figure standing in the doorway behind him.  Lenny turns, not surprised to see Max there with his .45 aimed at Lenny's chest.  Max's surgical gloves look incongruous with his tux. 
MAX Don't make any assumptions about our friendship, Lenny. 
Lenny stands up, slowly. 
LENNY No.  I suppose not.  I didn't know you were colorblind, Max. 
MAX Only way I could stand your ties. 
Max moves up to him cautiously, and takes the Glock out of Lenny's waistband. 
MAX I'll have that.  Glock 22.  Nice. 
LENNY Where's Faith? 
MAX I sent her to the party.  I figured I'd wait up here until you killed Tran. 
Faith runs her hands appreciatively over Max's shoulders and arms.  Then, in an eyeblink, she grabs his forearm in both hands and deflects the gun. 
FAITH Lenny!! 
Lenny jumps in, wrestling Max for the gun.  Faith pulls the Glock out of Max's waistband and throws it across the room. 
MAX Fucking bitch!! 
BLAM!  BLAM!  Max fires wildly, trying to hit Lenny, who is just barely keeping the muzzle out of his face.  Faith grabs Max's hair, trying to pull him away... 
His "hair" comes off in her hands.  A prosthetic wig, containing the squid-net array.  Max's head is shaved to a Sinead O'Connor stubble.  He looks demonic, grimacing with effort as he struggles with Lenny. 
He continues firing.  The shots hit the mirrors.  ANGLES of the reflected images of them shattering.  Faith, screaming, reflected, her face fragmenting into shards. The crystal chandelier shatters, reigning glassy snow on them from above. 
Max is stronger and heavier than Lenny, but Lenny has one advantage: Max has managed to make him really angry. Lenny gives a guttural cry and drives Max backward into the doorframe.  They tumble together into the living room, falling together over the couch.  Lenny pounds Max's hand against the glass coffee table, shattering it.  He forces Max's hand along a glass edge, cutting it, and Max drops the gun.  Lenny reaches for it, but Max kicks it away a split-second before his hand touches it.  It skitters under the couch, out of play. 
Max punches Lenny brutally in the face, then in the gut, and grabs him with both hands.  He hurls him against the wall.  Lenny staggers off the wall into several vicious punches from Max.  We feel the tide turning.  Lenny goes down to one knee. 
Max pulls out his knife and flicks it open.  Lenny throws a lamp.  Max ducks and charges through.  Lenny spins away from the downthrust. 
The knife embeds itself in his shoulder blade, sunk into the bone.  Lenny punches Max in the throat and jerks away, pulling the knife handle out of Max's hand.  Max tackles him and they crash together through a sliding glass door onto the balcony.  Explosion of flying glass. 
Max pulls a dazed Lenny to his feet and rushes him backward toward the railing.  At the last instant, Lenny twists with all his strength and spins Max into the railing, using his weight against him.  He pushes hard and Max topples. 
As he is going over, Max grabs Lenny's tie, pulling him over.  Max is dangling 12 stories above the oblivious crowd, his entire weight hanging from Lenny's tie.  Lenny has one arm and one foot hooked around the railing, and he is being strangled by the tie. 
Lenny is starting to black out.  In agony he gropes with his free hand to his own shoulder blade, finding the handle of the knife.  He jerks it out of himself.  Max sees it coming a split second before it happens. 
Lenny slashes the knife across the tie, just above Max's hands. 
Max takes the express elevator to Hell.  He hits 12 stories down, on top of a video truck. 
Lenny stands there panting, bleeding down the back of his jacket.  Faith runs to the railing and looks down.  All the strength goes out of her legs.  She sags to the floor. Fireworks continue to boom across the sky. 
Lenny looks down at her, gazing at the object of his quest.  She looks up at him, her wet eyes seemingly at the bottom of a deep well from which he cannot save her. 
He turns and walks away.  It's hard.  But he keeps walking. 
CUT TO: 
EXT.  STREET - NIGHT 
DOWN BELOW, in the madness of the crowd, we move with Spreg as he searches for Mace.  He sees her from behind, walking near one of the stages.  He moves up behind her, aiming his pistol at the back of her head.  She turns and... 
... it isn't Mace.  Another girl in a similar dress. Spreg curses and looks around. 
Engelman catches a glimpse of Mace running.  He points to her position and Spreg charges after her.  He has his baton laid back along his forearm and is clubbing people out of the way as he runs. 
Mace sprints barefoot through the crowd, pushing people out of her way.  Strobe-lights from the stage and flashes from the fireworks give the crowd a nightmarish look. 
Spreg fires at her.  People drop, their screams drowned out by the pandemonium.  The gunshots don't register above the concussions from the fireworks.  No one notices the shootings.  Spreg continues to fire, missing her as people block his shots.  Mace won't fire back in the crowd. 
ON SPREG, coming to a stop at the base of a lighting tower.  He has lost sight of her.  He starts to reload his pistol.  Mace comes up to him silently from behind the tower and hammer punches him behind the ear with the butt of her pistol. 
Spreg comes around with a roar, slamming the baton across her forearm.  Her .380 clatters to the ground.  Mace bodyslams him back against the steel tower, smashing her palm up under his chin.  His head raps off the metal. Mace is like a she-panther.  She rips the baton out of his hands and cracks him once across the windpipe.  He drops to his knees, gagging and unable to breathe. 
A shot hits the metal space-frame next to her head.  She spins to see Engelman, charging toward her.  Before he can fire again she drops behind the kneeling, gasping Spreg, using him as a human wall.  She clamps an arm around his neck, controlling him, and pulls his tazer from his belt. 
She shoots Engelman in the chest from 8 feet.  He convulses and drops instantly to the pavement, flopping like a fish.  She holds the current on him while she goes over and kicks his gun away. 
She takes Engelman's cuffs from his belt.  Spreg glares at her through the blood running into his eyes.  She raises the baton. 
MACE All the way down!  RIGHT NOW!! 
He slowly drops to the pavement, face down.  Now that she's got them both proned out, she quickly handcuffs one of Spreg's hands to one of Engelman's. 
The crowd of partiers stares.  Can't believe what they're seeing.  Mace takes Spreg's cuffs and attaches his other wrist to the base of the tower.  That's when THREE LAPD COPS in riot gear burst through the surrounding crowd and see a black girl crouching over two of LA's finest with a police baton.  The cops advance toward her. 
MACE Wait.  Let me tell you what's going on here-- 
The nearest shoots her with a tazer.  She spasms and goes to her hands and knees.  One of the cops kicks her down. She cries out, trying to explain, but she can't get the breath as the batons start to fall.  The crowd around them watches fascinated, gasping. 
Mace sees another cop arrive and start to uncuff Spreg. 
MACE NO!!  NO!!! 
They crack her with their batons, telling her to stay down.  Another one kicks her in the stomach. 
A BLACK KID in the crowd leaps onto one of the kicking cops. 
And then they come out of the crowd... one, then three, then half a dozen.  Just normal people... black, white, Latino people... that can't watch this happen any more. They jump the cops, swarming them, wrestling them down. It becomes a brawl. 
Then cops are running in from everywhere.  We see the trigger point of a full-scale riot.  Cops in full riot- gear, with Lexan shields, push the crowd back, clearing a space.  A helicopter XENON comes straight down from above, like the divine light of God. 
Mace hugs herself, at the center of it, unable to get up. Within seconds there are twenty cops there, and more on the way, forming a human wall.  They get the crowd settled down. 
Through the phalanx of riot cops comes Palmer Strickland and several ranking officers.  He surveys the scene. Strickland looks down at Mace and then at Spreg and Engelman, who are getting to their knees, though still handcuffed to each other and the steel tower.  The beat extends... Strickland unreadable, face stern as Moses. Then... 
He points at the two prone cops. 
