THE STUNTMAN 
Written by 
Lawrence B. Marcus 
Adaptation by 
Richard Rush 
From the novel by 
Paul Brodeur 
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT 
THE STUNTMAN 
FADE IN: 1    EXT.   ROADSIDE DINER - EARLY MORNING 
A strip of two-lane highway runs through a tall pine forest. There is a truck-stop coffee shop beside the roadway. A few 14-WHEELERS are scattered across the big dusty parking lot. Morning sunlight glints off their chrome stacks. It bakes the asphalt and warms the mangy hides of stray DOGS asleep in the dirt. A HELICOPTER hovers about the treetops like a lazy hummingbird. It's the beginning of a perfect day. 
A highway PATROL CAR slowly trolls among the trucks and dogs and parks beside the slat and shingled building. 
TWO TELEPHONE LINEMEN are scaling a power pole at the forest's edge. 
2    POWER POLE - ANGLE ON TELEPHONE LINEMEN 
High on the pole, the linemen lean back against their safety straps to work, their bodies forming a "Y." One of them suddenly turns, pointing at a nearby treetop. 
FIRST LINEMAN Lookee there! 
He grabs a PORCELAIN INSULATOR from his belt, cocks his arm and hurls it across the open stretch. It lands smack in the middle of the tree. SQUAWK! A rattle of leaves, a rustle of feathers and a HUGE BUZZARD comes flapping out. The lineman cackles over his marksmanship. 
3    CLOSE ANGLE ON BUZZARD - MOVING SHOT 
The big, frightened beady-eyed bird is lumbering through the sky, flapping for its life and suddenly...SPLAT! It crashes head-on into 3A   the bubble of the passing HELICOPTER. 
4    INT.   HELICOPTER 
The ship rocks as the PILOT wrestles the controls. There are THREE OTHERS in the cabin. The man beside the pilot, ELI CROSS, is sketching in a manuscript and eating an apple. He glances up in irritation. 
ELI Hey, will you stop wiggling?! 
PILOT Don't yell at me...yell at the goddamn crazy bird! It tried to kill us! 
ELI (back to his manuscript) Oh yeah, that's your story. What's the bird got to say about it? 
Eli bites into his apple, grimacing at the mushy mouthful    He tosses it out the hatch. 
5   EXT.   FOREST - TREETOPS 
The apple drops into the trees, bounces down from branch to branch and falls on the slanted roof of the ROADSIDE DINER beneath. It rolls down the eaves, off the edge and lands on top of the parked Highway Patrol car. 
6   INT.   PATROL CAR 
FIRST POLICEMAN Something hit the roof. 
SECOND POLICEMAN So will the Chief...if we don't grab this guy Cameron. 
They climb out as we see a SECOND PATROL CAR sliding up behind them. MORE POLICEMEN emerge from the second car. 
7   EXT.   DINER - ON POLICEMEN 
They huddle, then move toward the diner entrance.     As they pass an open WINDOW the CAMERA HOLDS. 
INT.   DINER 
A FRY COOK serves behind the long counter where MEN on stools eat watching the overhead TV. There is a PINBALL MACHINE in action. The policemen are seen ENTERING b.g. A TRUCK DRIVER ambles up and straddles a stool. 
TRUCK DRIVER Gettin' hot early. It's gonna be a scorcher. 
The fry cook fills the driver's empty water glass from a pitcher, then move down the counter. 
9    ANGLE ON CAMERON 
He sits a few stools away. He's about 25, even-featured, bone- weary. His appealing face needs a shave. The cook fills his water glass. The ice cubes rattle as Cameron's hand trembles. His eyes are riveted on the policemen. 
10   CAMERON'S POV 
Two policemen take seats at a booth across from the counter; one policeman moves to a WALL TELEPHONE, another stands near the CASH REGISTER looking at a magazine. They seem nonchalant, but are placed to block all avenues of escape. 
48   ANGLE ON HELICOPTER 
As it touches the ground and its doors fly open. Out step the CREWMEN and ELI CROSS. The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR rushes up and shouts over the hissing blades of the idling chopper. 
A.D. What happened on the bridge?! 
ELI (deeply upset) All the divers found in the car was the goddamn camera. 
A.D. (stunned) And Burt? 
ELI (anguished) No Burt! All gone...caught in the current probably and...they're diving downstream and searching the riverbanks, but...don't say anything to the crew yet... 
A.D. (softly) Jesus Christ. 
ELI Yeah, Jesus Christ. 
A.D. What do you want to do? 
ELI I don't know...call my mother and have her tell me it wasn't my fault... (desperately) ...What the hell could have happened? 
Their words are lost in the sound of the rotor as the chopper slowly rises. The sudden WIND from its blades blows some screening off a pile of equipment. It falls on the Little Old Lady who has been approaching Eli and topples her into the surf. She is trapped in a tangle of ancient skirts and petticoats. Before she can regain her balance, a wave tumbles her further into the sea. 
49   ANGLE INCLUDING CAMERON 
Cameron, sitting on the edge of the pier over the water, has watched this mini-disaster. The undertow from the wave has swept the Old Lady directly beneath him. Reaching down toward her, he yells: 
CAMERON Hey!   Hey, give me your hand! 
He can't quite reach her. As a last resort, he drops off the edge into the water by her side. 50   ANGLE ON WATER 
He grabs for the struggling Old Lady. 
CAMERON Don't be afraid! You're gonna be okay. 
Like groping through seaweed, he reaches past her tangled skirts, grasps her waist and lifts her to keep her head above water. She is choking, gasping for air. She turns her face toward him. 
51   CAMERON'S POV 
Her features are distorted; they seem to be melting away. She frees her hand and violently tears at her face, pulling away the RUBBER MASK on which is the melting putty and make up. With it goes her wig and what is left is a startlingly beautiful young girl. 
CAMERON My God! (choking on water) You're...I know you...that girl from TV...the actress. Nina... 
NINA (sputtering) ...Franklin. 
The sun glistens on the wet, wild young perfection of her face, ingenuously sparkling laughter and for an instant it's breathtaking - a universal boyhood fantasy to suddenly be thrown this close to that kind of "movie star" beauty. It's something Cameron feels in the pit of his stomach. 
CAMERON My God!...Why the hell...? 
NINA (laughing and choking) ...Makeup test...it's for the film... 
Regaining his composure enough to attempt flattery, but he means it. 
CAMERON They gotta be crazy to cover that face. 
NINA (laughing) I'm only old at the end of the story. 
As they are only in a few feet of water, there is no longer any reason to hold her. He starts to put her down. 
NINA No, don't do that.    Rescue me! 
CAMERON In three feet of water? 
NINA Oh come on, please. I always wanted someone to rescue me from something... 
Grinning, he carries her toward shore. 
ANGLE ON BEACH 
Eli, surrounded by the crew and dozens of tourists, is standing at the water's edge as Cameron wades in and sets Nina down. 
ELI Nina! You damned near scared me to death! 
At the sight of Eli, she becomes like a little girl who, having skinned her knee and run to daddy, now can allow herself to cry. 
NINA Oh hell, it's all ruined now and I wanted you to see the makeup, Eli. Where were you?...I even got Raymond's autograph and he didn't know...You'd have been proud... 
Nina is surrounded by people who are rubbing her with towels, taking pictures, all shouting at once. The CROWD closes in, excluding Cameron to the outskirts. 
ELI (to the A.D.) Get her into a tub, then bed...and I want to see her in makeup and costume again before dinner. 
THREE CREWMEN hustle her off, as she searches the crowd for Cameron...then spots him. 
ELI Jake, it's been a rotten morning. You're hot and tired. Let's go in, have us a drink and find out what's eating you. 
JAKE (turning beet red) Don't treat me like these other morons! You know goddamn well what's eating me is that Duesenberg on the bottom of the river with the dead man in it! 
There is silence. Eli stands thoughtfully kicking the sand with his toe. Then Jake starts shouting again. 
JAKE (CONT'D) I mean, that is a goddamn public bridge and a public river! You go there without permits, without any precautions and get a man killed! 
ELI (gently) Jake... 
JAKE No more bullshit explanations. Just go...before I figure out how to hang you with a manslaughter charge! 
ELI 
(after a pause; quietly) No explanations...don't have any. But, maybe he does... (staring at Cameron) Go ahead, ask him, Jake. 
Eli's words are exploding in Cameron's mind -- that illusory event on the bridge has crystallized into hard reality. 
CAMERON (wide-eyed) ...Now wait!...You're not blaming me for... 
ELI (wheeling on Cameron) Why not, Burt?! Because you're a fake?! Because you're just a goddamn daredevil with a head full of marbles?! 
Cameron vaguely understands that Eli is trying to pass him off as Burt and that he, somehow, may be saved by going along with this madness. Eli, turning to Jake, continues passionately... 
ELI (CONT'D) He grabs the bread, blows the shot, screws you up...screws me up. He's dumb, Jake, but thank God, he ain't dead yet. So do me a favor, put your handcuffs on this son-of-a- bitch and put him some place where he can't get hurt! 
The Chief is dazed. If this is Burt, the stunt man, he is obviously alive. Jake goes to Cameron. 
JAKE How did you get out of the car? 
ELI He didn't get out. Our divers got him out...and brought him back in the chopper. 
The Chief stares at Cameron. His clothes and hair are wet. There is a small bruise on his cheek from when he fell out of the Duesenberg. He looks the part. Jake turns to Eli with resignation. 
JAKE 
Cross, when these three days are up, I'm going to arm my men with shotguns and tell them it's open season on any fruit carrying a camera. 
He walks to the waiting police car, surrounded by TOURISTS snapping pictures. He glares at them, angry at the world. Eli puts his arm on Cameron's shoulder and leads him through the dispersing crowd toward the hotel. Eli is now easygoing and friendly. 
ELI You did that very well. 
CAMERON I didn't get a chance to say a word. I just listened. 
ELI There are only a few actors in the world who have mastered that art. Anyway, it was a good audition. You landed the part. 
CAMERON How? What about the crew? They going to look at me and say, 'Hi, Burt?' 
ELI Unless you prefer, 'Hi, Elizabeth.' Don't worry about my crew, they'll call you anything I want 'em to. Look, I'm not being callous. Burt is a fucking tragedy, but there's nothing in the world I can do about it...I've gotta have this location for three more days...and you need a place to hide. 
They have reached the steps of the HOTEL. A BUS has stopped in front. TOURISTS are piling out. The POLICE CAR pulls up and parks nearby. Jake and his men can be seen surveying the crowd. 
A.D. (shouting in b.g.) Eli! The crew's waiting.   We need the next setup! 
ELI 
The hand! Close-up of the hand!      Be there in a minute! 
A.D. An Eli minute or a real minute?! 
Eli turns back to Cameron as they mount the steps. 
CAMERON By tomorrow the local cops'll know what I look like. I can't hang around. 
ELI (expansively) "Burt," stop worrying! Haven't you heard of "movie magic?" (pointing to the etched glass doors of the hotel) That door is "the looking glass," and inside...is Wonderland. You're gonna pose as a stunt man, who's posing as an actor, who's posing as a character in a movie...who's posing as an enemy soldier...In that big a crowd, who's gonna notice you? People like to believe in things and cops are just people. 
The have reached the front door.   Eli holds it open for Cameron. 
ELI (with mock confidentiality) Frankly, your problem's so simple, it's almost beneath me. Have faith, 'Alice.' Close your eyes and enjoy. 
In exhaustion and resignation, Cameron nods and wearily closes his eyes. 
SCREEN GOES BLACK 
DENISE'S VOICE Open your eyes...and don't touch. It's wet. 
56    INT.   HOTEL BASEMENT - CLOSE ON CAMERON'S REFLECTION 
His eyes open. He stares at his face in the mirror, pleased at the subtle transformation. His hair has been cut shorter and dyed red, somehow changing his whole aspect. He rubs the red mark on his wrists where the bracelet has been removed. 
56A   WIDE ANGLE 
ELI (CONT'D) That's what our film's about -- or didn't you know? (sees Cameron) Hey, Burt, come over here. 
Cameron crosses to them. He and Raymond stand appraising each other, red-haired men in identical uniforms. As Raymond offers his hand: 
RAYMOND (to Eli) My new cock and balls? 
ELI (quickly) Not new...It's important not to let that get around as yet. So, for the time being, let's make like he's the same guy. (adding a touch of color) But no longer known as "Bad-assed Burt." Ever since his 'fortunate rescue,'...we call him "Lucky." 
62   EXT.   CHURCHYARD - ANGLE ON CHUCK - LATER THAT DAY 
CHUCK BARTON is a tall, rugged-looking man in his mid-thirties, the Stunt Gaffer on Eli's film. A MESSENGER trots up and presents a receipt book. Chuck sets down his stunt bag and signs it absently. 
MESSENGER Your film from that camera in the Duesenberg's on the way to the lab. Put it on the plane with my own little hands. 
CHUCK 
When do we get it back? 
MESSENGER Don't know. Stamped it "rush." 
CHUCK If I stamp "rush" on my mare's ass, she'll still take eleven months to foal. Call the lab and find out when! (quietly) I lost a man today. I wanna see that footage and find out why. 
As the Messenger leaves, Chuck strolls over to where Cameron stands waiting, circles around him, sizing him up. Cameron is no longer wearing the uniform, but now is in jeans and a work shirt. 
CHUCK Done any stunt work? 
CAMERON Not really. 
CHUCK Not really?   You have or you haven't? 
CAMERON (good-naturedly) I got out of Vietnam in one piece. Let me tell you that wasn't a bad stunt. 
CHUCK (skeptically) That's ancient history. 
CAMERON Seems like yesterday. 
CHUCK (pointing at church steeple) Could you jump from that tower to the that roof? 
63   ANGLE ON CAMERON (AND STEEPLE) 
Gauging the fifteen-foot gap between the CHURCH STEEPLE and the roof of the nearby MUNICIPAL BUILDING. He unconsciously grimaces at the four-story drop between them. 
CAMERON (being glib) Once, to save my ass, I jumped out of a banana tree into an oxcart full of buffalo shit. Does that count? 
CHUCK We'll see.    Put these on. 
He throws Cameron some knee pads from his stunt bag and begins marking off two lines on the bare earth between the gravestones in the churchyard. 
CAMERON (puzzled by the pads) Where do they go? 
CHUCK (tapping his knee) Under the pants. (pointing to lines he has drawn) I want you to jump from here...to there. 
Cameron hops up to the starting line, finishing with the knee pads clumsily, surveys the distance of not more than seven feet. 
CAMERON Okie-dokie. 
Makes a casual jump, landing on the line and looking at Chuck for approval. 
CHUCK Very good. Except you're dead!! Your brains are scattered all over the goddamn pavement. You landed on the edge and fell backwards four stories. Where do we send the body? 
CAMERON (returns to the starting line) Don't bury me yet. 
He takes a running start and leaps hard.    While he's still in mid- air, Chuck yells. 
CHUCK You're still dead! You fell over the other side of the building. 
Cameron has landed three beyond the mark and looks up at Chuck a bit shaken. 
CHUCK (CONT'D) You wanna try it right, once? You should land in a tuck-and-roll. 
CAMERON Show me, sergeant. 
Chuck launches himself head-first. His hands touch the ground just beyond the second mark to break his fall, easing him into a shoulder roll, he somersaults to his feet. 
CAMERON Very fancy. 
He takes a running start and does the same.   Not quite as well, but well enough. As he rolls to his feet: 
CAMERON Okay? 
CHUCK Better. 
For an instant, the inmates stop in stunned silence -- broken only by a distant shout overhead. 
CAMERON'S VOICE (on the roof overhead) ...Six-fucking-hundred, gorgeous, beautiful dollars! I can't believe it! 
The slavering madmen look up, then out at the camera, madmen no longer, simply bewildered actors. 
ELI'S VOICE All right. Hold it! Hold it! 
ANGLE ON CREW 
Eli stands amidst the camera crew photographing the scene.   He is waving for order. 
ELI ...Save it, everybody. 
A.D. (storming in) Jesus Christ, what the hell was that? Somebody get their ass up on that roof... 
ELI (cutting him off) ...Never mind. I didn't like it anyway. 
As Eli steps down from the DOLLY, a solemn, quiet man approaches him from among the onlookers. It is SAM BAUM (the writer). 
SAM What's wrong? 
ELI The scene's wrong. (yells to the A.D.) Call a break. 
The A.D. Calls "Five minutes" and the crew moves toward the coffee urn. Eli wanders toward the door, Sam pursuing. 
SAM (fighting for his scene) Eli, it played like a dream.   My God, it was Marat-Sade. 
ELI (glumly) It played like shit! 
SAM (desperate) Well, who was that on the phone in the middle of the night when you first read it, raving about the magical madhouse scene, the upstairs maid? 
Eli rips the page with the "madhouse scene" from his screenplay as they stride out of the building. 
69   EXT.   MUNICIPAL BUILDING 
There, beside the rear entrance on a pile of construction sand, sits Eli, cross-legged, staring morosely at some kids who play nearby. He is absently folding a torn script page into a paper airplane. Behind him, at a respectful distance, stand the Production Manager, A.D., half a dozen assorted crew chiefs and Sam Baum, all looking concerned. Sam looks at the others, shrugs and approaches Eli, squatting beside him on the sand pile. 
SAM What do you wanna do, Eli?... They're all waiting. 
While Sam talks, Eli takes a fistful of sand and pours it in Sam's shoe. Suddenly noticing, Sam yanks his foot away. 
SAM (CONT'D) (irritated) Being childish isn't going to help your movie...You know, there's nothing wrong with the story. (removing his shoe and shaking the sand out) The real problem is since I wrote this thing two years ago, you've had Watergate, the energy crisis, Women's Lib, the economy is down the tubes...You want to talk about burning issues?...There's arsenic in the glue on the back of food stamps! That's why you don't like the "madhouse scene." Your goddamn war story has lost its relevance. 
ELI Don't be negative, Sam. We can start a new one in time for the preview. 
Sam has finished replacing his shoe and Eli pours a fistful of sand into Sam's other shoe. 
SAM Cut it out, will ya? 
70   INT.   HOTEL DINING ROOM - THAT NIGHT 
Eli is at the head of a long table, CAMERA PULLING BACK TO REVEAL a dozen members of the company dining with him. Nina sits beside Eli listening with rapt attention to Sam's monologue, her dessert fork sensuously lingers at her lip. 
SAM Two years ago you were all charged up to make a great big anti-war statement and they wouldn't let you. Now they let you, but you haven't got a war. What you've got is egg on your face because Vietnam's long gone and it's too late! 
ELI Our picture's not about fighting wars... 
SAM Oh? 
ELI ...It's about fighting windmills. 
The truth in Eli's statement registers on Sam. Cameron sits farther down the table, watching Nina watch Eli...and wishing she were watching him. 
ELI War isn't the disease...It's only one of the symptoms. 
SAM (hooked) What's the disease? 
ELI That's the big question, Sam. Name the disease and you've licked the screenplay. (indicating Cameron) Ask him. 'Cause he knows what the film is about. Right Lucky? Tell 'em...How'd you like Vietnam? 
CAMERON How'd you like bubonic plague? 
ELI You drafted? 
CAMERON No. 
ELI See, Sam? Here's another one who hates war...but he enlisted. (to Cameron) You fought in Vietnam for two years? ...I mean actually were out there killing people... 
CAMERON ...Hey, I didn't kill that many people... 
ELI Don't be modest, Lucky. Everybody digs a little violence...What was that you said on the beach? 
ELI Looks like a nice clean-cut kid. 
JAKE I know about fifty guys who don't think so. 
ELI What'd he do? 
JAKE (to Production Manager, ignoring Eli's question) The minute that film gets here you give me a call. 
CAMERON (yawning and rising) I don't know about those fifty guys, but I know one weary guy who's gonna crawl upstairs and hit the sack. 
Eli looks at Cameron with grudging admiration. 
GABE I know a weary guy who's driving to Cape Long to dance and booze all night... 
RAYMOND 
(camping, takes Gabe's hand) I know a weary gay who's going with him! 
They mince off (the fag act all the more amusing because of Raymond's strictly masculine looks). Eli shouts after them. 
ELI So long as you're back in ninety minutes. It's a work night for some of us. (loftily) ...Those who give a shit. 
Raymond "gathers" Nina along the way, wrapping his arm about her shoulders -- Cameron watching silently. Then, charging from across the dining room like a tanker steaming in their wake, comes a gushing, overwrought, blue-rinsed MATRON. 
MATRON Miss Franklin! Miss Franklin! Your 'Feminique Spray' commercial is on TV. My God, it's simply heavenly! 73   INT.   CAMERON'S HOTEL ROOM - CLOSE ON DRESSER - NIGHT 
Drawers are slamming open and shut as Cameron hurriedly stuffs his few belongings into his pockets. 
WIDER ANGLE 
It's a mean little bedroom, with Sam's clothes, typewriter, etc., in evidence. Seeing Sam's wallet, Cameron pulls a wad of money from it, at the same time accidentally knocking Sam's false teeth off the dresser. He hesitates, then stuffs back all the bills but a twenty. He strides to Sam's closet, pulls out shirt and slacks, stuffs them in a cloth beach bag, also belonging to Sam and starts out the door. Then he stops, gets on his hands and knees, looking for the false teeth, which he finally finds. Now, annoyed at himself for being a "nice guy," he throws them carelessly on the dresser and quickly exits. 
74    EXT.   HOTEL - LATER THAT NIGHT 
As Cameron moves down the steps, the returning company STATION WAGON pulls to a stop in the driveway. Nina, Raymond and a few others emerge from the car. Cameron turns away so as not to be seen as they pass him on the steps heading for the entrance. 
DENISE Bet they're looking for that nut who killed all those campers in Montana... 
RAYMOND (drunk) ...Too many campers, weed 'em out! ...Imagine, sitting an hour at a roadblock. 
NINA We should have waited, it wouldn't have been an hour. 74A   They've entered the hotel. Cameron continues to the bottom of the stairs, hesitates, looking back at Nina. 75    CAMERON'S POV 
Silhouetted through the etched glass doors (on the other side of "The Looking Glass") he sees the lithe, gay, exquisitely beautiful figure of Nina -- light sparkling from the cut glass dances about her face -- a hauntingly romantic image. 76    ANGLE ON CAMERON 
He watches for a moment with hopeless longing. Finally, turning from her, he looks about at the dark water and deserted boardwalk. There come some of Eli's crew, laughing, joking, cutting a swatch through the stillness, pushing their heavy brutes toward some nearby spot to light a night shot. There's the CHURCH TOWER. He stares at it, wavering in his resolve to leave, wondering what would happen if... 
NINA'S VOICE What next? Do you rescue the maiden from the tower? 
She has come up behind him, unnoticed.    He turns, startled, and there she stands. 
CAMERON (smiles) Hi. 
For a moment they search each other's eyes -- for intentions.   Then she glances at the tower. 
NINA Yes. It does look pretty high. (with concern) Are you worried about tomorrow? 
Cameron's mind is racing over all the things he'd like to say so she would know him instantly. But his answer is simple and sounds sincere. 
CAMERON Not much. I guess if there were any real danger, Eli wouldn't let me do it, would he? 
NINA (quickly, reassuring) No. I'm sure it's safe. 
CAMERON (abruptly, with a boyish grin) Good. Then you jump. 
NINA (laughing) Okay. 
She understands the slightly jealous rebuke for her blind faith in Eli. Her laughing answer hangs like a challenge. 
CAMERON Well, come on. 
NINA (willing, but flustered) What, right now? 
For a moment he weighs it: whether to "run" or stay. Then acts on his decision. Starting to laugh, he takes her hand and pulls her toward the tower. She holds back, struggling playfully. 
NINA (CONT'D) Wait, I'm afraid of heights!   What if I freeze up? 
CAMERON (pulling her along) Don't worry, I'll give you a push. Isn't that what a pal's for? 77   INT.   BELL TOWER - NIGHT 
It is crowded with bells, a small walkway and railing surrounded them. The city lights are seen beyond. Below are the sheds where crewmen are preparing the next day's shooting. Just beyond is the overwhelming silhouette of the huge CRANE. Nina and Cameron reach the top of the stairs winded and laughing, as they rush to the railing and lean over. Nina gasps, clutching Cameron in genuine fright. 
NINA (gasps) Oh, my God! It's terrifying! You can't jump from this...you'll get killed! It's crazy!... 
He pulls Cameron into the basket beside him so unexpectedly that Cameron drops Sam's bag. Eli picks it up and plops it into Cameron's lap. Suddenly Cameron finds himself soaring skyward at a stomach-churning rate -- while Eli rattles on...probing, disarming, quixotic... 
ELI (CONT'D) You constantly amaze me. You don't go to movies. What's that tatoo, a disguise? You a Commie? Don't you know that King Kong was only three feet tall? He came up to Fay Wray's belly button. If God could only do the tricks we can. What are you worried about the film and the cop for? 
Now, hanging ten stories above the city, Eli is adjusting his viewer, looking at a cluster of RED FLASHING LIGHTS IN THE DISTANCE. He hands the viewer to Cameron, who looks through it. 
81A   We see a telescoped view of THE POLICE ROADBLOCK at the end of a highway with cars waiting to get past ARMED POLICE. 
CAMERON'S VOICE (muttering) What am I worried about the cops for? 
ELI'S VOICE Another one over there. 
81B   THE VIEW WHIPS to a second police roadblock at the other entrance to town. 
ELI'S VOICE (CONT'D) It's a pair. 81C   TWO SHOT 
CAMERON (puts viewer down) Is this my present? 
ELI No, your present is a piece of good advice. 
CAMERON Keep it. 
ELI (patting Sam's beach bag) You've got that look again. That gleam of the sprinter about to set a record for the 50-yard dash. Is that why all those cops are chasing you? What are you, some kind of sex freak running across America with your fly open? Is that why they're after you? 
CAMERON You're close. What's your advice? 
ELI Button your fly and be at the airport on Sunday at three o'clock with the rest of the crew. Climb aboard our chartered 707 and fly away with us to where the setting sun bleeds into a million swimming pools a man can hide in. You do swim as well as run? 
CAMERON (overwhelmed by the offer) I'll swim like a fish. You really mean it? (Eli nods) Why are you trying to save my ass? 
Eli hesitates, then answers quietly -- for him there is great meaning in it. 
ELI ...Because you're as crazy as the guy I'm doing the picture about. (then grinning archly, the mood broken) ...Besides, I've fallen madly in love with the dark side of your nature. 
82   EXT.   CHURCH TOWER - NEXT MORNING - BRIGHT DAYLIGHT 
The thunderous clang of bells! Cameron ready, coiled tight, heart pounding as loud as the bells. A burst of machine gun bullets tears through the railing beside him, sending splinters flying against his face. 83   CAMERA CREW 
HARVEY (Second Unit Director) and CAMERA OPERATOR behind the MITCHELL, looking up tensely. Harvey gestures, yelling. 
HARVEY Now! 
84   IN BELL TOWER 
Near Cameron, the SECOND A.D., crouched out of sight with a walkie- talkie, stabs a finger at him. 
SECOND A.D. Go!...Go! 
A burst of tracer bullets streak past Cameron. Sparks fly, as stray bullets seem to bounce and ricochet off the bells. 85   MACHINE GUN 
A 50-calibre MACHINE GUN, a SPECIAL EFFECTS MAN in Levi's and sport shirt, pumping tracers past the bell tower. 86   TWO SHOT - BELL TOWER 
The Second A.D. slams his hand down on a PLUNGER, setting off a series of explosive squibs. Like machine gun bullets, they start shattering the railing, moving toward Cameron, forcing him to the edge of the tower. 
Vaulting over the rail, he clings to the side of the bell tower. Explosive bursts disintegrate the railing in his hand. He shoves out, launching himself into space. Twisting, hurtling across the gap between the buildings, falling, crashing to the slate roof, crawling and scrambling for a hand hold. The relentless tracer bullets chip the slate beside him. Crouching low, Cameron, like an animal, moves across the roof to the safety of a water tower. Squibs burst over his head and spouts of water stream from the tower. 
Moving around the tower, suddenly there are TWO GERMAN SOLDIERS running at him with bayoneted rifles. He wheels and there stands ANOTHER GERMAN (Chuck), who leaps toward him, slamming down his rifle butt. The blow glances off Cameron. They grapple, kicking, clawing, rolling down the steep slope, picking up momentum. 87   RAIN GUTTER 
The roof's edge rushes toward them, below it a fearsome drop. Cameron's hands reach out desperately grabbing for the railing as Chuck, screaming, hurtles off the edge, writhing as his body tumbles in space toward the ground. 88   CAMERON 
Sweat pouring from his face, a gash on his cheek gushes blood, his eyes glazed, he pulls himself back on the roof. CATCHER 
Chuck, lying relaxed on the straw and mattress safety pad which caught him on the ground, looks up, cups his hands and shouts at Cameron. 
CHUCK Go!...Go! 
90   ROOF 
Cameron, running for his life along the edge of the roof, the soldiers shooting down at him from the roof's peak. He reaches the far end, looks down. There is the awning jutting from an adjacent wall two stories below. He scrambles off the roof. Clinging to the down spout, he starts descending it. 91   SPECIAL EFFECTS MAN 
Looking up from the ground, he yanks a control rope. 
92   CAMERON 
The bracket holding the down spout breaks loose. The spout starts to fall away from the side of the building. Cameron clings to it, riding its downward arc as though it were a falling tree. 
93   AWNING 
At the end of the arc, Cameron throws himself free for a safe landing and smashes against the awning. Instead of holding, it rips apart like paper and, in that unexpected instant, Cameron's eyes widen in genuine terror as he plummets through the shredded canvas toward a skylight one floor below. 94   SKYLIGHT 
Exploding in a shower of glass and wood as it is struck by Cameron's body. He hurtles downward toward a blur of images. 95   ANGLE ON COT 
The crew laughs and so does Nina.    Cameron feels humiliated by Eli's patronizing tone. 
CAMERON It tasted lousy. But what do I know? You try it, Eli. You're the expert in bad taste. 
ELI (for the group) Uh-oh, sounds like the soldier's got his feelings hurt. 
CAMERON Naw, naw. I just don't know about Germans. Where I was we only raped gooks. 
100    INT.   HOTEL GARAGE - CLOSE ON ELI 
As though continuing previous dialogue. 
ELI (genially) Oh, is that why the cops are after you? ...After all this time? 
CAMERON (sarcastic) Damn! You finally guessed it! 100A   WIDER ANGLE 
Revealing Eli and Cameron walking through the hotel GARAGE toward a replica of the lost Duesenberg which a MECHANIC works on. 
ELI 
...Really? Rape? No. I think you're putting me on. Come on, now, no more hints. (he thinks) Let's see...Christ, could be anything. I know a guy in this state got 20 years for having cunnilingus with his wife. (studies Cameron) No...I guess you're not the type. More likely some hideous crime of violence... 
Eli is getting under Cameron's skin.     They stop at car. 
ELI (to mechanic) Have you seen Harvey? 
MECHANIC I think he's in there. 
Mechanic nods toward a door at the rear of the garage. Eli pats the fender of the Duesenberg. Cameron views it with a strange sense of unease. Putting his arm around Cameron's shoulder, Eli leads him toward the back door yelling to mechanic. 
ELI You'll have it ready on time? 
MECHANIC Yeah, but don't look under the hood or you'll find a Chevy. 
100B   At the door, Eli can barely open it to squeeze through. 
101    INT.   STORAGE ROOM 
An incredible number of people have wedged themselves into this tiny smoke-filled room, peering over each other's heads toward a lighted area at the far end. 
ELI (shouting) Harvey in here? 
OFFSTAGE VOICE (yelling) Quiet. We're shooting. (then back to business) Come on...let me have a little more face...a little more face! 
Eli squats on his haunches peering between the legs of the onlookers and tugs on Cameron's sleeve to join him. 
102   POV 
Hazily, through the restless shifting limbs, male and female, like the first rays of morning sun breaking through to the depths of the forest, we glimpse Raymond and Gabe shooting their eight millimeter epic: Two people screwing in a rowboat. Raymond suddenly throws his hands up in despair. 
RAYMOND (screaming) Cut! (indignantly) Jesus, Kenneth. Great control. All right, who's doubling for Kenny on the inserts? 
103   ANGLE ON ELI AND CAMERON 
Cameron and Eli rise to their feet. 
ELI Can you believe this? They spend the whole day working in a whorehouse and look how they relax? That's dedication. You think sex can save the world? (grins at Cameron) 
CAMERON That's not my bag, Eli. 
ELI Sex, or saving the world? 
CAMERON ...The world, that's your special job. And Jesus, are we all lucky to have you around... 
Suddenly Cameron is shoved backwards by the door as someone pushes against it to get in. 
104   ANOTHER ANGLE 
It is Harvey standing in the doorway with Nina. 
HARVEY (to Eli) Hey Chief, ya lookin' for me? 
Nina tries to peer over the heads of the crowd, pushing into the room. Cameron steps toward her without thinking. He wants her out of there. 
NINA What's happening?   What's going on? 
GABE (joking) Look who's here! Nina, we need you. Still got your makeup on? 
Nina, who by now has seen what's happening, laughs. 
NINA That's a daring touch, Raymond!    The rowboat. Terribly symbolic. 
NINA I'm sorry, Eli. 
CAMERON But he can say anything and that's okay... 
NINA ...That's right... 
CAMERON ...That's great... 
NINA ...What goes on in that dim little head of yours? How dare you open your mouth to him like that? Have you the vaguest idea what he's trying to say to people with this film?!...That man is the most dedicated, kindest...! 
Eli's voice interrupts, angry, like a schoolteacher dismissing a child for talking. 
ELI'S VOICE Nina, you can go now. 
Nina, close to tears, quickly gets up and hurries out of the theater, as Cameron sits there numbly staring at the screen. 
107A   POV 
On the portable screen, Raymond in helmet and goggles is in the cockpit of an airplane. He stuffs a bottle of champagne into a leather flying boot, dangles the package over the side and lets it go. Raymond looks down and salutes (like that famous scene in "WINGS"). 
PRODUCTION MANAGER'S VOICE Who says nothin' changes? Like to see one of our boys in a B-52 try that. 
Eli's voice yells 'cut' on the sound track. The angle on the portable screen widens and we see that the airplane sits on the ground with an electric fan blowing wind in Raymond's face. 
Now the scene on the portable screen changes: from the ground, we see the same biplane flying low. An object drops from the cockpit (the boot). Then there is a burst of flame in the engine. Trailing smoke, the plane wobbles, crash-lands (sliding alarmingly close to CAMERA). It ground-loops, goes up on one wing and, as it crashes down, we see that the pilot who we assumed was Raymond, is really a dummy that is flapping absurdly and falling to pieces before our eyes during the crash. There are groans, laughter and raspberries O.S. 
107B   INT.   SCREENING ROOM (AS THE LIGHTS GO UP) 
HARVEY Jesus, Eli, I'm sorry.    I'll do a pickup. 
ELI (laughing) It's so awful, it's beautiful.    Wish I could use it. 
SAM (sarcastic) That's all we'd need. 
107C   ANGLE ON GROUP 
ELI (getting morose) We goddamn well need something, Sam. Something better than we got... 
SAM (tight-lipped) Better? How better? 
ELI Wilder, crazier. 
SAM (starting to shout) Dropping a dead man's boots over his own airfield, out of chivalry... that's not crazy enough for you?! 
ELI They did it in "Wings."    Even the dummy was bored. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
(anxiety at the breaking point) ...Eli, please! You simply will not accept the fact that we are living on borrowed time... 
But Eli and Sam are not listening. 
ELI You can't shake your finger at 'em, Sam. If you've got something to say, you better slip it in while they're laughing and crying and jacking off over the sex and violence. He should do something...outrageous! 
SAM (belligerent) Like what? 
ELI Something to catch the stink of madness behind all that good clean fun. Why the hell did we pick World War I in the first place?...The ultimate romantic insanity! 
SAM (shouting) Like what?! 
ELI Like...I don't know what! What would Lucky do if he were on the wing of that plane? Picture that because it would be a hell of a lot realer than that flapping dummy. 
108   Cameron is startled.   He was not aware that Eli even knew he was in the room. 
SAM Is that what you're after, reality? I thought you wanted something outrageous! 
ELI Reality can be pretty outrageous. Look at soldier boy there, jumping off fucking buildings, risking his ass every day, doing stuff way over his head!...What would you do in that plane, Lucky, if you were about to die? 
CAMERON (off guard, embarrassed) What else? I'd dance for joy...I'd probably do a jig. 
ELI Great!   That's what we'll do. 
SAM Eli... 
ELI All right, not a jig...a Charleston... 
SAM A Charleston? 
ELI ...On the wing of the airplane! 
SAM (contempt) ...That's ridiculous. 
Cameron gets up, moving toward the dresser to turn off the clock, but instead stops at the stand holding the Old Lady wig. He runs his fingers through it as the clock continues to ring. 
CAMERON How come they cast you as an old lady? 
NINA I start out as a young girl hiding this American flyer. I'm Austrian... Will ya turn off the clock? 
Subtly, we sense something is bothering Cameron.    He ignores the still-ringing clock. 
NINA (CONT'D) Anyway, his patriotism is stronger than his love and he leaves me with another little patriot in my belly. 
During this he has taken the wig and puts it over his head, glancing in the mirror. 
CAMERON Why can't I double for both of you? I could use the money and I don't look half bad. 
NINA (seriously) Honey, you'll ruin it.    Take it off. 
He does. 
NINA (CONT'D) The clock's electric. It'll ring forever. 
Instead of turning off the clock, he crosses to the Old Lady's dress on a hanger. He looks at the dress appraisingly. 
CAMERON Eli might really go for that, the big soldier as a little old lady. 
Disturbed, Nina leaves the bed, turns off the alarm clock and adjusts the wig properly on its stand. 
NINA What's wrong? 
CAMERON Everything's beautiful. 
They embrace and cling to each other. She starts back for the bed, but he detours for the clock and pulls out the alarm again, and again it BEGINS RINGING. 
NINA What are you doing? 
CAMERON We've got to consider Eli. If you don't study the scene, he'll be mad...then you'll get mad...and I'll get shot out of a cannon. 
With the alarm still ringing, he starts toward the bed. 
NINA Did you fall on your head today? 
CAMERON I want it to ring. 
NINA Why? 
CAMERON For me, that's why. That's Eli yelling for you to work on your scene and us saying, "Up yours, Eli," and I like that. 
NINA Do you want to leave? 
CAMERON I want to make love to you while Eli is screaming his head off. 
The whole idea is so incongruous that she starts laughing. He gets on the bed with her. THE ALARM CONTINUES TO RING. They struggle about, giggling at the absurdity. 
NINA I can't make love with the clock ringing. 
CAMERON Betcha can. 
While he moves over her body, she grabs a pillow and hurtles it at the clock. It falls over, but keeps on ringing. By now, Cameron has entered Nina and she is rapidly becoming more involved in that, than in the clock. 
CAMERON (to ringing clock while making love to Nina) You tell 'em, Eli. 
CLOSE ON MOVIOLA 
In the darkness, the machine is like an ominous hunchback, splattering shards of light against Chuck's intensely watching face. He is highly disturbed at the unseen image. 
CHUCK (to himself) Crazy bastard! 
ANGLE WIDENS, showing a small STORAGE ROOM has been converted to a makeshift EDITING ROOM, where Chuck sits working the MOVIOLA. Slowly becoming aware of someone, he glances up through the spinning reels and dimly sees Cameron leaning in the doorway. 
CHUCK There was no way it could go wrong...unless he just went ape. 
Cameron ambles over as Chuck reverses the film to see it one more time. Even as he catches a glimpse of the film whirring backward, he realizes he's seeing BURT'S DEATH SCENE in the water. Now Chuck has reached the beginning of the film and is moving it forward again. 125A   CLOSE UP - VIEWER OF MOVIOLA 
The film whirs as we see through the windshield over Burt's shoulder, the car flying through the air, hitting the water and sinking beneath the surface. Burt goes through the motions of a man trying to free himself. 
CHUCK The harness is okay...the roof is holding...it all seems fine. 
CAMERON But look at him struggle... 
CHUCK ...Badly. Eli wouldn't use a foot of it...poor slob died for nothin'. 
126    ANOTHER ANGLE 
DENISE (to Cameron) You just sit here...dry...and repent. 
She crosses to the men at the makeup table. 
ACTOR Glad ya could tear yourself away. 
DENISE 
Don't panic. He's still got that whole big emotional thing to do with the dog food lady before they even get to you. You may not work 'til midnight. 
ACTOR You wait. Eli'll wave his wand and get it out of her in five minutes. 
DENISE'S VOICE (trimming his hair) You're confused...He got it into her in five minutes. To get it out of her...it takes longer. 
There is general knowing laughter as Denise crosses back to Cameron and sees by the look on his face she has hit her target. The thought of Nina and Eli as lovers had never occurred to Cameron. 
DENISE'S VOICE (CONT'D) Oops...somebody didn't know... 
The effect is stronger than she had expected.     Now compassion sets in. 
DENISE (CONT'D) (softly) Hey. C'mon, Red...I'm a woman scorned...I'll say anything. 
Cameron just sinks back in the chair, slowly dying. 
EXT.   GRAVEYARD - CLOSE ON "MECHANICAL BRONZE" Over the tinkling sound of the music box, the BEAR and MAIDEN perform their ritual as the CAMERA PULLS BACK revealing the GRAVESTONE decorated with the worn filmy lace undergarments of another era. They flutter in the soft wind and amber light of a summer afternoon, strangely beautiful against the mossy granite marked "UNKNOWN." Somehow these rotting women's underthings have the dignity of a sacred tapestry draping an altar. 
OLD LADY'S VOICE ...You terrible bear... so impatient... tearing something so beautiful... 
The ANGLE WIDENS and we see Nina, now made up to look wrinkled and gray, tragically old, her eyes moist as she kneels beside the grave. 
OLD LADY (NINA) (sudden deep sincerity) Why do I lie? I couldn't wait either. I think both of us are bears. (a soft nostalgic smile) Go, young maiden, you'll be late for your piano lesson. 
An elegantly-dressed CARIBINERRI (ITALIAN POLICEMAN) appears. 
CARIBINERRI Signora...signora... 
OLD LADY (NINA) I'm almost finished. 
CARIBINERRI Signora. This desecration... some flowers perhaps...would be permitted. 
OLD LADY (NINA) But, we want these. 
CARIBINERRI Please, signora. It's not right. The grave is unmarked. 
OLD LADY (NINA) Ask the driver how many graves we visited today. I could have chosen five hours ago. I came here and my soul said, "Oh yes." I know that is hard to believe... 
CARIBINERRI (shrugging) Anything is possible, signora. (tries urging her to her feet) Now, you must permit me to escort you to your car. 
OLD LADY (NINA) As soon as I am gone, you will take everything away. 
CARIBINERRI No... 
OLD LADY (NINA) (tears streaming down her face) You will, and I can't stop you, and it's wrong. We loved each other... Where else should these go? 
The unexpected sound of laughter makes her turn to see a SMALL GROUP OF PEOPLE who've gathered beside their PARKED CARS watching. 
OLD LADY (NINA) Yes, I know I'm ridiculous, but you laugh without knowing anything. You would buy a plastic wreath for a man of such importance. 
She pulls free of the Caribinerri and, trying to kneel down, stumbles and falls. Now, like some confused child, she searches among the garments. Taking a SCROLL from a wooden box, she shakes it at them like a schoolteacher would a ruler. 
OLD LADY (NINA) President Wilson...from the President of the United States...for heroism. To me for sheltering him... (smiling to herself) How silly. I 'sheltered' him to be with him. He was my beloved...Where is it?...Oh, here, did you see this? 
She now holds up a fist from which dangles a swastika on a sash. 
OLD LADY (NINA) Given to me by Adolf Hitler...for our son. Our son... 
Her voice suddenly fierce with the pain of that memory. 
OLD LADY (NINA) ...Our son!!! (then, with simple reverence) ...A thousand years of peace...is what he said. That would be very nice. 
The Caribinerri, spellbound, has taken a backward step, bumping into a REFLECTOR, which now teeters and falls into the scene, knocking off his hat, barely missing the Old Lady and crashing across the grave and shattering all illusion. The Caribinerri stands there 
with his eyes closed and his fists clenched, wishing he were in the grave. Nina stands in speechless horror. 133   WIDER ANGLE - INCLUDING CREW SHOOTING 
ELI (quietly) Cut... 
CARIBINERRI Eli, I'll kill myself. 
ELI ...and print. 
It's deadly silent as Eli walks over to Nina.    They stare at each other for a moment. 
Cameron ignores Sam. 
SAM (CONT'D) Being a devout masochist, it follows that I'm Eli's best friend. I know quite a lot about him and Nina. 
CAMERON You and the entire crew, buddy. 
SAM (wryly) He met her three years ago. Two lonely people rattling around New York. A brutal winter. Eli's marriage had just broken up... 
CAMERON (interrupting in anger) ...All she had to do was tell me! 
SAM'S VOICE She could have done that in four seconds. They went to bed once and they were lousy as lovers. But they had a problem. They liked each other. They recognized some area of mutual sensitivity. I'm boring you. 
CAMERON You telling me he banged her once three years ago? 
SAM'S VOICE (disgusted) I'm going to see if they can put me up in the employees' toilet. 
He begins to type again, then philosophically... 
SAM'S VOICE (CONT'D) I think he 'banged' her twice to confirm the awful truth...Was she supposed to be a virgin? 
CAMERON Yeah... 
But he says this so sadly and looks so miserable that Sam knows he has reached him and it touched. 
SAM 
I had a virgin once. Had to go to Guatemala for it. She was blind in one eye and had a stuffed alligator that said, "Welcome to Miami Beach!" 
Cameron sits there feeling dumb and full of regrets. Then he gets up, goes to Sam's closet and begins rummaging through the clothes. Sam watches him curiously. 
CAMERON So how's the new ending coming? 
SAM I got fourteen versions. Take your pick. (worried about his clothes) What are you doing in there? 
CAMERON (overly casual) ...Fourteen gory ways to die? 
SAM Thirteen. In one version he lives...turns the girl in, opens a gay bar in Berlin, gains fifty pounds and changes his name to Goering... (now deeply concerned) ...Please, anything but the sweaters. You'll stretch the hell out of the sleeves. 
140   INT.   RESTAURANT 
The pleasant SEAFOOD RESTAURANT is on the pier over the water. Cameron, now wearing Sam's sweater after all, is searching about the crowded room trying to find Nina and what might be her family. He is about to leave when he sees a group at a window table, a MAN and WOMAN in their early fifties and a FOURTEEN-YEAR-OLD GIRL, attractive despite the baby fat. Something about the composite of all their features is familiar enough to give them a second look. In doing so, he sees a half-eaten BIRTHDAY CAKE on their table, in front of an empty place. He goes to the table. 
CAMERON (hesitantly) I was sort of invited to a birthday party and I can't seem to find it...and this seems to be a birthday party... 
The FATHER, a hearty, bluff, good-natured man, looks at Cameron amiably and with a father's intuition. 
FATHER A birthday party is a birthday party...sit down. (Cameron does) Who was this birthday party for... animal, vegetable or mineral? 
NANCY, the fourteen-year-old, giggles. 
NANCY ...Mineral. 
MOTHER Will you stop teasing this young man? 
CAMERON She's really worth finding, ma'am. She's a very rare mineral. 
FATHER (pleased with Cameron) How old is this mineral? 
CAMERON This morning she was acting about ninety, but she might be lying a year or two. 
The father now really comfortable, recognizing a fellow humorist. 
FATHER No, you got the wrong table...this one's acting like she's six...but the missus tells me birthdays are very emotional for the ladies. 
At this moment Cameron can tell from their faces that they've seen Nina behind him. He turns. 
141   POV 
Nina has emerged from the ladies' room looking miserable and is walking toward them. At the shock of seeing Cameron, her hand flies to her mouth in such embarrassment and joy and confusion at the way she feels, that she starts back to the refuge of the ladies' room. Catching herself, she turns back to face him, her eyes now glowing with tears of happiness. 
142   HOTEL CORRIDOR - CLOSE ON CAMERON - LATER THAT NIGHT 
He moves forward and kisses Nina. We now realize we are at her HOTEL ROOM DOOR. She on the inside, he on the outside, kissing through the doorway, which stands slightly ajar. With their mouths barely parting: 
NINA I'm sorry it got so late...that damn five o'clock makeup call...I feel as bad as you do... 
CAMERON In the same place I do? 
NINA Will you take a raincheck? (slipping her room key in his pocket) ...A permanent one? 
He puts his hand on the pocket and grins at her. 
Hearing WATER running in the bathtub, he dashes in, but finds the bathroom empty. He moves to the closet and slides the door so violently that it almost falls off: No Raymond. 
NINA (CONT'D) Get out!!! (raging) I'll have you thrown out! 
She crosses to the phone. 
CAMERON Is there anybody in this whole company you haven't screwed? 
147A   In the HALLWAY, a little group of PASSING TOURISTS turn in wonderment at the tumult through the open doorway. Nina leaves the phone, crosses to the door and kicks it shut in the people's faces with all her strength. 
NINA 
(furious) You stupid, ignorant bastard! How dare you storm in here like you won me in a raffle?! 
Cameron, realizing for the first time that instead of being ashamed or frightened, she is livid with rage? 
CAMERON (coldly) My girl gave me her key! 
NINA I am not your girl! I am that man's girl! That man and I have been lovers for six months! I've known you two days! 
CAMERON (ironically) Then gee, ma'am, I sure hope you didn't tell him about all that ballin' last night. 
NINA Don't you dare be clever with me! He came scratching at the door tonight like a beaten dog, begging me to say that you were some twenty- four hour nonsense. (against her will she starts to cry) ...and I had to tell him I thought I was falling in love with... 
CAMERON (not giving an inch) You couldn'a said that with your clothes on?! 
Nina lets out an incoherent roar of rage. 
NINA Goddamn you! The wounded stud! He is entitled to some dignity! To lose his "pure and faithful lover" without the new boy barging in! Where do you suppose he is now? 
CAMERON Did ya look in the laundry hamper? 
NINA GET OUT!     Get the HELL OUT!! 
Cameron crosses to the door. Searching through this madness for some kind of logic, turning on her. 
CAMERON I don't have any rights? I don't have the right to be pissed off...? 
NINA You don't have the right to breathe! I knew him before I met you! Do you understand that?! Before I met you!! If we were frightened, we woke each other in the dark...we slept in each other's arms... 
CAMERON (interrupting) The word is "fuck!" 
NINA All right, the word is fuck! You narrow, insensitive, stupid...! 
CAMERON (interrupting) Don't. Don't push me. I don't know this freaky world you live in, but I know that there still must be a couple of places where people somehow believe in... 
He is at a loss for words. 
NINA Believe in what? You're blushing. A place where what? Don't get embarrassed at this late date! 
CAMERON ...A place where a guy has a right to blow his top if he finds his lover screwing... 
NINA (interrupting) Raymond's lover! Raymond's lover! Say it! Raymond's lover! 
Cameron, exhausted, slides down the wall and sits on the floor. 
NINA (CONT'D) I'll have it typed up and notarized...! Raymond's lover! And you will sign where it says, agreed! 
He says nothing. She on the bed and he on the floor, are drained of all strength and emotion. 
NINA (CONT'D) (quietly) You won't turn me into some rotten whore because your papa once told that a woman is a certain way "and that's how it's gonna be 'til Gabriel blows his horn..." 
CAMERON (wearily) Okay...okay. I just want to sit a couple of seconds without having to say a word. Because if I start trying to say, "I'm sorry I caught you and Raymond fucking," I'll start laughing and when I laugh too hard, I get the hiccups and they can last for days. 
NINA (after a long beat; softly) Don't get hiccups. 
CAMERON (quietly) Isn't anything what it seems to be?... 
NINA (quietly) No... 
CAMERON (quietly) Don't you think that's kind of lousy? 
NINA (quietly) Yes... 
They sit there unable to leave each other, unable to move to each other. They just sit there. 
148    INT.   BASEMENT SCREENING ROOM - MORNING 
Dailies are in progress. Eli watches, surrounded by a few crew members. Cameron sits in the back row with Nina's MOTHER, FATHER and SISTER. Nina is not present. On the PORTABLE SCREEN is a shot of Nina as a wild, radiant eighteen-year old Austrian girl running pell-mell along a willow-lined VILLAGE STREET, dodging children and 148A   bicycles. She collides with an OLD MAN, her basket falls, its contents scattering; his momentary anger vanishing as he is infected with her joy of life. He helps her refill the basket and she rewards him with a sausage and a kiss. The old man watches her wistfully as she runs away. 149    ANGLE ON PARENTS 
There's a tear of pride in Nina's mother's eye. Father gently puts his hand on top of hers as the room lights come on. 
CAMERON It's a rotten shame about your folks and your naked ass, but dying always scared me a little, okay? 
NINA 
...and you are beginning to scare me. You're talking like a wild man!... 
CAMERON Did you know that Eli almost strangled a man because he stopped the camera when Burt got killed?! 
NINA What is going on in that head of yours?! You take the word of some...malcontent...technician! 
CAMERON ...I saw the bruises! 
NINA ...And I saw Eli that night when he had to tell Burt's brother on the phone...I saw the tears. 
CAMERON She saw the tears! Did you ask him what he was crying about?! 'Cause you can bet your sweet tits, it wasn't over Burt. He was crying over losing his fucking shot! 
To keep from exploding, Nina opens her luggage and furiously starts repacking. 
NINA Didn't they give I.Q. tests in the army? What did you get...minus twelve? Haven't you figured out yet why he's working himself to death? What his film is all about? He's trying to tell people not to kill each other! 
CAMERON And you know what? You want the shock of your life...? I understand what the son-of-a-bitch is saying, and he may be right...which makes me what? Minus twelve, the dumb schmuck with a gun. That doesn't change the fact that he's crazy. If he had his way, there wouldn't be a soldier left alive by morning. But 
all he's got on hand is me. I don't know if he is doing it consciously, but it's a hell of an idea. If he can really get it on film, a genuine dumb fuck grunt cashing in, before your very eyes, I mean the real McCoy...that's gotta help his picture...Then he's killed two birds with one stone. It's got a nice logic. Trouble is, both birds are me. 
Against her instincts, Nina is emotionally affected by what Cameron says. 
NINA Stop it...sweetheart...I'd die if anything happened to you. 
The TELEPHONE RINGS. Her head whips to look at it.     It continues ringing, but she doesn't move. 
NINA It's my father...I won't talk to him...You're all driving me crazy...I won't talk to him.! 
Cameron calmly picks up the phone. 
CAMERON Hi...hello? 
NINA (whispering) Tell them I'm not here. Tell them anything. Tell them I'm working. 
CAMERON (glancing at Nina) Okay, Chuck. I'll meet you in an hour. (he hangs up) For me. Amazing how they keep secrets around here. 
He walks over to the still-stricken Nina and tenderly embraces her. She leans against him, the trembling subsiding. CAMERON What if I told you I wasn't going to do the stunt? 
NINA I'd say fine. 
CAMERON And what if I told you I was gonna get out of here tonight...and that I want you to come with me? 
NINA (upset and confused) But there's just one more day of shooting... 
CAMERON What if I can't wait? 
NINA I...I have two more scenes... 
CAMERON That's a shame. 
NINA ...I could meet you... 
When he doesn't answer, Nina resorts to her last defense, irrational anger. 
NINA (CONT'D) ...Look, don't do the stunt! If you believe Eli's a killer, call the police...Why are you doing this to me? That's all I need right now, with all I've been through!...For you to give me now-or-never ultimatums and tell me my director is insane!... 
By now she is stalking about the room throwing things from one suitcase to another as Cameron silently watches her. 
169   INT.   GARAGE - LATE NIGHT - LOW ANGLE ON THE BLACK DUESENBERG 
Which stands alone like Moby Dick awaiting its victim. Chuck and Cameron appear from behind the car, stalking it like it were the Sunday Special on a used car lot, Chuck the "hearty" salesman, Cameron the reluctant customer. 
CHUCK Look at this mother...I'll bet these guys could build an Arabian out of a jackass. 
CAMERON Why not?   You built a stunt man out of one. 
CHUCK Stunt man? Three days and you've already grown those big brass balls? Jump up and down and let me hear 'em clang, and then do me a favor and leave 'em home for this gag. (yanks open the door) There's just enough room in that Duesenberg for a normal guy...who thinks! (Cameron slides in) Show me how long you can hold your breath. 
Cameron inhales deeply and Chuck clicks his stopwatch. 
CHUCK Now, look around. Whaddya see?...No roll bar in the roof. That's because the roof caving in really looks gassy on film. You got your protection in the back of the seat...steel sheeting. If the roof goes too far, you get your goddamn head down quick! You listening to me?!...Nod Your head. (slapping Cameron on back) You got good lungs. (buckles Cameron's seatbelt) You got no shoulder harness because it would show on camera. So when you hit the water, you brace yourself against the steering wheel. It's reinforced. You couldn't break it loose with dynamite...you gettin' light-headed yet? 
Cameron shakes his head, "No." 
CHUCK Keep your hands off the doors... You're leaving through the window. You lower them slowly as you sink to equalize the pressure. What are you waitin' for? I'm not gonna be down there holding your hand. (Cameron lowering windows) Slower. When you hit bottom, the windows are open and you're gonna make like a minnow. But first, a little fresh air wouldn't hurt. You reach down under the seat and, what do you know, a respirator...Make like you're reaching for it. There'll be one there tomorrow. 
Cameron reaches for the non-existent respirator. 
He pauses, catching his breath, as another image emerges from the swirl of memory. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) 
(tense and frightened) ...Then...I see this thing glowing in the dark...I hit that floor so fast. Christ, I nearly swallowed my heart. That second I was sure...it was Charlie...a cigarette butt, some guy on a V.C. Patrol!... (his panic subsides) Know what it was? It was the GODDAMN PILOT LIGHT ON THE HOT FUDGE MACHINE!! That did it! That DID IT! HOT FUDGE?! Me buried in shit, being the damn good soldier the judge said I was, yes sir, people sitting there on their fat asses feedin' their fat faces. "Can I have an extra cherry? Can I have an extra cherry?" 
Cameron rips Denise's electric hair dryer from the wall and hurls it across the basement. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) I smashed that fucking fudge pot across the room, smack into that shelf full of animals...and it starts raining pussycats and monkeys and kangaroo cookies like Noah's Ark! 
The   hair dryer smashes against a shelf, toppling ammunition boxes and   bottles onto the carcass of a disassembled World War I airplane. The   propeller topples and falls through a German recruiting poster, and   just out at the Kaiser's crotch. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) "How long should a girl wait" she says? FOR GODDAMN EVER, BITCH, THAT'S HOW LONG! 
Cameron's hands have come to rest on a metal laundry bin.   He grips it and lifts it over his head. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) I picked up this fifty-pound ice cream vat...FLAVOR-OF-THE-MONTH!... ROYAL-BAVARIAN-CHOCOLATE-MIST!...and I started running with that son-of- a-bitch... 179G 
Cameron starts running across the room and just as he's about to hurl it, he COLLIDES with a jutting shelf, which knocks him flat on his back. The shelf falls and thirty or forty one-gallon PAINT CANS cascade on top of him. It looks disastrous. Nina runs to him, terrified, but before the last can has even come to rest, Cameron emerges from the pile of cans, throwing them aside, still thrashing and screaming as he struggles to his feet. 
At the sight of him, Nina starts laughing. But Cameron, who has somehow managed to keep his grip on the laundry basket, raises it over his head as if nothing has happened, hurls the clothes bin, screaming: 
CAMERON (CONT'D) SCOOP THAT UP YOUR ROYAL BAVARIAN STRAWBERRY SNATCH! 
With the effort, Cameron's feet fly out from under him as if he had stepped in oil. In fact, he has stepped in paint, and lands flat on his ass in the green goo. Nina "bracks" out an uncontrollable guffaw. 
CAMERON (bellowing) It's not funny! 
Shamed, Nina runs to him. 
NINA Oh, baby... 
But, as she reaches him, her feet too are caught in the paint and she slides forward like an ice skater, spraddling him, landing on her ass. His rage vanishes as he points at her, breaking into a fiendish, uncontrollable cackle. These pratfalls are a catharsis that has released the pressure and the madness. They attempt to gain their feet, skidding and sliding in the paint. He succeeds, but Nina fails. 
NINA (through laughter) Let me go to the bathroom.   I'm gonna have an accident. 
CAMERON You'll miss the main part! Killer Cameron's ghastly crime! I was freaked out of my head! And, suddenly there's this big flashlight shining in my face. I just grabbed that goddamn ice cream bucket and slopped it...right over the guy's head! 
Although Cameron's got nothing in his hands, he pantomimes swinging that fifty-pound ice cream bucket around in the air, losing his balance and landing on his back in the paint beside Nina. Her hysteria is renewed, but Cameron stops laughing. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) (quietly) It's not funny. It wasn't him. It was a cop. I got out of there like a shot. I didn't know he was knocked out. How the hell did I know he was gonna lay there all night with his head in the ice cream? 
NINA (suddenly serious) Oh, my God. He died? 
CAMERON No, he's in the hospital. 
NINA Oh, no. 
CAMERON Oh, yes.   That ice cream's goddamn cold! (struggling for a proper description) His nose...it froze and his ear froze, see...and... 
Despite the horror of it, Nina starts giggling.   She can't help it. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) (indignantly) No, it's terrible!...He lost the tip of his nose and his ear lobe... 
179H   Then, Cameron, realizing the absurdity, starts giggling too. Out of control, Nina scrambles to her feet and dashes for the ladies room. Cameron follows her to the door, still talking as it closes behind her. 
CAMERON (CONT'D) I'll tell ya, it's a bad year to mess with cops. You get the FBI screaming down on your ass... 
NINA (through the door) Oh, God. Too late...Thanks a lot! 
Abruptly, Cameron's energy is gone. The hilarity is over.   He leans his forehead against the door in exhaustion and despair. 
CAMERON (softly) ...If we woke up Eli and told him about the ice cream...would he forgive me and call off the stunt?... 180    INT.   GARAGE - PRE-DAWN 
The DUESENBERG STANDS silhouetted in the darkness, light glinting dimly off it like the gleam from fine wood of a splendid coffin waiting in the slumber room before services begin. Behind it, a side door of the garage opens. But it is not visitors coming to pay their last respects, it is Cameron and Nina. He is wearing Burt's clothes. 
Nina moves quickly to a WHITE CONVERTIBLE as Cameron crosses to the big overhead garage doors and hits the electric SWITCH. NOTHING HAPPENS. He flips another switch and harsh overhead lights illuminate the reality of the garage. Nina has started the convertible, as Cameron tries to lift the garage door handles. 
CAMERON How the hell d'ya open this thing? 
VOICE (O.S.) Sorry, folks, it's locked. 
Nina gasps. Cameron whirls towards the voice. A COP with a big flashlight stands in the open doorway peering in at them. 
CAMERON We know it's locked.   Would you open up for us? 
COP Can't...not 'til seven o'clock.   Mr. Cross's orders. 
NINA (the actress) I'm sure Mr. Cross will understand when you tell him that Miss Franklin had a sudden desire for Swedish pancakes for breakfast and this gentleman had a sudden desire to keep me company...I'm Nina Franklin, the star of the film. 
COP Pancake house don't open 'til eight. 
A.D. (CONT'D) Mr. Cross, please. The camera crew's ready for a setup. 
182   ANGLE ON ELI AND THE CAMERA CREW 
They are already huddled, squatting on their haunches under a tree. 
ELI The R-35 in the chopper on the maxi- mount, the underwater Imo in the Duesenberg... 
GABE I'll hide an Arri with a zoom up on the hill. 
ELI And what about number four? Maybe hang a platform under the bridge with the speed camera? 
GABE (admiringly) Heavy...From the top of the screen right into the water...squish. 183   ANGLE ON THE DUESENBERG 
Being rolled up to a mark in the center of the road. Crewmen swarm; in and under it, tuning, polishing, testing, installing camera, sound, electrical equipment, as Chuck hovers over them. 
A.D. All drivers, please...I want every equipment vehicle back behind the bend... 
As motors rev, the two sheepdogs squawk: "Out of sight..." "Behind the bend...," then are lost in the rising dust of their herd. 184   ANOTHER ANGLE 
Cables are being strung out of sight along the side of the road, snapped into junction boxes that spread their electrified tentacles, strangling the landscape. 
A.D. (pointing at the mike boom) What's that supposed to be, Ralph? ...An elm or an oak? Get that mike off the boom and into the bushes. Come on, people, let's think! We're losing the sun! 185   ANOTHER ANGLE FURTHER DOWN THE ROAD 
Gabe, Chuck, the A.D. and a Technician move down the road toward us, shoulder to shoulder, halting on the bridge. Chuck and Gabe move to the stone railing. Chuck taps on it, producing a hollow sound. Gabe, examining a corner of this false section... 
GABE (to A.D.) Have 'em touch up that corner of the section. It looks phony as hell. 
The A.D. has been drawing a chalk line across the road. 
A.D. (to Technician) Climb down there in the bushes and stay out of sight. 
TECHNICIAN What about earphones? 
A.D. Just watch your mark. 
186   WIDE ANGLE ON THE DUESENBERG 
Behind it, the last of the equipment trucks is being jack-knifed out of sight. A row of reflectors stand like sentinels on the hill, bathing the Duesenberg in light. Workmen swarm about it like ants on the queen's birthday. 
187   ANGLE ON ELI 
ELI (into walkie-talkie) Where's the chopper? We'd kinda like to have you join us...if you can find the way. 
VOICE (over walkie-talkie) Fifteen minutes, Eli. We're just warming her up. 
Eli grabs an electric horn from the hand of a passing A.D. 
ELI All right, everybody...may I have your attention, please? 
Instantly the frantic A.D.'s begin squawking, "Everybody put down what you're doing, the director wants to talk." 
ELI (thru speaker) This is the one and only Duesenberg we have in stock. When that car goes into the water, we're not going to see it again. So, once the action starts, no matter what happens, keep it going. 
188   ANGLE ON CORTEZ DRESSING ROOM 
As Cameron steps out through the open doorway, buttoning his costume. 
ELI (CONT'D) ...We must have this shot. Therefore, I now order no camera to jam and no cloud to pass before the sun. 
189   LONG SHOT ON THE DUESENBERG 
As Cameron moves toward it uncertainly. Eli, some distance away, surrounded by members of his crew, glances up. 
ELI (yelling) How ya doin', soldier? Where'd ya learn to do without sleep? 
Without awaiting an answer, Eli returns to his work, as Cameron approaches the Duesenberg. 
190   CLOSE ON DUESENBERG 
Cameron walks around it, testing and checking, but moving relentlessly toward the humpback trunk. A horn honks and a police car slides up. Jake leans out the window, waves at Cameron jovially. 
JAKE How do you guys get accident insurance? Must cost you an arm and a leg... (chuckling) ...that's a good one. 
He drives on toward a parked German army truck, in which lounge several soldiers. Chuck approaches Cameron. 
CHUCK You're lookin' real strong, kid. Is that loose change I hear jinglin' or are they beginnin' to grow? 
CAMERON (flatly) Wanna check? 
CHUCK C'mon, lemme show you this truck... 
At their master's voice, they leap. 
A.D. (screams) End markers! 
SOUND MAN (shouts) Speed! 193   INT.   DUESENBERG 
Speed. The needle hits sixty-five -- seventy -- climbing fast. Cameron grips the wheel, looking at that empty road. An involuntary shout swells up and escapes his mouth. 
CAMERON (exultantly) Yahooo! (toward Nina in the trunk) Hang on to everything, baby, we're on our way! You okay? 
The needle hits eighty -- eighty-five. Ahead, the bridge is rushing toward us. Now the arches of the stone railing are strobing past. Through them, he sees the black river which he has escaped. Triumphantly, his hand rises, middle finger extended. Suddenly the red camera light goes on, the underwater camera behind him begins whirring. He moves his finger behind him for a perfect close-up, (recalling that moment in the tower): 
CAMERON (screaming) Shoot this, Eli! 
The center of the bridge is an instant away, an approaching blur. 194   EXT.   ROADSIDE - ANGLE ON TECHNICIAN 
Crouching -- tensely watching the chalk line on the road as the Duesenberg flashes past. His finger presses a button. INSERT - FRONT WHEEL OF DUESENBERG 
Blam! The whole front wheel of the car is blown off by an explosive charge. 196   ANOTHER ANGLE 
The Duesenberg drops on one axle. Metal screams against stone, as though it were Cameron himself, screaming. Skidding, spinning, tearing through the papier-mache railing, plunging out of control into space, where it hovers for a brief instant and arcs downward like a dying bird. 197   INT.   DUESENBERG - CLOSE ON CAMERON 
A cry of such anguish and despair. 
CAMERON (screaming) Ninaaa-a-a-a-a-!!! 
198   INT.   DUESENBERG - WIDE ANGLE PAST CAMERON THROUGH WINDSHIELD 
The river rushes up and the car smashes into it with a deafening, shattering roar, plunging beneath the surface to a dark and soundless world -- except for a tiny red light, the whir of a camera and Cameron's desperate cries. Tearing his seatbelt off he flings himself toward the rear of the car, clawing at the back seat to reach Nina. Incredibly, there is sunlight again as the car is buoyed to the surface. There, again, is the living world - the road, the trees. In that brief instant, through the rear window, Cameron has a wild, tilted glimpse of a pink pinafore -- Nina, standing by the rail looking down, Eli beside her. The car noses downward, water rising swiftly over the rear window. The last image on Cameron's retina is that wild, eager, little-girl excitement on Nina's face. Then he's alone again, entombed in the darkening water as the car plunges toward the bottom. 
Cameron sits, immobilized at the realization that his betrayal is total. Everyone, even Nina, has conspired to bring him to this -- red light glowing, camera whirring, to capture the moment of his death. 
Outrage galvanizes him to action. He reaches for the door handles, to rip them open -- they snap off in his hands. Now there is a rumbling and rending of metal as the roof begins to implode, crushing down toward him. Under the immense pressure, the rear window bursts inward, the river rushing in a wild torrent. The memory of Chuck's voice..."the windows." He lowers the front window slowly. The water now pours in faster. The level has risen to his chin. He gasps a final breath and the water rises over his head. Still the red light burns. He reaches beneath the seat for the oxygen cylinder and tries to pull it loose. It won't move. The impact of the car hitting the water has bent the seat frame. His groping hand finds the hose, the oxygen mask. A hope. Though every second is robbing his chance for life, his movements under water are as in slow motion. Pulling the mask to his face, he takes an eager breath and chokes as water fills his mouth. The rubber tube has broken loose from the cylinder and is floating free -- as it must have with Burt. Pressure of the onrushing water has stopped as the water reaches the roof. For a moment there is a strange stillness which Cameron, his lungs bursting, swims through, out the window and toward the surface. 199   ANGLE ON CAMERON 
Moving upward through river slime, in a world that grows lighter, in a desperate race to reach air. 
Daylight! Gasping, half unconscious, barely able to move his arms to stay afloat. Adrift in the current, he touches land, clawing at the rocks and pulling himself onto the shore. His muscles, still moving by motor reflex, driven by survival instinct, take him crawling from the river bank through the tall grass -- still the fugitive, the "man on the run." Then, he lifts his head and stops at what he sees before him: 
200   POV 
Fanned out across the field is a row of men, guns held ready. Policemen from the truck in their German uniforms moving forward slowly -- carefully searching the terrain in an arch which, as it closes, must irrevocably reach Cameron. 201   ANOTHER ANGLE 
It's over. Without strength or will, he lies waiting for them as though his eyes were made of glass. They see him now, but their pace doesn't change. As they take the last few steps toward him, he sees their shoulders, waists, knees and then only a circle of feet around him. 
Their hands roughly grab him, pulling him to his feet, shoving him brutally about. Angry cop faced growling: "Kill the son-of-a- 
bitch," "Shoot 'im," "Cut it," "Hang 'im," and then loudly, "Cut it!" He feels a blow on the back, then another. They seem too gentle. Why is that cop smiling? Some of them are walking away. Where are the handcuffs? Why is he shaking my hand instead? Then the jumble of voices is becoming clearer..."No matter what they pay you, make 'em give you a raise!"..."Fantastic, my wife thinks being a cop is dangerous -- you guys are terrific!" It finally sinks in, the insane, absurd, devastating, humiliating realization that it was all just another scene in a movie that came off as planned. 
He is alive and free. Is that gurgle we hear in Cameron's throat the water that he swallowed or an unseemly giggle? Then it chokes into laughter. 202   POV 
Here comes Chuck, running across the field with his silly stunt bag filled with elastic bandages. How funny. Here's the helicopter hovering with Gabe descending the rope ladder bearing film for Eli, who runs to meet him. How hilarious. There's the pink pinafore...Nina holding the skirt up to her waist as she wades through the tall grass towards him. How sweetly absurd. 
A.D. All right, come on...let's get the stuff in the trucks, we're losing sun! 203   ANGLE ON CAMERON 
Chuck has reached Cameron, throwing a blanket over him.   He pulls a pint from his back pocket. 
CHUCK Take a belt. Don't be stingy. 
As Cameron tilts his head back, the bottle to his mouth, he sees skin divers setting down their rescue equipment and stripping out of their dripping wet-suits. 
CAMERON Those guys down there the whole time? 
Chuck, who is rubbing Cameron violently through the blanket to restore his circulation, replies with the highest compliment he can pay? 
CHUCK I can't hear ya...they're clangin' too loud. 
204   ANOTHER ANGLE 
Nina has reached an impasse twenty yards away in her journey of love toward Cameron -- a muddy section of swamp. 
NINA (shouts across the distance to Cameron) I can't come any further. What should I do? I'll get the dress all muddy and I need it for the next scene. 
CAMERON (grinning with good nature) Tunafish salad...I know. 
NINA (shouts) They found me five minutes after you left. I felt ridiculous. 
CAMERON (waves back) Just as well! 
NINA (shouts) When Eli told me you'd   changed your mind and decided to do   the stunt, at first I didn't believe   him, but I guess you really did.    I tried to find you. 
Eli is standing nearby listening to this macabre exchange between lovers. 
