Sunset Boulevard 
SUNSET BOULEVARD 
Charles Brackett Billy Wilder D.M. Marshman, Jr. 
March 21,1949 
SEQUENCE "A" 
A-l-4   START the picture with the actual street sign: SUNSET BOULEVARD, stencilled on a curbstope. In the gutter lie dead leaves, scraps of paper, burnt matches and cigarette butts.  It is early morning. 
Now the CAMERA leaves the sign and MOVES EAST, the grey asphalt of the street filling the screen.  As speed accelerates to around 40 m.p.h., traffic de- marcations, white arrows, speed-limit warnings, man- hole covers, etc., flash by.  SUPERIMPOSED on all this are the CREDIT TITLES, in the stencilled style of the street sign. 
Over the scene we now hear         MAN'S VOICE sirens.  Police squad cars    Yes, this is Sunset hurtle toward the camera,     Boulevard, Los Angeles, turn off the road into a      California.  It's about driveway with squealing       five o'clock in the brakes.  Dismounted motor-    morning.  That's the cycle cops stand directing    Homicide Squad, com- the cars in.                  plete with detectives and newspaper men. A-5     PATIO AND POOL OF             A murder has been re- MANSION                       ported from one of those great big houses in the The policemen and news-       ten thousand block. paper reporters and           You'll read all about photographers have            it in the late editions, jumped out of the cars        I'm sure.  You'll get and are running up to         it over your radio, the pool, in which a          and see it on tele- body is seen floating.        vision -- because an Photographers' bulbs          old-time star is in- flash in rapid suc-           volved.  one of the big- cession.                      gest.  But before you hear it all distorted and blown out of proportion, before those Hollywood columnists get their hands on it, maybe you'd like to hear the facts, the whole truth... 
A-6     FLASH OF THE BODY MAN'S VOICE Angle up through the       If so, you've come to the water from the bottom      right party...  You see, of the pool, as the        the body of a young man body floats face down-     was found floating in the ward.  It is a well-       pool of her mansion, with dressed young man.         two shots in his back and one in his stomach.  No- body important, really. Just a movie writer with a couple of "B" pictures to his credit.  The poor dope.  He always wanted a pool Well, in the end he got himself a pool -- SLOW DISSOLVE TO:          only the price turned out to be a little high... Let's go back about six A-7     HOLLYWOOD, SEEN FROM       months and find the day THE HILLTOP AT IVAR        when it all started. & FRANKLIN STREETS 
It is a crisp sunny        I was living in an day.  The voice con-       apartment house above tinues speaking as         Franklin and Ivar. CAMERA PANS toward         Things were tough the ALTO NIDO APART-       at the moment.  I hadn't MENT HOUSE, an ugly        worked in a studio for Moorish structure ofsat    a long time.  So I stucco, about four         there grinding stories high.  CAMERA      out original stories, MOVES TOWARD AN OPEN       two a week.  Only I WINDOW on the third        seemed to have lost floor, where we look       my touch.  Maybe they in on JOE GILLIS' APART-   weren't original MENT.  Joe Gillis, bare-   enough.  Maybe they footed and wearing no-     were too original. thing but an old bath-     All I know is they robe.  is sitting on       didn't sell. the bed.  In front of him.  on a straight chair, is a portable typewriter.  Beside him, on the bed, is a dirty ashtray and a scattering of type written and pencil- marked pages.  Gillis is typing.  with a pencil clenched bet- ween his teeth. 
A-8     JOE GILLIS' APARTMENT 
It is a one-room affair with an unmade Murphy bed pulled out of the wall at which Gillis sits typing. There are a couple of worn-out plush chairs and a Spanish-style, wrought-iron standing lamp.  Also a small desk littered with books and letters, and a chest of drawers with a portable phonograph and some records on top.  On the walls are a couple of repro- ductions of characterless paintings, with laundry bills and snapshots stuck in the frames.  Through an archway can he seen a tiny kitchenette, complete with unwashed coffee pot and cup, empty tin cans, orange peels, etc.  The effect is dingy and cheerless -- just another furnished apartment.  The buzzer SOUNDS. 
GILLIS Yeah. 
The buzzer SOUNDS again.  Gillis gets up and opens the door.  Two men wearing hats stand outside one of them carrying a briefcase. 
NO. 1 Joseph C. Gillis? 
GILLIS That's right. 
The men ease into the room.  No. 1 hands Gillis a business card. 
NO. 1 We've come for the car. 
GILLIS What car? 
NO. 2 (Consulting a paper) 1946 Plymouth convertible.  Calif- ornia license 97 N 567. 
NO. 1 Where are the keys? 
GILLIS Why should I give you the keys? 
NO. 1 Because the company's played ball with you long enough.  Because you're three payments behind.  And because we've got a Court order. Come on -- the keys. 
NO. 2 Or do you want us to jack it up and haul it away? 
GILLIS Relax, fans.  The car isn't here. 
NO. 1 Is that So? 
GILLIS I lent it to a friend of mine. He took it up to Palm Springs. 
NO. 1 Had to get away for his health, I suppose. 
GILLIS You don't believe me?  Look in the garage. 
NO. 1 Sure we believe you, only now we want you to believe us.  That car better be back here by noon tomorrow, or there's going to be fireworks. 
GILLIS You say the cutest things. 
The men leave.  Gillis                 GILLIS' VOICE stands pondering beside    Well, I needed about two the door for a moment.     hundred and ninety dollars Then he walks to the       and I needed it real center of the room and,    quick, or I'd lose my car. with his back to the       It wasn't in Palm Springs CAMERA, slips into a       and it wasn't in the pair of gray slacks.       garage.  I was way ahead There is a metallic        of the finance company. noise as some loose change and keys drop from the trouser pockets. As Gillis bends over to pick them up, we see that he has dropped the car keys, identifiable be- cause of a rabbit's foot and a miniature license plate attached to the key-ring.  Gillis pockets the keys and as he starts to put on a shirt 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-9     EXTERIOR OF RUDY'S                   GILLIS' VOICE SHOESHINE PARLOR (DAY) I knew they'd be coming A small shack-like build-     around and I wasn't tak- ing, it stands in the         ing any chances, so I corner of a public park-      kept it a couple of ing lot.  Rudy, a             blocks away in a parking colored boy, is giving        lot behind Rudy's Shoe- a customer a shine.           shine Parlor.  Rudy never asked any quest- ions.  He'd just look at your heels and know the score. 
PAN BEHIND the shack to GILLIS' CAR, a yellow 1946 Plymouth convertible with the top down.  Gillis enters the SHOT.  He is wearing a tweed sport jacket, a tan polo shirt, and moooasins.  He steps into the car and drives it off.  Rudy winks after him. 
BETTY So you take Plot 27-A, make it glossy, make it slick -- 
SHELDRAKE Carefull Those are dirty words! You sound like a bunch of New York critics.  Thank you, Miss Schaefer. 
BETTY Goodbye, Mr. Gillis. 
GILLIS Goodbye.  Next time I'll write The Naked and the Dead. 
Betty leaves. 
SHELDRAKE Well, seems like Zanuck's got himself a baseball picture. 
GILLIS Mr. Sheldrake, I don't want you to think I thought this was going to win any Academy Award. 
SHELDRAKE (His mind free-wheeling) Of course, we're always looking for a Betty Hutton.  Do you see it as a Betty Hutton? 
GILLIS Frankly, no. 
SHELDRAKE (Amusing himself) Now wait a minute.  If we made it a girls' softball team, put in a few numbers.  Might make a cute musical: It Happened in the Bull Pen -- the story of a Woman. 
GILLIS You trying to be funny?  -- because I'm all out of laughs.  I'm over a barrel and I need a job. 
SHELDRAKE Sure, Gillis.  If something should come along - 
GILLIS Along is no good.  I need it now. 
SHELDRAKE Haven't got a thing. 
GILLIS Any kind of assignment.  Additional Dialogue. 
SHELDRAKE There's nothing, Gillis.  Not even if you were a relative. 
GILLIS (Hating it) Look, Mr. Sheldrake, could you let me have three hundred bucks yourself, as a personal loan? 
SHELDRAKE Could I?  Gillis, last year some- body talked me into buying a ranch in the valley.  So I borrowed money from the bank so I could pay for the ranch.  This year I had to mortgage the ranch so I could keep up my life insurance so I could borrow on the insurance so I could pay my income tax.  Now if Dewey had been elected - 
GILLIS Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-12    EXT. SCHWAB'S DRUG STORE (EARLY AFTERNOON ACTIVITY)         GILLIS' VOICE After that I drove down MOVE IN toward drug store   to headquarters.  That's and                         the way a lot of us think about Schwab's Drug Store. DISSOLVE TO:                Actors and stock girls and waiters.  Kind of a combination office,Kaffee- A-13    INT. SCHWAB'S DRUG STORE    Klatsch and waiting room. Waiting, waiting for the The usual Schwabadero       gravy train. crowd sits at the fount- ain, gossips at the cigar-stand, loiters by the magazine display. MOVE IN towards the TWO TELEPHONE BOOTHS.  In       I got myself ten nickels one of them sits Gillis,    and started sending out a stack of nickels in       a general S.O.S.  Couldn't front of him.  He's         get hold of my agent, doing a lot of talking      naturally.  So then I into the telephone,         called a pal of mine,name hanging up, dropping        of Artie Green -- an awful another nickel, dialing,    nice guy, an assistant talking again.              director.  He cquld let me have twenty, but twenty wouldn't do. 
GILLIS' VOICE (Cont.) Then I talked to a couple of yes men at Twentieth.  To me they said no.  Finally I located that agent of mine, the big faker.  Was he out digging up a job for poor Joe Gillis? Hmph! He was hard at work in Bel Air, making with the golf clubs. 
Gillis hangs up with a curse, opens the door of the booth, emerges, wiping the sweat from his forehead. He walks toward the exit.  He is stopped by the voice of 
SKOLSKY Hello, Gillis. 
Gillis looks around.  At the fountain sits Skolsky, drinking a cup of coffee. 
GILLIS Hello, Mr. Skolsky. 
SKOLSKY Got anything for the column? 
GILLIS Sure.  Just sold an original for a hundred grand.  The Life of the Warner Brothers.  Starring the Ritz Brothers.  Playing opposite the Andrew Sisters. 
SKOLSKY (With a sour smile) But don't get me wrong -- I love Hollywood. 
Gillis walks out. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-14    THE BEL AIR GOLF LINKS 
On a sun-dappled green edged with tall sycamores, stands Morino, the agent, a caddy and a nondescript opponent in the background.  Gillis has evidently stated his problem already. 
MORINO So you need three hundred dollars? Of course, I could give you three hundred dollars.  Only I'm not going to. 
GILLIS No? 
GILLIS I just put my car in the garage. I had a blow-out.  I thought -- 
MAX Go on in. 
There is authority in the gesture of his white- gloved hand as he motions Gillis inside. 
GILLIS Look, maybe I'd better take my car -- 
MAX Wipe your feet! 
Automatically, Gillis wipes his feet on an enormous shabby cocoanut mat. 
MAX You are not dressed properly. 
GILLIS Dressed for what? 
THE WOMAN'S VOICE Max!  Have him come up, Max! 
MAX (Gesturing) Up the stairs! 
GILLIS Suppose you listen just for a minute - 
MAX Madame is waiting. 
GILLIS For me?  Okay. 
Gillis enters. 
A-31    INT. NORMA DESMOND'S ENTRANCE HALL 
It is grandiose and grim.  The whole place is one of those abortions of silent-picture days, with bowling alleys in the cellar and a built-in pipe organ, and beams imported from Italy, with California termites at work on them.  Portieres are drawn before all the windows, and only thin slits or sunlight find their way in to fight the few electric bulbs which are always burning. 
Gillis starts up the curve of the black marble staircase.  It has a wrought-iron rail and a worn velvet rope along the wall. 
MAX (From below) If you need help with the coffin call me. 
The oddity of the situation has caught Gillis' imagination.  He climbs the stairs with a kind of morbid fascination.  At the top he stops, undecided, then turns to the right and is stopped by 
WOMAN'S VOICE This way! 
Gillis swings around. 
Norma Desmond stands down the corridor next to a doorway from which emerges a flickering light.  She is a little woman.  There is a curious style, a great sense of high voltage about her.  She is dress- ed in black house pyjamas and black high-heeled pumps.  Around her throat there is a leopard-pat- terned scarf, and wound around her head a turban of the same material.  Her skin is very pale, and she is wearing dark glasses. 
NORMA In here.  I put him on my massage table in front of the fire.  He always liked fires and poking at them with a stick. 
Gillis enters the SHOT and she leads him into 
A-32    NORMA DESMOND'S BEDROOM 
It is a huge, gloomy room hung in white brocade which has beconle dirty over the years and even slightly torn in a few places.  There's a great, unmade gilded bed in the shape of a swan, from which the gold had begun to peel.  There is a disorder of clothes and negligees and faded photographs of old-time stars about. 
In an imitation baroque fireplace some logs are burn- ing.  On the massage table before it lies a small form shrouded under a Spanish shawl.  At each end on a baroque pedestal stands a three-branched cande- labrum, the candles lighted. 
NORMA I've made up my mind we'll bury him in the garden.  Any city laws against that? 
GILLIS I wouldn't know. 
NORMA I don't care anyway.  I want the coffin to be white.  And I want it specially lined with satin. White, or deep pink. 
She picks up the shawl to make up her mind about the color.  From under the shawl flops down a dead arm. Gillis stares and recoils a little.  It is like a child's arm, only black and hairy. 
NORMA Maybe red.  bright flaming red. Gay.  Let's make it gay. 
Gillis edges closer and glances down.  Under the shawl he sees the sad, bearded face of a dead chimpanzee.  Norma drops back the shawl. 
NORMA How much will it be?  I warn you - don't give me a fancy price just because I'm rich. 
GILLIS Lady.  you've got the wrong man. 
NORMA The wind gets in that blasted pipe organ.  I ought to have it taken out. 
GILLIS Or teach it a better tune. 
Norma has led him to the card tables which stand side by side near a window.  They are piled high with papers scrawled in a large, uncertain hand. 
NORMA How long is a movie script these days?  I mean, how many pages? 
GILLIS Depends on what it is -- a Donald Duck or Joan or Arc. 
NORMA This is to be a very important picture.  I have written it myself.  Took me years. 
GILLIS (Looking at the piles of script) Looks like enough for six impor- tant pictures. 
NORMA It's the story or Salome.  I think I'll have DeMille direct it. 
GILLIS Uh-huh. 
NORMA We've made a lot of pictures together. 
GILLIS And you'll play Salome? 
NORMA Who else ? 
GILLIS Only asking.  I did't know you were planning a comeback. 
NORMA I hate that word.  It is a return. A return to the millions of people who have never forgiven me for deserting the screen. 
GILLIS Fair enough. 
NORMA Salome -- what a woman! What a part! The Princess in love with a Holy man.  She dances the Dance of the Seven Veils.  He rejects her, so she demands his head on a golden tray, kissing his cold, dead lips. 
GILLIS They'll love it in Pomona. 
NORMA (Taking it straight) They will love it every place. (She reaches for a batch of pages from the heap) Read it.  Read the scene just before she has him killed! 
GILLIS Right now?  Never let another writer read your stuff.  He may steal it. 
NORMA I am not afraid.  Read it! 
NORMA (Cont'd) (Calling) Max!  Max! (To Gillis) Sit down.  Is there enough light? 
GILLIS I've got twenty-twenty vision. 
Max has entered. 
NORMA Bring something to drink. 
MAX Yes.  Madame. 
He leaves.  Norma turns to Gillis again. 
NORMA I said sit down. 
There is compulsion in her voice. 
Gillis looks at her                   GILLIS' VOICE and starts slowly          Well.  I had no pressing reading.                   engagement, and she'd men- tioned something to drink.. Max comes in, wheeling     Sometimes it's interesting a wicker tea wagon on      to see just how bad bad which are two bottles o    writing can be.  This prom- f champagne and two        ised to go the limit.  I red Venetian glasses,      wondered what a handwriting a box of zwieback and      expert would make of that a jar of caviar.  Norma    childish scrawl of hers. sits on her feet.  deep    Max wheeled in some champagne in a chair, a gold ring    and some caviar.  Later, I on her forefinger with     found out that Max was the a clip which holds a       only other person in that cigarette.  She gets up    grim Sunset castle, and I and forces on Gillis       found out a few other things another batch of script,   about him... As for her, she goes back to her chair.    sat coiled up like a watch spring, her cigarette clamped in a curious holder... I could sense her eyes on me from behind those dark glasses, defying me not to like what I read, or maybe begging me in her own proud way to like it.  It meant so much to her... 
A-34    SHOT OF THE                       GILLIS' VOICE CEILING                It sure was a cozy set-up. That bundle of raw nerves,and PAN DOWN to the moan-  Max, and a dead monkey upstair ing organ.  PAN OVER   and the wind wheezing through TO THE ENTRANCE DOOR.  that organ once in a while. Max opens it, and a    Later on, just for comedy solemn-faced man in    relief, the real guy arrived undertaker's clothes   with a baby coffin.  It was brings in a small      all done with great dignity. white coffin.  (Thru   He must have been a very these shots the room   important chimp.  The great has been growing       grandson of King Kong, maybe. duskier.) 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A-35    GILLIS                 It got to be eleven.  I was feeling a little sick at my reading.  The lamp     stomach, what with that sweet beside him is now      champagne and that tripe I'd really paying its      been reading -- that silly way in the dark room.  hodgepodge of melodramatic A lot of the manu-     plots.  However, by then I'd script pages are       started concocting a little piled on the floor     plot of my own... around his feet.  A half-empty champagne glass stands on the arm of his chair. 
THE CAMERA SLOWLY DRAWS BACK to include Norma Desmond sitting in the dusk, just as she was before. Gillis puts down a batch of script.  There is a little pause. 
NORMA (Impatiently) Well? 
GILLIS This is fascinating. 
Max pushes open a door at the top of the stairs. 
MAX (Opening the door) I made your bed this afternoon. 
GILLIS Thanks. (On second thought) How did you know I was going to stay, this afternoon? 
Max doesn't answer.  He walks across to the bed, screws a bulb in the open socket above it.  The light goes on, revealing: 
A-37    A GABLED BEDROOM 
There are dirty windows on two sides, and dingy wall- paper on the cracked plaster walls.  For furniture there is a neatly made bed, a table and a few chairs which might have been discarded from the main house. 
MAX This room has not been used for a long time. 
GILLIS It will never make house Beautiful. I guess it's O.K. for one night. 
Max gives him an enigmatic look. 
MAX (Pointing) There is the bathroom.  I put in soap and a toothbrush. 
GILLIS Thanks. (He starts taking off his coat) Say, she's quite a character, that Norma Desmond. 
MAX She was the greatest.  You wouldn't know.  You are too young.  In one week she got seventeen thousand fan letters.  Men would bribe her mani- curist to get clippings from her fingernails.  There was a Maharajah who came all the way from Hyderabad to get one of her stockings.  Later, he strangled himself with it. 
GILLIS I sure turned into an interesting driveway. 
MAX You did, sir. GILLIS' VOICE He goes out.  Gillis     I pegged him as slightly looks after him, hangs   cuckoo, too.  A stroke maybe. his coat over a chair,   Come to think of it, the walks over to the win-   whole place seemed to have dow, pulls down the      been stricken with a kind of rickety Venetian blind.  creeping paralysis, out of As he does so, he looks  beat with the rest of the down at:                 world, crumbling apart in slow motion ... 
A-38    THE TENNIS COURT OF                 GILLIS' VOICE THE DESMOND HOUSE        There was a tennis court, or (MOONLIGHT)              rather the ghost of a tennis court, with faded markings The cement surface is    and sagging net ... cracked in many places, and weeds are growing high. 
A-39    GILLIS - IN THE WINDOW 
He looks away from the court to: 
A-40    THE DESMOND SWIMMING POOL GILLIS' VOICE There is no water in     And of course she had a pool. it, and hunks of         Who didn't then?  Mabel Norm- mosaic which lines its   and and John Gilbert must enormous basin are       have swum in it ten thousand broken away.             midnights ago, and Vilma Banky and Rod La Roque.  It was empty now....or was it? 
A-41    GILLIS - IN THE WINDOW 
He stares down, his stomach slowly turning. 
A-42    THE SWIMMING POOL 
At the bottom of the basin a great rat is eating a decaying or,ange.  From the inlet pipe crawl two other rats, who join battle with the first rat over the orange. 
A-43    GILLIS -IN THE WINDOW 
He starts away, but some-           GILLIS' VOICE thing attracts his atten-      There was something tion.  He turns back and       else going on below: looks down again.              the last rites for that hairy old chimp, performed with the A-44    THE LAWN BELOW                 utmost seriousness -- as if she were laying Norma Desmond and Max are      to rest an only child. carrying the white coffin      Was her life really towards a small grave as       as empty as that? which has been dug in the dead turf.  Norma carries one of the candelabra, all of its candles flickering in the wind.  They reach the grave and lower the coffin into it.  Then, Norma lighting his task with the candelabrum, Max takes a spade from the loose earth and starts filling in the grave. 
A-45    GILLIS - IN THE WINDOW 
He watches the scene be-            GILLIS' VOICE low, then turns into the       It was all very queer, room, goes to the door         but queerer things to lock it.  There is no       were yet to come. key, and only a hole where the lock has been gouged out.  Gillis moves a heavy overstuffed chair in front of the door, then walks towards the bed, throws himself on it, picking up some of the manuscript pages to read. 
DISSOLVE 
END OF SEQUENCE "A" 
SEQUENCE "B" 
DISSOLVE IN ON: 
B-1    LONG SHOT THE DESMOND HOUSE - (MORNING) 
The day is overcast.  The     SOUND: (Distant organ house is shrouded in low      music - improvisations fog.                          on an odd, mournful theme - not too loud, continuing throughout B-2    THE TENNIS COURT, blurred     the scene.) over with fog. 
B-3    THE EMPTY SWIMMING POOL Its dark outline even more melancholy under the misty blanket. 
B-4    THE ROOM OVER THE GARAGE 
Muted daylight seeps               GILLIS' VOICE through the blinds.  Gillis   That night I'd had a lies on the bed, under a      mixed-up dream.  In it shabby quilt.  The manu-      was an organ grinder. script is beside him, some    I couldn't see his of the pages scattered on     face, but the organ the floor.  He is just        was all draped in opening his eyes. It takes    black, and a chimp was him a moment to adjust him-   dancing for pennies. self to the strange sur-      When I opened my eyes, roundings.  His eyes, wander- the music was still ing about the room. suddenly  there... Where was stop, startled. He lifts      I? himself on one elbow and stares at - 
NORMA What's that? 
GILLIS Just a scene I cut out. 
NORMA What scene? 
GILLIS The one where you go to the slave market.  You can cut right to the scene where John the Baptist - 
NORMA Cut away from me? 
GILLIS Honestly, it's a little old hat. They don't want that any more. 
NORMA They don't?  Then why do they still write me fan letters every day. Why do they beg me for my photo- graphs?  Because they want to see me, me, me!  Norma Desmond. 
GILLIS (Resigned) Okay. 
He pulls the page from his typewriter. As he does so he glances over towards Norma. GILLIS' VOICE On the table in front        I didn't argue with her. of her are the photo-        You don't yell at a graphs which she is sign-    sleepwalker-- he may fall ing. On the long table       and break his neck.That's in the living room is a      it -- she was still gallery of photographs       sleepwalking along the in various frames -- all     giddy heights of a lost Norma Desmond. On the        career --plain crazy piano more photographs.      when it came to that one Above the piano an oil       subject: her celluloid portrait of her.  On the     self, the great Norma highboy beside him still     Desmond.  How could She more photographs.            breathe in that house, so crowded with Norma DISSOLVE TO:                 Desmonds? More Norma Desmond and still more Norma Desmond. B-9    THE BIG ROOM - (NIGHT) GILLIS' VOICE Shooting towards the big     It wasn't all work - of Gold Rush painting. Max,     course.  Two or three white gloves and all,        times a week Max would steps into the shot, shoves  haul up that enormous oil the painting up towards      painting that had been the ceiling,revealing a      presented to her by some motion picture screen.       Nevada Chamber of Com- Max exits.                   merce, and we'd see a movie,right in her living room. 
B-1O   NORMA AND GILLIS GILLIS' VOICE They sit on a couch,facing    "So much nicer than going the screen. On a table in     out," she'd say.  The front of them are champagne,  plain fact was that she cigarettes and coffee.        was afraid of that world Above their heads are the     outside.  Afraid it typical openings for a pro-   would remind her that jector. The lights go off.    time had passed. From the opening above their heads shoots the wide beam of light. 
B-11   MAX, IN THE PROJECTION        They were silent movies, BOOTH BEHIND THE ROOM         and Max would run the projection machine, which The light of the machine      was just as well -- it flickering over his face,     kept him from giving us which is frozen, a somber     an accompaniment on enigma.                       that wheezing organ. 
B-12   NORMA AND GILLIS She'd sit very close to watching the screen.          me, and she'd smell of Gillis looks down and sees    tuberoses, which is not that Norma's hand is clasp-   my favorite perfume, not ing his ann tight. He         by a long shot. Sometines doesn't like it much but      as we watched, she'd c he can't do anything about    lutch my arm or my hand it. However. when she for     forgetting she was my a second lets go his arm      employer becoming just a to pick up a glass of         fan, excited about that champagne, he gently with-    actress up there on the draws his arm, leans away     screen....I guess I don't from her and crosses his      have to tell you who the arms to discourage any        star was.  They were resumption of her approach.   always her pictures -- Norma puts the glass down     that's all she wanted doesn't find his arn, but     to see. is not aware of any signifi- cance in his maneuver. They both watch the screen. 
B-13   THE OTHER END OF THE BIG ROOM. WITH THE SCREEN 
On it flickers a famous scene from one of Norma's old silent pictures.  It is not to be a funny scene.  It is old-fashioned, but shows her incredible beauty and the screen presence which made her the great star of her day. 
B-14   NORMA AND GILLIS ON THE COUCH 
NORMA Still wonderful, isn't it?  And no dialogue.  We didn't need dialogue.  We had faces.  There just aren't any faces like that any more.  Well, maybe one -- Garbo. 
In a sudden flareup she jumps to her feet and stands in the flickering beam of light. 
NORMA Those idiot producers!  Those imbeciles!  Haven't they got any eyes?  Have they forgotten what a star looks like?  I'll show them. I'll be up there again.  So help me! 
DISSOLVE TO: 
B-15   THE BIG ROOM - (NIGHT) 
It is apparently empty.            GILLIS' VOICE The elaborate lamps         Sometimes there'd be a make pools of light.        little bridge game in the house, at a twentieth-of- THE CAMERA PULLS BACK       a cent a point.  I'd get AND PANS to reveal a        half her winnings.  Once card table around           they ran up to seventy which sit Norma and         cents, which was about three friends - three       the only cash money I actors of her period.       ever got.  The others They sit erect and play     around the table would with grim seriousness.      be actor friends - dim figures you may still Beside Norma sits           remember from the silent Gillis, kibitzing on a      days.  I used to think of game which bores him        them as her Wax Works. extremely.  An ashtray on the card table is full and Norma holds it out for Gillis to take away.  He crosses the room to the fire- place. but his eyes fall on the entrance door and he stops. 
B-16   THE ENTRANCE HALL - (FROM GILLIS' POINT OF VIEW) 
Max stands in the open door.  Outside are the two men who came to the apartment for Gillis' car. 
B-17   GILLIS 
He steps back so that he cannot be seen from the door.  A second later Max appears, looking for him. 
MAX (Quietly) Some men are here.  They asked for you. 
GILLIS I'm not here. 
MAX That's what I told them. 
GILLIS Good. 
MAX They found your car in the garage.  They are going to tow it away. 
Gillis doesn't know what to do.  From offstage comes: 
NORMA'S VOICE The ashtray, Joe dear!  Can we have the ashtray? 
Gillis dumps the cigarette butts into the cold fire- place, crosses to the bridge table, puts the ashtray down, leans over and speaks into Norma's ear. 
GILLIS I want to talk to you for a minute. 
NORMA Not now, my dear.  I'm playing three no trump. 
The salesman leaves. 
NORMA How about some evening clothes? 
GILLIS I don't need a tuxedo. 
NORMA Of course you do.  A tuxedo and tails. 
GILLIS Tails.  That's ridiculous. 
NORMA You'll need them for parties. You'll need them for New Year's Eve. (to a salesman) Where are your evening clothes? 
SALESMAN This way, Madame. 
He leads her off.  The other salesman arrives with a selection of topcoats. 
SALESMAN Here are some camel hairs, but I'd like you just to feel this one.  It's Vicuna.  Of course, it's a little more expensive. 
GILLIS A camel's hair will do. 
SALESMAN (With an insulting inflection) As long as the lady is paying for it, why not take the Vicuna? 
DISSOLVE: 
END OF SEQUENCE "B" 
SEQUENCE "C" 
DISSOLVE IN: 
C-1     LONG SHOT DESMOND HOUSE 
A day in December.  Rain. 
QUICK DISSOLVE TO: 
C-2     INT. ROOM OVER GARAGE 
Water is drizzling from            GILLIS' VOICE two or three spots in the   The last week in December ceiling into pans and       the rains came -- a great bowls set to catch it,      big package of rain. one bowl right on the       Over-sized, like every- bed.  The room is almost    thing else in California. emptied of Gillis' be- longings by now.  Max       It came right through is carrying out a hand-     the old roof of my room full of new suits on        above the garage.  She hangers.  He has a          had Max move me to the dressing gown over his      main house.  I didn't shoulder.  Gillis holds     much like the idea -- the a stack of shirts, his      only time I could have typewriter, and some        to myself was in that manuscript.  He surveys     room -- but it was better the room for the last       than sleeping in a rain- time, to see whether        coat and galoshes. he's forgotten any- thing.  He has.  He puts down the typewriter and picks up from under the bed a pair of very smart red leather bedroom slippers.  He tucks them under his arm, picks up the typewriter and leaves. 
QUICK DISSOLVE TO: 
C-3     A BEDROOM IN TIiE MAIN HOUSE 
It is obviously a man's room -- heavy Spanish furniture -- one wall nothing but a closet with shelves and drawers for shirts and shoes.  Max is hanging up the suits.  Gillis throws the shirts on a big chair, tosses the slippers at the foot of the bed, places the typewriter and manuscript on a desk at the window. 
GILLIS Whose room was this? 
MAX It was the room of the husband. Or of the husbands, I should say. Madame has been married three times. 
Slightly embarrassed, Gillis picks up his toilet kit with razor, toothbrushes, soap, etc., and starts towards the bathroom, pausing en route at a rain- splattered window. 
GILLIS I guess this is the one you can see Catalina from.  Only this isn't the day. 
He proceeds towards the half-opened door leading to the bathroom.  Something strikes his attention and he stops.  As in the door to the room above the garage, this lock, too, has been gouged out. 
GILLIS Hey, what's this with the door? There isn't any lock. 
MAX There are no locks anywhere in this house. 
He points to the entrance door of the room, and to another door. 
GILLIS How come? 
MAX The doctor suggested it. 
GILLIS What doctor? 
MAX Madame's doctor.  She has moments of melancholy.  There have been some suicide attempts. 
C-19    ARTIE GREEN'S APARTMENT 
It is the most modest one-room affair, jam packed with young people flowing over into the miniature bathroom and the microscopic kitchenette.  The only drink being served is punch from a pressed-glass bowl -- but everybody is having a hell of a time. Most of the men are in slacks and sweaters, and only a few of the girls in something that vaguely suggests party dress. 
Abe Burroughs sits at a small, guest-festooned piano and sings Tokio Rose.  By the door, a group of young men and girls respond to the song by sing1ng Rinso White or Dentyne Chewing Gum or something similar, in the manner of a Bach choral.  Artie Green, a dark haired, pleasant-looking guy in his late twenties, is conducting with the ladle from the punch bowl. 
The door behind some of the singers is pushed open, jostling them out of their places.  In comes Gillis, his hair and face wet, the collar of his Vicuna coat turned up.  Artie stops conducting, but the commer- cial goes right on. 
ARTIE Well, what do you know ! Joe Gillis ! 
GILLIS Hi, Artie. 
ARTIE Where have you been keeping that gorgeous face of yours? 
GILLIS In a deep freeze. 
ARTIE I almost reported you to the Bureau of Missing Persons. (To the company) Fans, you all know Joe Gillis, the well-known screen writer, opium smuggler and Black Dahlia suspect. 
Gillis greets some of the kids by name as he and Artie push their way into the room. 
ARTIE Give me your coat. 
GILLIS Let it ride for a while. 
ARTIE You're going to stay, aren't you? 
GILLIS That was the general idea. 
ARTIE Come on. 
Artie starts peeling the coat off Gillis.  Its texture takes his breath away. 
ARTIE What is this - mink? 
He has taken the coat.  He looks at Gillis standing there in tails. 
ARTIE Judas E. Priest, who did you borrow that from? Adolphe Menjou? 
GILLIS Close, but no cigar. 
Gillis stands embarrassed While Artie rolls up the Vicuna coat and tucks it above the books on a book- shelf. 
ARTIE Say, you're not really smuggling opium these days,  are you? 
GILLIS Where's the bar? 
The two make their way toward the punch bowl.  It's a little like running the gauntlet for Gillis.  There are whistles and 'stares of astonishlnent at his tails. When they reach the punch bowl, Artie picks up a half-filled glass and fills it. 
GILLIS Good party. 
ARTIE The greatest.  They call me the Elsa Maxwell of the assistant directors. (To some guests who are dipping their empty cups into the punch bowl) Hey, easy on the punch bowl.  Budget only calls for three drinks per extra. Fake the rest. 
GILLIS Listen, Artie, can I stick around here for a while? 
ARTIE Sure, this'll go on all night. 
GILLIS I mean, could you put me up for a couple of weeks? 
ARTIE It just so happens we have a vacancy on the couch. 
GILLIS I'll take it. 
ARTIE I'll have the bell-hop take care of your luggage. 
He runs his finger across the decollete back of a girl standing in a group next them. 
ARTIE Just register here. 
The girl turns around.  She is Betty Schaefer. 
C-31    LIVING ROOM, THE DESMOND HOUSE 
The candles burned down, the orchestra playing to the emptiness.  The orchestra leader looks at his watch, rises, silences the orchestra, then starts them in on Auld Lang Syne. 
C-32    INT. NORMA'S ROOM 
Gillis still stands.  Norma lies on the bed, arms over her eyes, sobbing. 
GILLIS Happy New Year. 
Norma continues to sob.  Gillis goes to the bed, puts his arms on her shoulders and turns her around. 
GILLIS Happy New Year. 
Norma looks at him, tears in her eyes.  Slowly she enfolds him in her bandaged arms. 
NORMA Happy New Year.  darling. 
She kisses him. 
DISSOLVE 
END OF SEQUENCE "C" 
SEQUENCE "D" 
DISSOLVE IN ON: 
D-1     INT. HALLWAY, NORMA              GILLIS' VOICE DESMOND'S HOUSE (DAY)       Around the middle of May some incidents happened The telephone is heard      which I think I should tell ringing.  Max comes from    you about. living room to the phone, picks it up. 
MAX Hello ... Yes? 
D-1a    BETTY SCHAEFER, AT THE PHONE ON HER DESK IN THE READERS' DEPARTMENT 
BETTY Is this Crestview 5-1733? ... I'm sorry to bother you again, but I've confirmed the number.  I must speak to Mr. Gillis. 
D-1b    MAX, AT THE PHONE 
MAX He is not here. 
D-1c    BETTY ON THE PHONE 
BETTY Where can I reach him?  Maybe somebody else in the house could tell me. 
D-1d    MAX ON THE PHONE 
MAX Nobody here can give you any information.  You will please not call again. 
He hangs up.  From off comes: 
NORMA'S VOICE Who was it, Max?  What is it? 
D-1e    PATIO, NORMA'S HOUSE 
It is a sunny day.  The garden is in somewhat better shape.  The old house looks less unkept.  The pool is filled.  Norma sits on a wicker chaise longue, her face shielded by an enormous straw hat, her eyes by dark glasses.  Gillis, in bathing trunks, is on a rubber mattress in the pool.  Max comes to the entrance door. 
MAX Nothing, Madame.  Somebody Inqu- iring about a stray dog.  We must have a number very similar to the pound. 
He starts to turn back. 
NORMA Wait a minute.  I want you to get out the car.  You're going to take the script over to Paramount and deliver it to Mr. De Mille in person. 
MAX Yes, Madame. 
He goes into the house. 
GILLIS (climbing out of the water) You're really going to send it to De Mille? 
NORMA This is the right day. 
BETTY Sheldrake likes that angle about the teacher. 
GILLIS What teacher? 
BETTY Dark Windows.  I got him all hopped up about it. 
GILLIS You did? 
BETTY He thinks it could be made into something. 
GILLIS Into what? A lampshade? 
BETTY Into something for Barbara Stan- wyck.  They have a commitment with Barbara Stanwyck. 
ARTIE Unless you'd rather have Sarah Bernhardt. 
BETTY This is on the level.  Sheldrake really went for it. 
GILLIS O.K.  Where's the cash? 
BETTY Where's the story? I bluffed it out with a few notions of my own. It's really just a springboard. It needs work. 
GILLIS I was afraid of that. 
BETTY I've got twenty pages of notes. I've got a pretty good character for the man. 
ARTIE Could you write in plenty of back- ground action, so they'll need an extra assistant director? 
BETTY Shut up, Artie. (To Gillis) Now if we could sit down for two weeks and get a story. 
GILLIS Sorry, Miss Schaefer, but I've given up writing on spec. 
BETTY I tell you this is half sold. 
GILLIS As a matter of fact.  I've given up writing altogether. 
Max has appeared in the door. 
MAX Mr. Gillis, if you please. 
GILLIS Right with you. 
Max leaves. 
ARTIE The accent! I've got it: this guy is in the pay of a foreign government. Get those studs.  Get those cuff-links. 
GILLIS I've got to run along.  Thanks any- way for your interest in my career. 
BETTY It's not your career -- it's mine. I kind of hoped to get in on this deal.  I don't want to be a reader all my life.  I want to write. 
GILLIS Sorry if I crossed you up. 
BETTY You sure have. 
GILLIS So long. 
He leaves. 
ARTIE (Patting her hand) Babe, it's like that producer says: In life, you've got to take the bitter with the sour. 
D-6     THE ISOTTA, PARKED OUTSIDE 
Gillis comes from Schwab's, gets into the car. 
Max takes off. 
NORMA What on earth, darling? It took you hours. 
GILLIS I ran into some people I knew. 
She is in full makeup,             GILLIS' VOICE with a veil, a daring     About three days later she hat, a suit so stunning   was good and ready.  In- only she would venture    credible as it may seem, to wear it.  THE CAMERA   there had been some more PULLS BACK.  Beside her   of those calls from sits Gillis in the glen   Paramount.  So she put on plaid suit.  Max is       about half a pound of driving.                  makeup, fixed it up with a veil, and set forth to see deMille in person. 
Norma is examining her face in the mirror of her vanity.  Max, while driving, sees her in the rear view mirror. 
MAX If you will pardon me, Madame. The shadow over the left eye is not quite balanced. 
NORMA Thank you, Max. 
With a handkerchief, she corrects it. 
D-9     MAIN GATE, EXT. PARAMOUNT STUDIO 
The car drives down Bronson and stops smack in front of the iron gate.  A young policeman is talking to an extra; an old policeman sits reading a newspaper. Max sounds the horn impatiently. 
YOUNG POLICEMAN Hold that noise! 
MAX To see Mr. de Mille.  Open the gate. 
YOUNG POLICEMAN Mr. deMille is shooting.  You got an appointment? 
MAX No appointment is necessary.  I am bringing Norma Desmond. 
YOUNG POLICEMAN Norma Who? 
Norma has rolled down the window on her side.  She calls to the old policeman. 
NORMA Jonesy! Come here, Jonesy! 
OLD POLICEMAN Yeah? (He comes forward slowly) Why, if it isn't Miss Desmond! How have you been, Miss Desmond? 
NORMA Fine, Jonesy.  Now open that gate. 
OLD POLICEMAN Sure, Miss Desmond. (To the young policeman} Come on, Mac. 
YOUNG POLICEMAN They can't drive on the lot without a pass. 
OLD POLICEMAN Miss Desmond can.  Come on. 
They fling open the gate. 
OLD POLICEMAN (As the car drives through) Stage eighteen, Miss Desmond. 
NORMA Thank you, Jonesy.  And teach your friend some manners.  Tell him without me he wouldn't have any job, because without me there wouldn't be any Paramount Studio. (To Max) Go on. 
They drive through the gates.  The old policeman goes to wall phone beside the gate, dials a number. 
OLD POLICEMAN (Into phone) Norma Desmond coming in to see Mr. deMille. 
D-10    STAGE 18 
A scene from SAMPSON AND DELILAH is being rehearsed in the background.  The usual turbulent activity surrounds it: extras.  makeup men, grips, assistants, etc., etc.  In the dim foreground a stage hand is answering a stand telephone.  He puts down the phone and moves (CAMERA WITH HIM) to a second assistant. 
STAGE HAND Norma Desmond is coming to see Mr. deMille. 
The second assistant walks (CAMERA WITH HIM) to the first assistant. 
2nd ASSISTANT Norma Desmond coming in to see Mr. deMille. 
The first assistant (CAMERA WITH HIM) hurries to the set.  Sitting with his back toward us is C.B. himself.  He is rehearsing a scene with Hedy Lamarr. 
1ST ASSISTANT Norma Desmond is coming in to see you, Mr. deMille. 
C. B. turns his head. 
DEMILLE Norma Desmond? 
lst ASSISTANT She must be a million years old. 
DEMILLE I hate to think where that puts me.  I could be her father. 
NORMA And if you hadn't been pretty darned interested in that script, he wouldn't have tried to get me on the phone ten times. 
DE MILLE Gordon Cole... Look, Norma, I'm in the middle of a rehearsal. (Indicating his own chair) Make yourself comfortable. 
He walks onto the set, accompanied by his assistants. 
DE MILLE (Sotto voce, to his first assistant) Get me Gordon Cole on the phone. 
Meanwhile, Norma starts to sit, sees the name MISS LAMARR on the chair and with a look of distaste changes and sits on the one marked C.B. DE MILLE.    From somewhere comes 
A VOICE Hey, Miss Desmond! Miss Desmond! 
She looks around her. 
VOICE Up here! 
Norma looks up at the scaffolding. 
On the scaffold stands one of the electricians, next to his light. 
ELECTRICIAN It's met It's Hog-eyel 
Norma waves at him. 
NORMA Hello. 
Hog-eye points his light at her. 
HOG-EYE Let's get a look at you. 
The beam of the lamp moves toward Norma.  It hits her.  She sits bathed in light.  A couple of old costume extras recognize her. 
EXTRAS Say, it's Norma! Norma Desmond! 
They rush over and start wringing her hand.  Into the shot comes a middle-aged hairdresser. 
HAIRDRESSER Hello, Miss Desmond.  It's Bessie. 
Some elderly electricians and stagehands move in. 
D-14    ANOTHER PART OF THE STAGE 
The first assistant brings the portable phone to deMille.  DeMille lifts the receiver. 
DE MILLE Hello. 
D-15    GORDON COLE'S OFFICE IN THE PROPERTY DEPARTMENT, GORDON COLE ON THE PHONE. 
COLE Prop Department.  Gordon Cole speaking. 
D-16    DE MILLE ON THE PHONE 
DE MILLE Cole, this is C. B. deMille.  Have you been calling Norma Desmond?... What's it about? 
D-17    GORDON COLE, ON THE PHONE 
COLE It's that car of hers -- an old Isotta-Fraschini.  Her chauffeur drove it on the lot the other day. It looks just right for the Crosby picture.  We want to rent it for a couple of weeks. 
D-18    DE MILLE ON THE PHONE 
DE MILLE (Troubled) Oh.  Well, thank you. 
He hangs up, walks back towards Norma.  (CAMERA WITH HIM). 
Norma stills sits in the shaft of light, surrounded by about a dozen people who have come up to pay court. DeMille gestures up to Hog-eye and the light shifts away.  The people about Norma disperse slowly with various ad-libs. 
DE MILLE Well, Norma ... (He sits down next to her) I got hold of Gordon Cole. 
Norma hasn't heard a word. 
Gillis sits on the desk. 
GILLIS I mean it.  It's no good to me anyway.  Help yourself. 
BETTY Why should you do that? 
GILLIS If you get a hundred thousand for it, you buy me a box of chocolate creams.  If you get an Oscar, I get the left foot. 
BETTY You know, I'd take you up on that in a minute.  I'm just not good enough to do it all by myself. 
GILLIS What about all those ideas you had? 
BETTY See if they make sense.  To begin with, I think you should throw out all that psychological stuff -- exploring a killer's sick mind. 
GILLIS Psychopaths sell like hotcakes. 
BETTY This story is about teachers -- their threadbare lives, their struggles.  Here are people doing the most important job in the world, and they have to wprry about getting enough money to re-sole their shoes.  To me it can be as exciting as any chase, any gunplay. 
GILLIS Check. 
BETTY Now I see her teaching day classes while he teaches night school.  The first time they meet ... 
From below comes the SOUND of the Isotta's horn. 
GILLIS Look, if you don't mind, I haven't got time to listen to the whole plot ... 
BETTY I'll make it short. 
GILLIS Sorry.  It's your baby now. 
BETTY I'm not good enough to write it alone.  We'll have to do it together. 
GILLIS I'm all tied up.  I can't. 
BETTY Couldn't we work in the evenings? Six o'clock in the morning? This next month I'm completely at your disposal.  Artie is out of town. 
GILLIS What has Artie to do with it. 
BETTY We're engaged. 
GILLIS Good for you.  You've got yourself the best guy in town. 
BETTY I think so.  They're on location in Arizona, shooting a Western. I'm free every evening, every week- end.  If you want, we could work at your place. 
GILLIS It's just impossible. 
BETTY Nobody can be that busy. 
There is another honk: from down below. 
GILLIS Look, Betty, It can't be done. It's out. 
BETTY You're tough, all right. 
GILLIS You're on your own.  Stop being chicken-hearted and write that story. 
BETTY Honest to goodness, I hate you. 
GILLIS (Turning 1n the open door) And don't make it too dreary.  How about this for a situation: she teaches daytimes.  He teaches at night.  Right?  They don't even know each other, but they share the same room.  It's cheaper that way.  As a matter of fact, they sleep in the same bed -- in shifts, of oourse. 
BETTY Are you kidding? Because I think it's good. 
GILLIS So do I. 
BETTY Came  on back.  Let me show you where it fits in. 
She reaches in a drawer for her notes on Dark Windows. 
GILLIS (At the door) So long. 
E-3     NORMA BEFORE THE MIRROR IN HER BEDROOM 
It is nine o'clock in the evening.  She is in night gown and negligee and has put triangular patches on the saddle of her nose and at the outer corner of each eye.  She is rubbing lotion on her hands. 
She gets up and crosses to the door of Gillis' room and opens it a crack. 
NORMA Joe darling, are you there? 
E-4     GILLIS' ROOM 
It is dark except for a lamp over the chaise longue. Gillis lies on it, fully clothed, reading a book. 
GILLIS Yes, Norma. 
Through the slit in the door there is a suggestion of Norma. 
NORMA Don't turn around.  Keep your eyes on the book. 
GILLIS Yes, Norma. 
Norma pushes the door open and comes in. 
NORMA I just came to say good night. I don't want you to see me -- I'm not very attractive. 
GILLIS Good night. 
NORMA I've lost half a pound since Tuesday. 
GILLIS Good. 
NORMA I was a little worried about the line of my throat.  This woman has done wonders with it. 
GILLIS Good. 
NORMA You'd better get to bed yourself. 
GILLIS I think I'll read a little. 
NORMA You went out last night, didn't you, Joe? 
GILLIS Why do you say that? 
NORMA I just happen to know it.  I had a nightmare and I screamed for you.  You weren't here.  Where were you? 
GILLIS I went for a walk. 
NORMA No you didn't.  You took the car. 
GILLIS All right, I drove to the beach. Norma, you don't want me to feel I'm locked up in this house? 
NORMA Of course not, Joe.  It's just that I don't want to be left alone. Not now, while I'm under this terrible strain.  My nerves are being torn apart.  All I ask is for you to be a little patient and a little kind. 
GILLIS I haven't done anything, Norma. 
NORMA Of course you haven't.  I wouldn't let you. 
She bends and kisses the top of his head. 
NORMA Good night, my darling. 
She goes into her room, shutting the door behind her. 
Gillis puts his book down and looks at her door. 
E-5     THE DOOR TO NORMA'S ROOM 
The light can be seen through the gouged-out keyhole.  It goes out. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
GILLIS Stop crying.  You're getting married.  That's what you've always wanted. 
BETTY I don't want it now. 
GILLIS Why not? Don't you love Artie? 
BETTY Of course I love him.  I always will.  I'm just not in love with him any more. 
GILLIS What happened? 
BETTY You did. 
There is a moment's pause before he takes her in his arms.  THE CAMERA MOVES AWAY. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
E-19    HALL AND STAIRCASE                  GILLIS' VOICE DESMOND HOME- (NIGHT)        It wasn' t until I got back to that peculiar Gillis enters, closes        prison of mine that I the door as quietly as       started facing the facts. he can, and goes up          There it was -- Betty the stairs.                  Schaefer's future right in the palm of my hand. E-20    GILLIS' ROOM                 Betty Schaefer engaged to Artie Green, as nice He enters and turns on the   a guy as ever lived. light.  He sinks down on     And she was in love with the chaise longue,thinking.  me.  Me ! She was a fool His eyes wander to the       not to sense that there door of Norma's room.        was something phony in Through the gouged-out key-  my set-up.  And I was a hole he sees the light.      heel not to have told her.  But you just can't say those things to somebody you're crazy about.  Maybe I'd never have to.  Maybe I could get away with it, get away from Norma.  Maybe I could wipe the whole nasty mess right out of my life... From Norma's room comes the sound of a telephone being dialled.  Gillis enters the shot and stands listening. 
NORMA'S VOICE Is this Gladstone 0858? 
E-21    NORMA'S BEDROOM Norma lies in bed, dialing a number.  She has the beauty patches at the corners of her eyes and over her nose. 
NORMA Can I speak to Miss Betty Schaefer? She must be home by now. 
E-22    A BEDROOM IN BETTY'S FLAT 
Connie, a girl of Betty's age with whom she shares the flat, is on the phone.  Betty, in a dressing- gown, comes from the bathroom, toothbrush in hand. 
CONNIE (Hand over mouthpiece) Betty, here's that weird-sounding woman again. 
BETTY What is this anyway? (Taking the phone) This is Betty Schaefer. 
E-23    NORMA AT IHE PHONE 
NORMA Miss Schaefer, you must forgive me for calling you so late, but I really feel it's my duty.  It's about Mr. Gillis.  You do know Mr. Gillis? ...Exactly how much do you know about him? Do you know where he lives? Do you know how he lives? Do you know what he lives on? 
E-24    BETTY AT THE PHONE 
BETTY Who are you? What do you want? What business is it of yours anyway? 
E-25    NORMA ON THE PHONE 
NORMA Miss Schaefer, I'm trying to do you a favor.  I'm trying to spare you a great deal of misery.  Of course you may be too young to even suspect there are men of his sort... 
NORMA (Cont'd) I don't know what he's told you, but he does not live with relatives, nor with friends, in the usual sense of the word.  Ask him ... Ask him again. 
During the latter part of her call, the doors from Gillis' room have been pushed open and Gillis has walked towards her.  Suddenly Norma senses his pre- sence and turns around.  The telephone freezes in her hand.  She tries to hang it up.  Very calmly Gillis takes the receiver from her hand. 
GILLIS (Into phone) That's right, Betty, ask me again. This is Joe. 
E-26    BETTY ON THE PHONE 
BETTY Joe, where are you? What's this all about? 
E-27    GILLIS ON THE PHONE 
Norma beside him. 
GILLIS Or maybe it would be a better idea if you came over and saw it for yourself.  The address is 10086 
He hangs up.  Norma looks up at him as he crosses to the other end of the room and stands staring at her. The silence becomes unbearable. 
NORMA Don't hate me, Joe.  I did it because I need you.  I need you as I never needed you.  Look at me.  Look at my hands, look at my face, look under my eyes.  How can I go back to work if I'm wasting away under this torment? You don't know what I've been through these last weeks.  I got myself a revolver. You don't believe me, but I did, I did! I stood in front of that mirror, only I couldn't make myself.  It wouldn't be 
NORMA (Cont'd) fair to all those people who are waiting to see me back on the screen.  I can't disappoint them. Only, if I'm to work, I need sleep, I need quiet, I need you! Don't just stand there hating me! Shout at me, strike me! But don't hate me, Joe.  Don't you hear me, Joe? 
GILLIS Yes, I hear you.  And I wish you'd keep still so I can hear the doorbell when she rings it. 
E-28    BETTY AND CONNIE, DRIVING IN A SMALL COUPE DOWN (NIGHT) 
GILLIS Jealous.  Ever see so much junk? She had the ceiling brought from Portugal.  Look at this. 
He pulls the rope, showing the projection screen under the picture. 
GILLIS Her own movie theatre. 
BETTY I didn't come here to see a house. What about Norma Desmond? 
GILLIS I'm trying to tell you.  This is an enormous place.  Eight master bedrooms.  A sunken tub in every bathroom.  There's a bowling alley in the cellar.  It's lonely here, so she got herself a companion. A very simple set-up: An older woman who is well-to-do.  A younger man who is not doing too well ... Can you figure it out yourself? 
BETTY No. 
GILLIS All right.  I'll give you a few more clues. 
BETTY No, no! I haven't heard any of this.  I never got those telephone calls.  I've never been in this house ... Get your things together. Let's get out of here. 
GILLIS All my things? All the eighteen suits, all the custom-made shoes and the eighteen dozen shirts, and the cuff-links and the platinum key- chains, and the cigarette cases? 
BETTY Come on, Joe. 
GILLIS Come on where? Back to a one-room apartment that I can't pay for? Back to a story that may sell and very possibly will not? 
BETTY If you love me, Joe. 
GILLIS Look, sweetie -- be practical. l've got a good thing here. A long-term contract with no options. I like it that way.  Maybe it's not very admirable.  Well, you and Artie can be admirable. 
BETTY Joe, I can't look at you any more. 
GILLIS Nobody asked you to. 
Betty turns from him, to hide the fact that she is crying. 
GILLIS All right, baby.  This way out. 
He leads her in the direction of the door. 
E-33    UPPER LANDING, DESMOND HOUSE 
Sitting crouched behind the balustrade is Norma, peering down into 
E-34    THE LOWER HALL 
Betty and Gillis have reached the entrance door. Gillis opens it. 
GILLIS Good luck to you, Betty.  You can finish that story on the way to Arizona.  When you and Artie get back, if the two of you ever feel like a swim, here's the pool ... 
He switches on the light. 
E-35    THE PATIO 
The lights go on in the pool, which shines brilliant- ly in the dark garden. 
E-36    BETTY 
She doesn't even look.  Her eyes filled with tears, she runs down the entrance porch toward her car. 
E-37    THE ENTRANCE HALL 
Gillis looks after her, closes the door.  From the upper landing comes the sound of soft sobbing.  He looks up. 
E-38    NORMA, ON THE UPPER LANDING 
Gillis ascends the stairs. 
NORMA Thank you, Joe -- thank you, Joe. 
She tries to take his hand to kiss it as he passes. He doesn't stop.  Norma catches his coat.  Gillis moves right on into his room.  Norma lies on the floor looking after him.  She crawls toward a con- sole, pulls herself up by it, starts towards Gillis' door, passes a mirror, realizes how she looks, moves back to the mirror and takes the patches off her face and does a hasty job of removing the cream with her handkerchief, readjusts her expression to a poor travesty of a smile and goes to the door of Gillis' room. 
NORMA May I come in?  I've stopped cry- ing.  I'm all right again.  Joe, tell me you're not cross -- tell me everything is just as it was, Joe. 
GILLIS Norma, grow up.  You're a woman of fifty.  There's nothing tragic about being fifty - not unless you try to be twenty-five. 
NORMA I'm the greatest star of them all. 
GILLIS Goodbye.  Norma. 
NORMA No one leaves a star.  That makes one a star. 
Gillis picks up the typewriter and leaves. 
NORMA You're not leaving me! 
E-40    STAIRCASE 
Gillis descending with the typewriter. 
NORMA'S VOICE Joe! ...Joe! 
There is the SOUND OF A SHOT.  The glass of the front door is shattered.  Gillis at the door opens it and walks out, without looking back. 
Down the staircase rushes Norma.  a disordered wild- ness in the way she moves. 
NORMA You're not leaving me! 
She hurries after Gillis. 
E-41    PATIO (NIGHT) 
Dark except for lights from the house and the luminousness of the lit pool. 
Gillis is crossing the patio towards the garage.  He is carrying the typewriter.  He doesn't accelerate his step, although he has heard the shot.  Behind him Norma comes from the lighted house. 
NORMA You're not leaving me! 
She shoots twice in rapid succession.  Gillis drops the typewriter.  The shots have swung him around.  He is now facing Norma.  She shoots him.  This shot hits him in the belly.  He doubles up, instinctively backs away from her, plummets into the lit pool. 
Up the stone steps from the garage rushes Max. He sees the situation, hurries towards Norma, who stands exultant in the strange light from the pool. 
NORMA Stars are ageless, aren't they? 
DISSOLVE TO: 
E-42    THE PATIO 
Dawn is breaking.  At the edge of the pool stand policemen, detectives and police photographers. Motorcycle policemen are holding off the mob which is trying to storm the house. 
A lietuenant from the Homicide Bureau leaves the crowd around the pool and goes into 
E-43    THE LOWER HALL, DESMOND HOUSE 
It is filled with a pandemonium of police officers, newspaper people, etc.  who are kept from the upper floor by two policemen at the head of the stairs. The lieutenant from the Homicide Bureau goes through the crowd to the telephone at the foot of the stairs, picks up the phone and dials. 
LIEUTENANT Coroner's office? ... I want to speak to the Coroner ... Who's on this phone? 
E-44    THE WHITE TELEPHONE IN NORMA'S BEDROOM 
Standing talking into it is Hedda Hopper. 
MISS HOPPER I am! Now get off, this is more important ... Times City Desk? Hedda Hopper speaking.  I'm talking from the bedroom of Norma Desmond. Don't bother with a rewrite man, take this direct.  Ready? -- As day breaks over the murder house, Norma Desmond, famed star of yesteryear, is in a state of complete mental shock ... 
THE CAMERA PANS TO ANOTHER PART OF THE BEDROOM, where Norma sits at a mirror, staring at herself blankly. Firing questions at her are the Captain of the Holmby Hills Division and the L.A.  Homicide Squad.  Max stands by faithfully. 
HOLMBY HILLS CAPTAIN You do not deny having killed this man, Miss Desmond? 
HEAD OF HOMICIDE Did you intend to kill him? Just answer me that. 
HOLMBY HILLS CAPTAIN Was it a sudden quarrel?  Had there been any trouble between you before? 
HEAD OF HOMICIDE If it was a quarrel, how come you had the gun right there? 
