SWEENEY TODD: THE DEMON BARBER OF FLEET STREET 
Written by 
John Logan 
Music and Lyrics by 
Stephen Sondheim 
Adapted from the Stage Musical "Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" 
Music and Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim Book by Hugh Wheeler 
Based on a version of "Sweeney Todd" by Christopher Bond 
18th DECEMBER, 2006 PAGE 1. 
1   INT. DARK CHAMBER -- NIGHT                                     1 
Foreboding organ music is heard... 
We are looking down at a rough brick floor ... is it an alley? ... a cobblestone street? ... a warehouse? a factory? ... we're not sure... 
The flickering glow of flame is the only illumination... 
The ominous organ music continues as... 
From the bottom of the frame... 
A dark pool of blood slowly begins to spread ... moving up the frame, defying gravity ... the flickering flame reflected in the blood... 
Finally, the pool of blood fills the entire frame. 
SUDDENLY-- 
A shrill factory whistle blows-- 
ENORMOUSLY LOUD -- blood-chilling and spine-shattering -- the whistle is a bizarre combination of sound: a factory whistle; a hog being slaughtered; a dog snarling; a roaring inferno; a human scream-- 
And a man's face appears, upside down, reflected in the pool of blood. 
He is THE GENTLEMAN, a slender dandy in pearl grey gloves and matching waistcoat. A cold and superior aristocrat. 
The camera slowly revolves -- the Gentleman becoming right side up as-- 
GENTLEMAN Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd. His skin was pale and his eye was odd. He shaved the faces of gentlemen Who never thereafter were heard of again. He trod a path that few have trod, Did Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
We cut from the blood to see the Gentleman standing before us. Strangely impassive. 
We are in an eerie dark chamber, unclear, a low ceiling, a world of silhouettes and shadows. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 2. 1   CONTINUED:                                                     1 
Another figure emerges from the miasma of shadows, into the hellish flickering of flame: THE BANKER. He is large, rotund and sleek. Impressive muttonchops. 
BANKER He kept a shop in London town, Of fancy clients and good renown, And what if none of their souls were saved? They went to their maker impeccably shaved... 
More FIGURES begin to emerge from the shadows, joining the Gentleman and the Banker as... 
BANKER By Sweeney, By Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
Although prosaic in appearance these figures are, in fact, GHOSTS. 
GHOSTS Swing your razor wide, Sweeney! Hold it to the skies! Freely flows the blood of those Who moralize! 
As they continue, the new figures become more distinct... 
THE GENERAL, a tough, leather-skinned military man in a crimson imperial uniform... 
GENERAL His needs were few, his room was bare: 
THE PRIEST, a lean, severe man with pale skin in clerical attire... 
PRIEST A lavabo and a fancy chair... 
THE TOURIST, a small, meek man with glasses in an ill-fitting suit... 
TOURIST A mug of suds and a leather strop, An apron, a towel, a pail and a mop... 
THE STUDENT, a dashing young man from Oxford with luxurious long hair... 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 3. 1   CONTINUED: (2)                                               1 
STUDENT For neatness he deserves a nod, Does Sweeney Todd... 
GENTLEMAN The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
4   EXT. FLOWER MARKET -- FLASHBACK -- DAY                         4 
...Fifteen years before. 
Todd walks with his beautiful wife LUCY through a crowded flower market, a colorful explosion of blossoms. Lucy carries their one-year-old baby, JOHANNA. 
Todd is almost unrecognizable to us, content and smiling. Chatting with his wife. Happy. 
TODD (V.O.) There was another man who saw That she was beautiful, A pious vulture of the law, Who with a gesture of his claw Removed the barber from his plate. Then there was nothing but to wait And she would fall, So soft, So young, So lost, And oh, so beautiful! 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 7. 4   CONTINUED:                                                    4 
During the above, JUDGE TURPIN, an elderly man with a saturnine demeanor, eyes Lucy through the luxurious bunches of flowers. He stalks her, desiring her. 
With the Judge is his nefarious creature, BEADLE BAMFORD. The Beadle is a large man, his florid nature and pink, powdered face never quite disguising his lethality. 
The Judge whispers to the Beadle, indicating Todd. Then the Beadle and several policemen sweep in and drag Todd off. The Judge moves in on Lucy like a predator. 
And we return to... 
5   EXT. DOCKS -- DAWN                                             5 
Music continues. 
ANTHONY And the lady, sir ... did she succumb? 
TODD Oh, that was many years ago... I doubt if anyone would know. 
A quiet beat. 
TODD I owe you my life, Anthony. If you hadn't spotted me, I would be lost on the ocean still ... Thank you. 
Todd picks up his duffel bag, preparing to go. 
ANTHONY Will I see you again? TODD You might find me, if you like, around Fleet Street. 
ANTHONY Until then, my friend. 
He offers his hand. Todd takes it and shakes. 
Then Todd quickly turns and goes. 
Anthony stands for a moment, saddened by the mysterious pall that hangs over his friend. PAGE 8. 
6   EXT. STREET -- MORNING                                         6 
Todd strides along, deep in thought. The emotions roiling within him finally seethe out in a dark mutter: 
TODD There's a hole in the world Like a great black pit And it's filled with people Who are filled with shit And the vermin of the world Inhabit it... 
He disappears down the street as the music THUNDERS-- 
7   EXT. LONDON ASSAULT -- DAY                                     7 
--We ZOOM ahead of Todd -- cutting through the city at lightning pace down twisting alleys and up crowded boulevards -- into tunnels and over bridges -- slashing through London at breakneck speed -- the insane explosion of music sending us hurtling to-- 
8   EXT. THE PIE SHOP -- DAY                                       8 
Fleet Street. 
We see the exterior of Mrs. Lovett's pie shop. It is tatty and unloved by all. Yet it has a strange, ghostly presence to it. Imposing and dead at the same time. 
There is an exterior staircase leading up to a darkened second floor room with a window overlooking the street. 
The music slows and continues as we see Todd, standing in front of the shop, considering it deeply. The GENERAL we saw before passes, glancing at Todd. Here and then gone. 
Todd finally strides to the shop and enters... 
9   INT. PIE SHOP -- DAY                                           9 
Behind the dusty counter is... 
MRS. LOVETT, a venal, vigorous and slatternly woman in her 40's. 
She is currently busy chopping a loathsome mess of suet with a wicked looking knife, her greasy hair hanging down over her face. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 9. 9   CONTINUED:                                                    9 
The moment Todd enters -- and the bell at the door sounds -- her head snaps up and her eyes are on him like a bird of prey: 
MRS. LOVETT A customer! 
Todd is startled, starts to go-- 
MRS. LOVETT Wait! What's yer rush? What's yer hurry? (She sticks the knife into the counter) You gave me such a-- (Wipes her hands on her apron) ) Fright. I thought you was a ghost. Half a minute, can'tcher? Sit! Sit ye down! (An order) Sit! (He obeys) All I meant is that I Haven't seen a customer for weeks. Did you come here for a pie, sir? (Todd nods. She flicks a bit of dust off a pie with a rag) Do forgive me if me head's a little vague-- Ugh! (She plucks something off the pie, examines it) What is that? But you'd think we had the plague-- (She drops it on the floor and stamps on it) From the way that people-- (She flicks something off the pie with her finger) Keep avoiding-- (Spotting it moving) No, you don't! (She smacks it with her hand) Heaven knows I try, sir! (Lifts her hand, looks at it) Tsk! (She wipes it on the edge of the counter) But there's no one comes in even to inhale-- 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 10. 9   CONTINUED: (2)                                                9 
She continues singing, the strange anguish and yearning of her words seem intended only for him... 
JOHANNA My cage has many rooms, Damask and dark. Nothing there sings, Not even my lark. Larks never will, you know, When they're captive. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 21. 17   CONTINUED:                                                     17 
Teach me to be more adaptive. 
Green finch and linnet bird, Nightingale, blackbird, Teach me how to sing. If I cannot fly, Let me sing. 
Then she turns away quickly, alarmed, when someone enters her room. She looks terrified. 
Below, Anthony is concerned for her. He sees her move from the window. 
He is craning to see better when a BEGGAR WOMAN -- a filthy tendril of a woman, her foul clothes of rags like a second skin -- suddenly thrusts her arm up from the curb, imploring: 
BEGGAR WOMAN Alms! ... Alms! ... For a miserable woman On a miserable chilly morning... (Anthony drops a coin into her hand) Thank yer, sir, thank yer. 
ANTHONY Ma'am, could tell me whose house this is? 
BEGGAR WOMAN That's the great Judge Turpin's house that is. 
ANTHONY And the young lady who resides there? BEGGAR WOMAN That's Johanna, his pretty little ward. Keeps her snug, he does, all locked up ... So don't you go trespassing there or it's a good whipping for you -- or any other young man with mischief on his mind... 
She suddenly leers into a lewd and demented assault: 
BEGGAR WOMAN 'Ow would you like a little muff, dear, A little jig jig A little bounce around the bush? Wouldn't you like to push me parsley? 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 22. 17   CONTINUED: (2)                                               17 
It looks to me, dear, Like you got plenty there to push. 
She grabs at Anthony's crotch -- Anthony starts back -- she turns away, instantly plaintive again, and appeals to other pedestrians as she goes: 
BEGGAR WOMAN Alms! ... Alms!... For a desperate woman... 
Anthony considers the mansion. He sees a figure standing at a window, unclear behind the shutters, watching him. 
He sits on a bench outside the mansion and sings quietly: 
ANTHONY I feel you, Johanna, I feel you. I was half convinced I'd waken, Satisfied enough to dream you. Happily I was mistaken, Johanna! I'll steal you, Johanna, I'll steal you... 
Then the figure disappears from the window above. Anthony stands, waits. Then the doors to the mansion swing open... 
Anthony is expecting Johanna... 
But it is Judge Turpin, the predator we met in Todd's flashback, who steps into the doorway. 
He seems a different man now. Paternal and warm, he smiles and beckons to Anthony. 
Anthony hesitates, unsure. The Judge beckons again. Again the warm smile. 
JUDGE Come in, lad. Come in... 
Anthony goes into the mansion. 
18   INT. TURPIN'S MANSION -- LIBRARY -- DAY                       18 
Judge Turpin leads Anthony into the dark library, filled with books. Anthony is looking around for Johanna. He is wary, this is all very strange. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 23. 18   CONTINUED:                                                    18 
JUDGE ... you were looking for Hyde Park, you say? 
ANTHONY Yes, it's terribly large on the map but I keep getting lost... 
JUDGE Sit down, lad, sit down. 
Anthony sits, uncomfortable, as the Judge pours two snifters of brandy. 
ANTHONY It's embarrassing for a sailor to lose his bearings, but, well, there you are. 
Then... 
The large form of the Beadle appears from the shadows. No introduction is made. Anthony glances to him, uneasy. 
JUDGE A sailor, eh? 
ANTHONY Yes, sir. The "Bountiful" out of Plymouth. 
JUDGE (handing him a snifter of brandy) A sailor must know the ways of the world, yes? ... Must be practiced in the ways of the world ... Would you say you are practiced, boy? 
ANTHONY Sir? 
The Judge moves to consider some beautiful volumes, bound in the richest leather. He runs a finger along the spines of the books; his large library of pornography. 
JUDGE Oh, yes ... such practices ... the geishas of Japan ... the concubines of Siam .. the catamites of Greece ... the harlots of India ... I have them all here ... Drawings of them .... (MORE) 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 27. 22   CONTINUED:                                                   22 
MRS. LOVETT (seeing the Beadle, pulling his arm) Come along now, dear, he might recognize you-- 
TODD I will do what I have vowed to do ... (he continues to glare at the Beadle, his voice low) ... Come closer, my friend, closer... 
Then, TOBY -- a 13-year-old boy, a bit small for his age, malnourished and consumptively pale -- emerges from Pirelli's caravan. He bangs on a tin drum, drawing customers. 
A crowd begins to gather at the caravan as: 
TOBY Ladies and gentlemen! May I have your attention, perlease? Do you wake every morning in shame and despair To discover your pillow is covered with hair Wot ought not to be there? Well, ladies and gentlemen, From now on you can waken at ease. You need never again have a worry or care, I will show you a miracle marvelous rare, Gentlemen, you are about to see something wot rose from the dead! (A woman gasps, he smiles and wiggles a finger no) On the top of my head. 
He dramatically doffs his cap, revealing mountains of hair which cascade to his shoulder. 
TOBY 'Twas Pirelli's Miracle Elixir, That's wot did the trick, sir, True, sir, true. Was it quick, sir? Did it in a tick, sir? Just like an elixir Ought to do! (To a Bald Man) How about a bottle, mister? Only costs a penny, guaranteed. (Pours a drop on the bald man's head) Does Pirelli's 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 28. 22   CONTINUED: (2)                                               22 
Stimulate the growth, sir? You can have my oath, sir, 'Tis unique. (Applies the bald man's hand to the wet spot) Rub a minute, Stimulatin', i'n it? Soon you'll have to thin it Once a week! 
More customers are stepping up and buying bottles. 
Todd opens a bottle of the Elixir, takes a whiff. Disgusting. He smiles to Mrs. Lovett, his plan falling into place. 
TODD (loudly, to Mrs. Lovett) Pardon me, ma'am, what's that awful stench? 
MRS. LOVETT Are we standing near an open trench? 
TODD (to a woman in the crowd) Must be standing near an open trench! 
The crowd responds to Todd and Mrs. Lovett, looking askance and sniffing at the bottles. Toby nervously tries to distract them: 
TOBY Buy Pirelli's Miracle Elixir: Anything wot's slick, sir, Soon sprouts curls. Try Pirelli's! When they see how thick, sir, You can have your pick, sir, Of the girls! 
Want to buy a bottle, missus? 
TODD (sniffing bottle of Elixir) What is this? 
MRS. LOVETT (sniffing another customer's bottle) What is this? 
TODD Smells like piss. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 29. 22   CONTINUED: (3)                                              22 
MRS. LOVETT Smells like -- phew! 
TODD This is piss. Piss with ink. 
The music speeds up -- Toby is getting desperate: 
TOBY Let Pirelli's Activate your roots, sir-- 
TODD Keep it off your boots, sir-- Eats right through. 
TOBY Yes, get Pirelli's! Use a bottle of it! Ladies seem to love it-- 
MRS. LOVETT Flies do too! 
Suddenly, the curtains on the caravan are dramatically flung wide to reveal-- 
PIRELLI, a flamboyant Italian with a velvet suit, thick wavy hair and a dazzling smile. Pirelli poses splendidly for a moment. Then: 
PIRELLI I am Adolfo Pirelli, Da king of da barbers, da barber of kings, E buon giorno, good day, I blow you a kiss! (he does so) And I, da so-famous Pirelli, I wish-a to know-a Who has-a da nerve-a to say My elixir is piss! Who says this?! 
TODD I do. (Todd moves forward boldly.) I am Mr. Sweeney Todd of Fleet Street. I have opened a bottle of Pirelli's elixir, and I say to you that it is nothing but an arrant fraud, concocted from piss and ink. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 30. 22   CONTINUED: (4)                                              22 
The crowd gasps. Pirelli is about to respond, outraged, but Todd continues-- 
TODD And furthermore --   "signor" -- I have serviced no kings,   yet I wager I can shave a cheek with   ten times more dexterity that any   street mountebank. 
He snaps open his razor case and holds it up for the crowd to see, turning to display the wondrous razors: 
TODD You see these razors? 
MRS. LOVETT (to the crowd) The finest in England. 
TODD (glaring at Pirelli) I lay them against five pounds you are no match for me. You hear me, sir? Either accept my challenge or reveal yourself as a sham. 
MRS. LOVETT Bravo, bravo. 
The crowd is enjoying this now, whispering eagerly about the bold challenge. In the crowd, we see a quick flash of the meek TOURIST we saw earlier. 
Pirelli studies the razors for a moment and then turns to the crowd with a confident smile: PIRELLI You hear zis foolish man? Watch and see how he will regret his folly! 
Music begins as Todd moves into action, preparing the challenge: 
ANTHONY Thank you, ma'am ... (to Todd) ... Mr. Todd? 
A beat. 
TODD The girl may come. 
ANTHONY (taking his hand) Thank you, my friend. He goes. 
MRS. LOVETT Seems like the fates are favoring you at last, Mr. T. (Todd grunts, unhappy) What is it, love? You'll have her back before the day is out. 
TODD For a few hours? Before he carries her off to the other end of England? 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 41. 27   CONTINUED: (4)                                               27 
MRS. LOVETT Oh, him? Let him bring her here and then, since you're so hot for a little (makes a throat-cutting gesture) -- that's the throat to slit, dear. 
Todd moves again to his post at the window, he stares out, deep in thought. 
Meanwhile, she happily moves around the shop, straightening things up and trying to make it all a bit more cozy: 
MRS. LOVETT Poor little Johanna. All those years without a scrap of motherly affection. Well, we'll soon see to that... 
TODD (alert, sees something) What's this? 
Mrs. Lovett joins him at the window. Below, they see Pirelli approaching with Toby in tow. 
MRS. LOVETT Look at that face, he's up to mischief. 
TODD Go -- keep the boy below with you. 
She nods and scurries out. We go with her... 
28   EXT. PIE SHOP -- DAY                                          28 ... Mrs. Lovett quickly moves down the steps outside the barber shop to greet Pirelli and Toby as they are about to ascend. 
We see a new sign on the stairs: "Sweeney Todd's Tonsorial Parlor." 
PIRELLI Signora, is Mr. Todd at home? 
MRS. LOVETT Plying his trade upstairs, don'tcher know ... (she stands on the staircase, blocking their way, looking at Toby) (MORE) (CONTINUED) PAGE 42. 28   CONTINUED:                                                    28 MRS. LOVETT (cont'd) ... Would you look at it, now! Don't look like it's had a kind word since half past never! 
TOBY Ma'am...? 
MRS. LOVETT (to Pirelli) You wouldn't mind if I gave him a nice juicy meat pie, would yer? 
PIRELLI (impatient) Yes, yes, whatever you like. 
Pirelli climbs the stairs, as she takes Toby by the hand and leads him toward the pie shop door: 
MRS. LOVETT Come with me now. Your teeth is strong, I hope? 
They go into the pie shop. 
29   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DAY                                        29 
Todd is standing, arms folded. Waiting. Pirelli enters. 
PIRELLI Mr. Todd. 
TODD Signor Pirelli. 
PIRELLI (reverting to his natural Irish) Call me Danny. Daniel Higgins' the name when it's not professional ... I'd like me five quid back, if'n ya don't mind. 
TODD Why? 
PIRELLI Because you entered into our little wager on false pretenses, me friend ... And so you might remember to be more forthright in the future, you'll be handing over half your profits to me, share and share alike... 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 43. 29   CONTINUED:                                                    29 
Todd shakes his head, amused, and begins to turn away when Pirelli says: 
PIRELLI ... Mr. Benjamin Barker. 
Todd freezes. 
30   INT. PIE SHOP -- DAY                                           30 
Mrs. Lovett hands Toby one of her grisly pies, he devours eagerly. 
MRS. LOVETT That's my boy, tuck in. 
But her attention is almost entirely on the roof above ... the muffled voices .... the sound of shoes walking... 
Her eyes keep darting up as she chatters distractedly with Toby: 
MRS. LOVETT Like to see a man with a healthy appetite. Reminds me of my dear Albert, like to gorge himself to bloatation, he did. He didn't have your nice full head though-- 
TOBY To tell the truth -- (he pulls off the wig which covers his own short-cropped hair) -- it gets awful hot. 31   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DAY                                        31 
Then he goes to the trunk, leans down to open it, the camera follows him down and up again, when he rises-- The GENTLEMAN is standing right behind him! 
Todd turns. 
The Gentleman's face is completely impassive. He is not spectral. He does not disappear. He just stands there. 
Todd looks at him. 
Then the Gentleman's eyes slowly move to a counter... 
Todd follows his look to see... 
His largest razor. 
A long beat as Todd looks at the razor. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 47. 34   CONTINUED: (2)                                               34 
The point of no return. 
Todd strides to the razor and he snaps it open with a sharp, quick flick of his wrist-- 
Then he moves to the chest and-- 
With great ferocity he hauls Pirelli up-- 
Pirelli's eyes snap open-- 
And Todd SLASHES his throat-- 
The piercing factory whistle SCREAMS-- 
Todd remains standing over Pirelli as the painful whistle echoes into music... 
We see that the Gentleman is still standing there, watching Todd... 
GENTLEMAN His hands were quick, his fingers strong. It stung a little but not for long. 
The dashing Oxford Student is now leaning against a wall, arms folded, looking at Todd... 
STUDENT And those who thought him a simple clod Were soon reconsidering under the sod... 
The Tourist stands by the window... 
TOURIST Consigned there with a friendly prod From Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
GENTLEMAN, STUDENT AND TOURIST See your razor gleam, Sweeney, Feel how well it fits As it floats across the throats Of hypocrites. 
The last word echoes to silence as we cut to: 
A high-angle shot of the room. 
The ghosts are gone. 
Todd stands alone over Pirelli's body. Blood dripping from his razor. Drip. Drip. Drip. PAGE 48. 
35   INT. OLD BAILEY -- DAY                                        35 
Judge Turpin lurks over the proceedings. 
He sits, the personification of power, very high at the bench. He glares down a wasted wretch of a BOY. The Beadle stands next to the boy. 
JUDGE This is the second time, sir, that you have been brought before this bench. Though it is my earnest wish to ever temper justice with mercy, your persistent dedication to a life of crime is an abomination before God and man. 
He places a black cloth on his head: 
JUDGE I therefore sentence you to hang by the neck until you are dead and may the Lord have mercy on your soul. 
The wretched boy collapses in sobs. The Beadle is pleased with the verdict. 
The Judge removes the black cloth and tosses it casually on his desk: 
JUDGE This court is adjourned. 
36   EXT. -- STREET -- OUTSIDE THE OLD BAILEY -- DAY               36 
The Judge and the Beadle walk away from the impressive edifices of the Old Bailey. 
BEADLE Thank you, your Honor. Just the sentence we wanted. 
JUDGE Was he guilty? 
BEADLE Well, if he didn't do it, he's surely done something to warrant a hanging. 
JUDGE (quietly) What man has not? 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 49. 36   CONTINUED:                                                     36 
Todd suddenly gasps -- a great, shocking intake of breath as his whole body tenses like iron-- 
Mrs. Lovett spins to him-- 
TODD The Judge. 
Mrs. Lovett hurries to the window-- Below, they can see the Judge and the Beadle approaching. They see them exchanging a few words and then the Beadle moves off as the Judge approaches the shop-- 
Todd whispers, his eyes blazing: 
TODD Justice ... Justice. 
Mrs. Lovett gives him a quick kiss and then very quickly leaves. A beat as Todd prepares himself. 
He turns from the window and looks around the shop, shifting nervously. Now that his great moment of revenge is at hand, he doesn't quite know what to do with himself. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 53. 38   CONTINUED: (3)                                               38 
He snatches up his large razor, coils by the door, ready to attack. No. He wants to savor this. He quickly moves and puts the razor down. 
Finally he just stands. All his demons settling into a bizarre sort of calm. 
He hears the Judge's footsteps approaching on the stairs. Then the Judge enters. 
JUDGE Mr. Todd? 
Todd slowly turns: 
TODD At your service ... An honor to receive your patronage, my lord. 
JUDGE You know me, sir? 
TODD (a polite bow) Who in this wide world is not familiar with the honored Judge Turpin? 
The Judge grunts and glances around the shop: 
JUDGE These premises are hardly prepossessing and yet the Beadle tells me you are the most accomplished of all the barbers in the city. 
TODD That is gracious of him, sir ... (indicates for the Judge to sit) ... Sit, if you please, sir. Sit. 
The Judge settles into the parlor chair as music begins... 
TODD And what may I do for you today, sir? A stylish trimming of the hair? A soothing skin massage? 
JUDGE You see, sir, a man infatuate with love, Her ardent and eager slave. So fetch the pomade and pumice stone And lend me a more seductive tone, 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 54. 38   CONTINUED: (4)                                              38 
A sprinkling perhaps of French cologne, But first, sir, I think -- a shave. 
TODD The closest I ever gave. 
He whips a sheet over the Judge, then tucks the bib in. The Judge hums, flicking imaginary dust off the sheet; Todd whistles gaily. 
JUDGE You're in a merry mood today, Mr. Todd. 
TODD (mixing lather) 'Tis your delight, sir, catching fire From one man to the next. 
JUDGE 'Tis true, sir, love can still inspire The blood to pound, the heart leap higher. 
BOTH What more, what more can man require-- 
JUDGE Than love, sir? 
TODD More than love, sir. 
JUDGE What, sir? 
TODD Women. 
JUDGE Ah yes, women. 
TODD Pretty women. 
The Judge hums jauntily, Todd whistles and starts stropping his razor rhythmically. He then lathers the Judge's face. 
Still whistling, Todd stands back to survey the Judge, who is now totally relaxed, eyes closed. 
Todd goes to his razor and picks it up, sings to it gently: 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 55. 38   CONTINUED: (5)                                            38 
TODD Now then, my friend. Now to your purpose. Patience, enjoy it. Revenge can't be taken in haste. 
JUDGE (opening his eyes) Make haste, and if we wed, You'll be commended, sir. 
TODD My lord... (Goes to him) And who, may it be said, Is your intended, sir? 
He spins with venom to Todd: 
JUDGE And as for you, barber, it is all too clear what company you keep. Service them well and hold their custom -- for you'll have none of mine. 
He strides out. 
Todd stands, frozen. 
ANTHONY Mr. Todd -- you have to help me -- I've talked to Johanna and--! 
Todd suddenly turns on him with a ferocious ROAR: 
TODD OUT! OUT, I SAY! 
Utterly stunned at his friend's ferocity, Anthony backs away, leaves the shop. 
Music begins, very agitated, as Todd stands motionless. 
In shock. 
His mind cracking apart. Mrs. Lovett hurries in: 
MRS. LOVETT All this shouting and running about, what's happened--? 
TODD I had him -- and then-- 
MRS. LOVETT The sailor busted in, I know, I saw them both running down the street and I said-- 
Todd interrupts wildly: 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 59. 38   CONTINUED: (9)                                              38 
TODD I had him! His throat was bare Beneath my hand--! 
MRS. LOVETT There, there, dear. Don't fret-- 
TODD (spins on her violently) No, I had him! His throat was there, And he'll never come again! 
MRS. LOVETT Easy now. Hush, love, hush. I keep telling you-- 
TODD When?! 
MRS. LOVETT What's your rush? 
TODD Why did I wait? You told me to wait! Now he'll never come again... 
The music becomes ferocious as Todd's wrenching insanity, always close to the surface, finally explodes: 
TODD There's a hole in the world Like a great black pit And it's filled with people Who are filled with shit And the vermin of the world Inhabit it-- But not for long! 
He suddenly looks to Mrs. Lovett -- she starts back -- alarmed by the pure madness in his eyes-- 
TODD They all deserve to die! Tell you why, Mrs. Lovett, Tell you why: Because in all of the whole human race, Mrs. Lovett There are two kinds of men and only two. There's the one staying put In his proper place 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 60. 38   CONTINUED: (10)                                           38 
And the one with his foot In the other one's face-- Look at me, Mrs. Lovett, Look at you-- 
He suddenly lurches and grabs Mrs. Lovett tightly-- 
TODD No, we all deserve to die! Even you, Mrs. Lovett, Even I. Because the lives of the wicked should be-- (slashes at the air violently) Made brief. For the rest of us, death Will be a relief-- We all deserve to die! 
He clutches her to him very tightly as he suddenly keens, a howl of pure agony: 
TODD And I'll never see Johanna, No, I'll never hug my girl to me-- 
He hurls Mrs. Lovett away from him-- 
TODD Finished! 
We suddenly slash to-- 
39   EXT. STREET -- DAY                                            39 
--In Todd's mind. We are moving with him as he stalks relentlessly, holding his razor, striding down a busy street like a tiger. 
The many pedestrians he passes don't even notice him. He is invisible to them, a wolf among the sheep, as he beckons-- 
TODD All right! You, sir, How about a shave? Come and visit Your good friend, Sweeney--! PAGE 61. 
40   EXT. ANOTHER STREET -- DAY                                 40 
Todd continues to stride, beckoning to another man: 
TODD You, sir, too, sir-- Welcome to the grave! I will have vengeance, I will have salvation! 
41   EXT. ANOTHER STREET -- DAY                                 41 
TODD Ah! 
MRS. LOVETT Good, you got it. (She warms to the idea) Take, for instance, Mrs. Mooney and her pie shop. Business never better, using only Pussycats and toast. And a pussy's good for maybe six or Seven at the most. And I'm sure they can't compare As far as taste-- 
TODD Mrs. Lovett, What a charming notion, 
The music builds as they sing simultaneously: 
TODD Eminently practical and yet Appropriate as always. Mrs. Lovett, how I've lived without you All these years I'll never know! How delectable! Also undetectable. 
How choice! How rare! 
MRS. LOVETT Well, it does seem a Waste... It's an idea... Think about it... Lots of other gentlemen'll Soon be coming for a shave, 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 65. 48   CONTINUED: (2)                                            48 
Won't they? Think of All them Pies! 
A triumphant waltz theme begins: 
TODD For what's the sound of the world out there? 
MRS. LOVETT What, Mr. Todd, What, Mr. Todd, What is that sound? 
TODD Those crunching noises pervading the air? 
MRS. LOVETT Yes, Mr. Todd, Yes, Mr. Todd, Yes, all around-- 
TODD It's man devouring man, my dear, 
They sing simultaneously: 
TODD And who are we To deny it in here? 
MRS. LOVETT Then who are we To deny it in here? Music continues under: 
TODD Ah, these are desperate times, Mrs. Lovett, and desperate measures are called for. 
She goes to the counter and comes back with an imaginary pie: 
MRS. LOVETT Here we are now, hot out of the oven... 
She holds the imaginary pie out to him with a sly and wicked smile. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 66. 48   CONTINUED: (3)                                               48 
TODD What is that? 
MRS. LOVETT It's priest. Have a little priest. 
TODD Is it really good? 
MRS. LOVETT Sir, it's too good, At least. Then again, they don't commit sins of the flesh, So it's pretty fresh. 
TODD (looking at it) Awful lot of fat. 
MRS. LOVETT Only where it sat. 
TODD Haven't you got poet Or something like that? 
MRS. LOVETT No, you see the trouble with poet Is, how do you know it's Deceased? Try the priest. 
TODD ("tasting" it) Mmm. Heavenly. 
MRS. LOVETT Not as hearty as bishop, perhaps, but not as bland as curate, either. 
Mrs. Lovett presents another imaginary pie: 
MRS. LOVETT Lawyer's rather nice. 
TODD If it's for a price. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 67. 48   CONTINUED: (4)                                               48 
MRS. LOVETT Order something else, though, to follow, Since no one should swallow It twice. 
TODD Anything that's lean. 
MRS. LOVETT Well, then, if you're British and loyal, You might enjoy Royal Marine. Anyway, it's clean. Though, of course, it tastes of wherever it's been. 
TODD (looking past her to imaginary oven) Is that squire On the fire? 
MRS. LOVETT Mercy no, sir, Look closer, You'll notice it's grocer. 
TODD Looks thicker. More like vicar. 
MRS. LOVETT No, it has to be grocer -- it's green. 
He moves toward her. She stands her ground. 
JOHANNA Sir ... I will leave this place. 
JUDGE I think that only appropriate. Since you no longer find my company to your liking, madam, we shall provide you with new lodgings. 
He stands very close to her. Still she holds her ground. 
JUDGE Until this moment I have spared the rod ... And the ungrateful child has broken my heart. Now you will learn discipline... 
The large form of the Beadle fills the doorway. She glances to him, disquieted. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 71. 49   CONTINUED:                                                    49 
JUDGE When you have learned to appreciate what you have, perhaps we shall meet again. Until then ... Think on your sins. 
He nods to the Beadle -- the Beadle surges forward and grabs Johanna brutally-- 
She screams and fights like a tiger -- to no avail-- 
The Beadle covers her mouth with one of his huge hands and hauls her out-- 
50   EXT. TURPIN'S MANSION -- EVENING                               50 
Anthony is racing toward the front of mansion when he sees-- 
A hansom cab is just pulling away -- Johanna's terrified face looking at him through the window-- 
ANTHONY JOHANNA! 
Anthony sees the Beadle pulling her away from the window as the carriage clatters off-- 
Judge Turpin stands on the steps of the mansion -- Anthony goes to him in a murderous rage: 
ANTHONY Where are you taking her?! Tell me or I swear by God--! 
The Judge spins and roars -- a hellish howl that echoes-- JUDGE WOULD YOU KILL ME, BOY?! HERE I STAND! 
Anthony's eyes burn into the Judge -- but he is no killer. 
He turns and races after the hansom cab. It rounds a corner and is gone. 
The Judge watches as Anthony pursues the cab, disappearing around the corner. 
And we fade to... 
51   EXT. FLEET STREET -- DAY                                       51 
...The face of the Beggar Woman. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 72. 51   CONTINUED:                                                    51 
She sits, crouched on her haunches, peering up from under her few greasy locks of hair. 
She is watching something intently. A few pedestrians move quickly down the sidewalk past her, excited. They chatter back and forth eagerly... 
The Beggar Woman uncoils and follows... 
And we finally see what the Beggar Woman has been watching so intently... 
52   EXT. PIE SHOP -- DAY                                          52 
Mrs. Lovett's wretched establishment has been transformed! 
She has created a modest outdoor eating garden with tables, surrounded by glowing Chinese lanterns. A fresh coat of paint, a few bushes in pots and birds in cages add to the feeling of upward mobility. 
A new sign hangs proudly over the entrance to the pie shop: "MRS. LOVETT'S WORLD FAMOUS MEAT PIES!" And then in smaller letters: "LIKE MOTHER USED TO MAKE." 
The eating garden is already crowded, the benches at the tables are filled and other customers stand and mill about. 
All eating, eating, eating... 
...The most delicious looking meat pies you could ever imagine. Crispy crust. Thick, luxurious gravy. Tart and tangy meat. 
The customers take great, hungry mouthfuls; the steaming gravy oozing down greedy faces. Chomp. Chomp. Chomp. 
The Beggar Women stands across the street, ravenously hungry. She finally gets the nerve to approach when-- 
Toby -- wearing a spiffy new outfit with apron -- bursts from the shop and circulates through the customers: 
TOBY Ladies and gentlemen, May I have your attention, perlease? Are your nostrils aquiver and tingling as well At that delicate, luscious ambrosial smell? Yes they are, I can tell... 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 73. 52   CONTINUED:                                                      52 
He moves through the greedily eating customers in the outdoor garden and toward the street as: 
TOBY Well, ladies and gentlemen, That aroma enriching the breeze Is like nothing compared to its succulent source, As the gourmets among you will tell you, of course. 
She hangs up a "Sold Out" sign. 
MRS. LOVETT AND TOBY Come again tomorrow--! 
She spots a man in need of a shave approaching: 
MRS. LOVETT Hold it-- 
CUSTOMERS More hot pies! 
MRS. LOVETT Bless my eyes--! 
She sees the man going up to the barber shop. Todd is still standing at the top of the stairs. He smiles secretly to Mrs. Lovett as he ushers the man in. 
MRS. LOVETT Fresh supplies! 
The man goes into the barber shop as she happily takes down the "Sold Out" sign and turns again to the customers: 
MRS. LOVETT How about it, dearie? (expecting more pies) Be here in a twinkling! Just confirms me theory-- Toby--! God watches over us. Didn't have an inkling... Positively eerie... 
TOBY (simultaneous with above) Is that a pie Fit for a king, A wondrous sweet And most delectable Thing? You see, ma'am, why There is no meat pie-- 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 78. 56   CONTINUED: (2)                                               56 
CUSTOMERS (simultaneous with above) Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! 
Mrs. Lovett then spots the Beggar Woman approaching again, she spins to Toby with truly shocking viciousness: 
MRS. LOVETT Toby! Throw the old woman out! 
Mrs. Lovett watches intently as Toby leads the Beggar Woman away. 
The Customers, meanwhile, are building to a pure frenzy of mastication -- chewing and gulping and snapping at the heavenly pies: 
CUSTOMERS God, that's good that is de have you Licious ever tasted smell such Oh my God what perfect more that's Pies such flavor God, that's good!! 
The music comes to a rousing conclusion as Mrs. Lovett stands at the door to her shop. Triumphant. 
57   INT. BARBER SHOP -- NIGHT                                     57 
Todd is alone. He sits in the barber chair, smoking a pipe. He is holding an old Daguerreotype; creased, stained and bleached-out. 
The image shows his wife, Lucy, smiling and holding Baby Johanna. The child's features are almost completely obscured by a stain on the picture. 
He looks at it deeply. 
Then church bells echo in the distance... 
58   EXT. MAYFAIR -- NIGHT                                         58 
... The church bells continue as we discover Anthony, searching through the streets for Johanna. We see him in long shot as he moves through the contours of the city. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 79. 58   CONTINUED:                                                  58 
He starts his search in a luxurious area of wealth. His journey through the city will take him lower and lower, into the darkest corners of London. 
ANTHONY I feel you, Johanna, I feel you. Do they think that walls can hide you? Even now I'm at your window. I am in the dark beside you, Buried sweetly in your yellow hair, Johanna... 
He continues walking... 
59   INT. BARBER SHOP -- NIGHT                                   59 
...Todd gazes quietly at the Daguerreotype: 
TODD Johanna... 
And are you beautiful and pale, With yellow hair, like her? I'd want you beautiful and pale, The way I've dreamed you were... 
60   EXT. DOCKS -- NIGHT                                         60 
...We see the figure of Anthony, walking along the docks. 
TODD (V.O.) Johanna... 
ANTHONY Johanna... 61   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DAY                                     61 
...Todd shaves a customer. We recognize the customer instantly: it is the GENTLEMAN. 
The Daguerreotype now rest on the counter. 
Todd remains wistful, detached, dream-like. 
TODD And if you're beautiful, what then, With yellow hair, like wheat? I think we shall not meet again-- (He quietly slits the Gentleman's throat) My little dove, my sweet... PAGE 80. 
62   EXT. SPITALFIELDS MARKET -- DAY                               62 
...We see the figure of Anthony, walking past hanging carcasses of the busy meat market. 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Don't you love the weather By the sea? We'll grow old together By the seaside, (Beckons to Todd to join them) Hoo! Hoo! By the beautiful sea! 
Music continues as Todd joins them. He kneels with Toby to help him work on the sandcastle. Mrs. Lovett stands, watching them, the picture of the doting mother. 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) It'll be so quiet That who'll come by it Except a seagull? Hoo! Hoo! We shouldn't try it, 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 90. 90   CONTINUED:                                                   90 
Though, till it's legal, For two-hoo! 
91   INT. SEASIDE CHAPEL -- DAY                                    91 
Mrs. Lovett and Todd getting married. This being her fantasy, after all, she wears white. Todd is in a constricting morning coat with a rakish top hat. Toby, the best man, watches proudly. 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) But a seaside wedding Could be devised, Me rumpled bedding Legitimized. 
They exchange vows and kiss. 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) My eyelids'll flutter, I'll turn into butter, The moment I mutter "I do-hoo!" 
92   INT. SEASIDE COTTAGE -- MORNING                               92 
Mrs. Lovett is placing a plate of kippers on the table amidst a proper English breakfast. A guest stands, leaning against a wall, waiting to eat. 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) By the sea, in our nest, We could share our kippers With the odd paying guest From the weekend trippers, Have a nice sunny suite For the guest to rest in-- 
A dark shape quickly moves past the guest -- Todd -- then the guest slides down the wall -- a splash of blood on the wallpaper- 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Now and then, you could do the guest in-- 
93   EXT. BEACH -- SUNSET                                          93 
Back at the beach, Mrs. Lovett, Todd and Toby sit comfortably. Watching an unnaturally gorgeous sunset. 
A picture postcard of a happy family. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 91. 93   CONTINUED:                                                    93 
MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) By the sea. Married nice and proper, By the sea-- Bring along your chopper To the seaside, Hoo! Hoo! By the beautiful sea! 
The music concludes as she throws her arms affectionately around her two men. 
We cut back to-- 
94   EXT. HAMPSTEAD HEATH -- DAY                                    94 
--Mrs. Lovett is sitting in the exact same position with Todd. Silence. 
Her smiles fades as she considers him. The grim, brooding reality is so clear next to her lovely dream. 
She watches him in silence as we fade to... 
95   INT. BARBER SHOP -- MORNING                                    95 
Todd is standing at his usual post, the window, gazing intently down at Fleet Street. 
Mrs. Lovett enters with a tray of food: 
MRS. LOVETT Brought you some breakfast, dear, farm fresh eggs and a dollop of lovely clotted cream, only the best for my... She stops when he realizes he isn't even listening to her. Her heart sinks seeing him at the window, wearing his obsession like a cloak. 
A beat as she looks at him. 
MRS. LOVETT Mr. T., might I ask you a question? 
TODD (not turning) Mm? 
MRS. LOVETT What did your Lucy look like? 
He turns to her. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 92. 95   CONTINUED:                                                    95 
MRS. LOVETT You heard me ... (a beat) ... Can't really remember can you? 
TODD She had yellow hair. 
He turns back to the window. 
Mrs. Lovett proceeds with great sincerity: 
MRS. LOVETT You've got to leave all this behind you now. She's gone ... You keep looking down into the grave, you're never gonna look up. And life will just pass right by ... Life is for the alive, my dear. 
He does not answer. 
MRS. LOVETT We could have a life we two ... Maybe not like I dreamed, maybe not like you remember ... But we could get by. 
He does not answer. 
TODD Fetch the boy. 
MRS. LOVETT Don't you think it's time you-- 
TODD Fetch the boy. 
Mrs. Lovett goes... 
96   EXT. PIE SHOP -- MORNING                                      96 
Mrs. Lovett begins going down the stairs outside the barber shop. 
Then she stops. She stands for a long moment, disturbed that Todd's demons are again devouring him. 
She looks down and sees Toby washing the tables in the outdoor garden. Toby is serious about his work, vigorously scrubbing the tables with soap and water. 
She watches him for a moment and then continues down the steps: 
MRS. LOVETT Toby ... Mr. Todd requires you. TOBY Yes'm. 
He goes up the steps. She just stands, deep in thought. 
97   INT. BARBER SHOP -- MORNING                                   97 
Todd is finishing the letter as Toby enters: 
TOBY Mr. T.? 
TODD (still writing) You know where the Old Bailey is? 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 96. 97    CONTINUED:                                                    97 
TOBY Oh, yes, sir. Not that I ever-- 
TODD (interrupts, folding up letter) Take this there and seek out a Judge Turpin. Repeat that. Repeat that. 
TOBY Go to the Old Bailey. Find Judge Turpin. 
TODD (handing him letter) Put this into his hands. Only to him. Do you understand? 
TOBY Yes, sir, and while I'm out do you mind if I stop by the grocer and pick up the-- 
Todd pounces like a panther-- 
He suddenly leaps up and grabs Toby by the throat with shocking brutality-- 
TODD DON'T CHATTER, BOY! You are not to stop! You are not to speak! You are to deliver this letter! DO YOU UNDERSTAND?! 
Toby is stunned and terrified. It is the first time he has seen this side of his friend, Mr. Todd. Todd releases him. Toby races out. 
Todd immediately begins pacing like a caged animal, back and forth, back and forth, whispering to himself neurotically, as day becomes evening... 
101   EXT. PIE SHOP -- EVENING                                      101 
Toby walks back to the pie shop, upset. 
He stops when he sees Todd at the window above, unblinking, gazing like a falcon into the street. 
He continues on to Mrs. Lovett, who is clearing up the remains of a meal in the outdoor garden. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 97. 101   CONTINUED:                                                   101 
MRS. LOVETT Where you been, lad? We had quite the luncheon rush! Me poor bones is ready to drop... (She looks at him, notes his dark expression.) What is it, Toby? 
He sits. She sits next to him. 
TOBY Mr. Todd sent me on an errand ... And on the way back I went by the workhouse. And I was thinkin' ... But for you I would be there now. Or someplace worse. 
A beat. 
TOBY Seems like the Good Lord sent you for me. 
MRS. LOVETT Oh, love, I feel quite the same way-- 
TOBY Hear me out, mum ... You know there's nothing I wouldn't do for you. Say, if there was someone around -- someone bad -- only you didn't know it-- 
MRS. LOVETT (concerned) What is this? What are you talking about? TOBY Nothing's gonna harm you, Not while I'm around. Nothing gonna harm you, No, sir, Not while I'm around... 
MRS. LOVETT What do you mean, "someone bad"? 
TOBY Demons are prowling Everywhere Nowadays. I'll send 'em howling, 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 98. 101   CONTINUED: (2)                                             101 
I don't care-- I got ways. 
MRS. LOVETT Darling, hush now, there's no need for this... 
MRS. LOVETT And here's the grinder ... (demonstrates it) ... You pop in the meat, give it a good grind and it comes out here. 
TOBY (practicing with the grinder) Good grind, comes out there. 
MRS. LOVETT That's my boy. Smoothly, smoothly -- Now I've got to pop upstairs, back in two shakes, all right? 
TOBY Yes'm. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 102. 103    CONTINUED: (2)                                            103 
She begins to go. He stops her with: 
TOBY Do you think I might have a pie while I wait? 
She turns. He is standing at a rack of cooling pies. 
MRS. LOVETT As many as you like, son ... As many as you like. 
She goes and shuts the door behind her. 
104    INT. BAKEHOUSE STEPS -- EVENING                            104 
She leans against the bakehouse door, tormented, gasping for air. Then she slowly bolts the door. 
A120 105   INT. FOGG'S ASYLUM -- EVENING                              105 
A cacophony of madness. The ragged inmates of the asylum are slammed together in a series of cramped cells, the low ceiling pressing down. 
We discover Anthony, dressed as a fashionable wigmaker, walking past the cells with the odious MR. FOGG. Fogg carries a large pair of scissors. 
FOGG ... Oh yes, sir, I agree it would be to our mutual interest to come to some arrangement in regard to my poor children's hair. 
He moves to one of the cells and unlocks it: FOGG I keep the blondes over here. It was yellow hair you was looking for, sir? 
ANTHONY Yes. 
Fogg goes into the crowded cell -- the inmates, all blonde women, scurry back, clearly terrified of Fogg. Anthony sees Johanna, wearing a filthy straitjacket, hunched like a feral animal, cowering in a corner of the cell. 
ANTHONY (points) That one has hair the shade I need. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 103. 105   CONTINUED:                                                   105 
Fogg goes to fetch Johanna, hauls her to Anthony: 
FOGG Come, child. Smile for the gentleman and you shall have a sweetie. 
Johanna's eyes shoot wide when she sees Anthony, but she says nothing. 
FOGG (prepares scissors) Now, where shall I cut? 
Before Fogg can react -- Anthony pulls a revolver from his clothing, grabs Johanna and pushes Fogg back into the cell. He swings the cell door shut, locking Fogg in. 
ANTHONY Not a word, Mr. Fogg, or it will be your last ... Now, I leave you to the mercy of your "children." 
He grabs Johanna and pulls her away. 
Mr. Fogg turns. He is locked in with the blonde inmates. They slowly begin to advance on him. Menacing. It is likely they are going to rip him limb from limb... 
106   EXT. PIE SHOP -- EVENING                                      106 
Todd and Mrs. Lovett are hurrying down the stairs from the barber shop, urgent. Todd has a razor. 
MRS. LOVETT ... I got him locked in -- but if he escapes he'll go to the law! TODD Then he can't escape. 
MRS. LOVETT Mr. T. -- I don't know -- maybe we could-- 
TODD The Judge will be here soon! I have no time, woman! Come on--! 
They turn a corner and walk straight into-- 
The Beadle! 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 104. 106   CONTINUED:                                                   106 
MRS. LOVETT Excuse me, sir! -- You gave me a fright. 
BEADLE Not my intention, good madam, though I am here on official business. (elaborately prepares a pinch of snuff) You see, there's been complaints. About the stink from your chimney. They say at night, it's something most foul. Health regulations -- and the general public welfare, naturally -- being my duty, I'm afraid I'll have to take a look ... (inhales the snuff, Sneezes and daintily wipes his nose) ... at your bakehouse. 
TODD (smoothly) Of course ... But first why don't you come upstairs and let me attend to you? 
BEADLE Much as I do appreciate tonsorial adornment, I really ought see to my "official" obligations first. 
TODD An admirable sentiment -- But I must ask you, out of professional curiosity you understand, is that a cream or a tallow pomade? 
BEADLE (touches his hair) Oh, not a pomade at all! Me secret is a touch of ambergris. 
TODD But, sir, hair that delicate requires a genuine pomade! Come along, let me show you the difference. 
Todd sees that more and more of the ghastly specters are moving around the room -- multiplying exponentially -- we see the TOURIST, the STUDENT, the PRIEST and others. 
They are more intrusive than they have ever been -- touching Todd -- eagerly preparing him for the finale of his drama -- 
GHOSTS (variously) Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! 
By now the ghosts are fully Furies, demented and threatening-- 
GHOSTS Sweeney! Sweeeeeeneeeeey...! 
The screeching music transforms into a strange symphony of inarticulate moans and howls and chants, taking us to... 110   INT. SEWERS -- NIGHT                                              110 
GHOSTS (V.O.) Sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeey... Sweeneysweeneysweeneysweeney... 
Todd and Mrs. Lovett are searching for Toby through a horrible catacomb of decaying sewers. Todd carries a razor. Their voices echo bizarrely: 
MRS. LOVETT Toby! Where are you, love? 
TODD Toby! Where are you, lad? 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 108. 110   CONTINUED:                                                   110 
MRS. LOVETT Nothing's gonna harm you... 
TODD Toby! 
MRS. LOVETT Not while I'm around... 
TODD Toby! 
MRS. LOVETT Nothing's gonna harm you, Darling... 
TODD Nothing to be afraid of boy... 
MRS. LOVETT Not while I'm around. 
TODD Toby... 
MRS. LOVETT Demons are prowling everywhere Nowadays... 
TODD Toby... 
Music takes us to... 
111   INT. BARBER SHOP -- NIGHT                                     111 Anthony and Johanna hurry into the barber shop. She is now dressed as a scruffy boy, a cap hiding her hair. She is distracted and disturbed. 
ANTHONY Mr. Todd...? No matter. You wait for him here -- I'll return with the coach in less than half an hour... 
She gently touches Todd's collection of razors... 
ANTHONY Don't worry, darling, in those clothes, no one will recognize you ... You're safe now. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 109. 111   CONTINUED:                                                  111 
She picks up the largest razor, looks at it, an eerie echo of her father. 
JOHANNA (darkly ironic) Safe ... So we run away and then all our dreams come true? 
ANTHONY I hope so... 
JOHANNA I have never had dreams. Only nightmares. 
ANTHONY Johanna ... When we're free of this place all the ghosts will go away. 
She looks at him very intensely: 
JOHANNA No, Anthony, they never go away. 
He gently touches her face. 
ANTHONY I'll be right back to you ... Half an hour and we'll be free. 
He goes. 
She turns to the window, watches him go. Her expression is sad: he will never fully comprehend her depth. 
Then she sees the Beggar Woman approaching from across the street... 
112   EXT. PIE SHOP -- NIGHT                                       112 
The Beggar Woman begins climbing the stairs to the barber shop: 
BEGGAR WOMAN Beadle ... Beadle ... No good hiding, I saw you! Are you in there still? 
113   INT. BARBER SHOP -- NIGHT                                    113 
Johanna hears the Beggar Woman singing, climbing the stairs. 
JUDGE Hurry, man! 
TODD Pretty women Are a wonder... 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 113. 113   CONTINUED: (4)                                             113 
JUDGE You're in a merry mood again today, barber. 
TODD (joyfully) Pretty women! 
JUDGE What we do for 
They sing simultaneously as Todd smoothes bay rum on the Judge's face and then reaches for his razor: 
JUDGE Pretty women! 
Blowing out their candles Combing out their hair-- Then they leave-- Even when they leave you And vanish, they somehow Can still remain There with you there... 
TODD Pretty women! 
Blowing out their candles Or combing out their hair, 
Even when they leave, They still Are there, They're there... The music builds dangerously as: 
JUDGE How seldom it is one meets a fellow spirit! 
TODD With fellow tastes -- in women, at least. 
JUDGE What? What's that? 
TODD The years no doubt have changed me, sir. (MORE) 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 114. 113   CONTINUED: (5)                                              113 TODD (cont'd) But then, I suppose the face of a barber -- the face of a prisoner in the dock -- is not particularly memorable. 
JUDGE (a horrified realization) Benjamin Barker! 
TODD BENJAMIN BARKER! 
The factory whistle screams a steady, terrible blast as-- 
Todd brutally SLASHES the Judge's throat-- 
Severing his jugular-- 
The spray of blood drenches Todd-- 
He pulls the lever and sends the body tumbling out of sight down the chute. 
The music continues... 
As Todd stands for a long moment, blood dripping from his face, exalted. 
Then he sinks to his knees, overcome. 
The music stops. 
A long beat of silence. 
Then Todd looks at his razor deeply: TODD Rest now, my friend, Rest now forever, Sleep now the untroubled Sleep of the angels. 
Then silence as he reverently sets the razor on the floor and looks at it. 
We focus on his face. 
His quest is completed. 
His demons silenced. 
The ghosts are gone. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 115. 113   CONTINUED: (6)                                              113 
It's done. 
He just kneels there. No reason to move. No purpose in life. 
Then... 
A sound from the chest. A slight thump. 
His eyes dart to the chest. 
He slowly picks up his razor and moves to the chest. Then suddenly WRENCHES it open and HAULS out Johanna-- 
TODD (darkly) Come for a shave, have you, lad? 
JOHANNA No -- I... 
MRS. LOVETT I'd be twice the wife she was! I love you! Could that thing have cared for you Like me? 
TODD (a harrowing keen) WHAT HAVE I DONE?! 
Todd's eyes suddenly snap up to Mrs. Lovett -- as the glorious "Little Priest" waltz theme returns-- 
TODD Mrs. Lovett, You're a bloody wonder, Eminently practical and yet Appropriate as always, As you've said repeatedly, There's little point in dwelling on the past. 
He steps toward her, she steps back, unsure, as they sing simultaneously: 
TODD No, come here, my love... Not a thing to fear, My love... What's dead Is dead. 
MRS. LOVETT Do you mean it? Everything I did I swear I thought Was only for the best, Believe me! (a heartbreaking plea) Can we still be Married? 
Todd steps toward her darkly. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 119. 114   CONTINUED: (4)                                              114 
She knows she is doomed. 
But steps into his arms anyway for a final, triumphant waltz: 
TODD The history of the world, my pet-- 
MRS. LOVETT (through tears) Oh, Mr. Todd, Ooh, Mr. Todd, Leave it to me... 
TODD Is learn forgiveness and try to forget. 
MRS. LOVETT (the lost dream) By the sea, Mr. Todd, We'll be comfy-cozy, By the sea, Mr. Todd, Where there's no one nosy... 
He waltzes her toward the roaring oven. 
She offers no resistance, fully aware of what's coming. 
The blazing, thundering inferno of the oven makes it seem they are the damned, dancing through Hell. 
TODD And life is for the alive, my dear, So let's keep living it--! 
BOTH Just keep living it, Really living it--! 
The music reaches a thundering crescendo as-- 
He flings her into the oven and slams the doors-- 
We hear her screaming. And banging on the oven doors. 
Todd sinks to his knees and covers his ears desperately as the banging and screaming and music finally fade to silence. 
Then he slowly drags himself across the floor to the Beggar Woman. 
He cradles her head in his arms. 
(CONTINUED) PAGE 120. 114   CONTINUED: (5)                                              114 
TODD There was a barber and his wife, And she was beautiful. A foolish barber and his wife, She was his reason and his life. And she was beautiful. And she was virtuous. And he was... 
Todd folds himself over his dead wife. 
The only sound his deep, anguished sobs. 
A long beat. 
Then he becomes aware of something. He looks over to see.... 
Toby -- staring at him from the open sewer grate. He has seen everything. 
Todd watches as Toby silently pulls himself up. Todd gently sets Lucy down and then, still kneeling, turns to face Toby. 
A long beat as they look at each other. 
Then Toby slowly moves and carefully picks up Todd's razor. 
Todd looks at him. 
Then slowly unbuttons his collar and exposes his neck. 
He bends his head back, offering his naked throat. 
Toby slowly goes to him and methodically slits his throat. Todd continues to gaze up at Toby as we hear the lonely sound of wind escaping from his severed wind pipe. 
Then Toby turns and leaves the bakehouse. 
Todd leans forward, dying. 
We cut to his point-of-view: 
The rough brick floor... 
