<b><!-- </b> <b>/* </b>Break-out-of-frames script By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com) Over 400+ free scripts here! Above notice MUST stay entact for use <b>*/ </b> if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> Sweet Smell of Sucess 
SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS 
by 
Clifford Odets 
Ernest Lehman 
Working Script For 
THE SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS 
FADE IN: 
EXT. INT. GLOBE NEWSPAPER BUILDING - DUSK - N.Y. 
A row of newspaper delivery trucks is lined up against the long loading bay, waiting for the edition.  In the foreground a large clock establishes the time as 8:10 PM. A rumbling noise warns the men to take their positions; a few seconds later the bales of newspapers come sliding the spiral chutes onto the moving belts from which they are manhandled onto the trucks.  Much noise and shouting. 
The front truck moves out to the city street.  As it does CAMERA EMPHASIZES the big poster on its side.  The design features a large pair of spectacles with heavy rims - a trademark of Hunsecker's. (It will later be seen as the masthead of the gossip column.) 
"GO WITH THE GLOBE" 
Read 
J.J. HUNSECKER 
"They eyes of Broadway" 
EXT. BROADWAY - DUSK - N.Y. 
The truck starts on its journey along Broadway.  Some shots are of the vehicle moving through very heavy traffic (taken from a camera car).  Others are from the inside of the truck; as it slows down, the delivery man tosses the heavy bundle of papers onto the sidewalk.  CAMERA following the truck, holds it in foreground against the blazing electric signs of Broadway and Times Square. 
EXT. BROADWAY - NIGHT 
The southeast corner of the intersection of Broadway and 46th Street, CAMERA, fairly high, shoots north towards the impressive vista of electric signs, silhouetted against the darkening sky.  Very heavy traffic and crowded sidewalks. CAMERA descends towards the Orange Juice stand on the corner, passing the booth which sells souvenir hats.  It moves through the congestion of chattering passersby, steadily approaching a smartly dressed young man, who stands at the counter of the Orange Juice stand.  Oblivious of the hub-bub around him, SIDNEY FALCO is concerned only with his private problems. 
He turns sharply as a newspaper truck pulls up at the curb behind him; this is what he has been waiting for... 
CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHT 
The news truck delivery man tosses a bundle out onto the sidewalk besides a newsstand. 
DETAIL 
The bundle of newspapers.  It hits the sidewalk with a smack. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney Falco crosses the sidewalk.  The owner of the newsstand, IGGY, comes to pick up the bundle; he is a grizzled gnome with a philosophical sense of humor; Sidney snaps his fingers with impatience.  Iggy wears spectacles and is clearly more or less blind, he has to grope for the cord that binds the papers. 
IGGY Aw Lady, if I looked like you, I'd-- 
SIDNEY C'mon...C'mon... 
IGGY (recognizing Sidney's voice) Keep ya sweatshirt on, Sidney. 
Majestically taking his time, Iggy lifts the bundle to his stand and cuts the cord. 
IGGY Hey, Fresh, the Globe just came in -- Hey, Sidney, want an item for Hunsecker's column?  Two rolls get fresh with a baker!  Hey, hot, hot, hot -- etc. 
Annoyed, Sidney throws him a dime, seizes a paper and returns briskly to the orange juice stand. 
ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT 
Sidney's place at the crowded counter has been taken by newcomers.  Rudely, he recovers his half-consumed glass of orange juice and sandwich.  He takes them further down the counter to a quieter corner at which he can examine the paper.  CAMERA MOVING WITH HIM, picks up further snatches of overheard dialogue. (See dialogue attached at the end of the scene) We move close enough to see Sidney's hands open the paper expertly at HUNSECKER'S column - identifiable by the picture of the spectacled eyes.  Over scene there is a babble of offstage dialogue. 
CLOSE UP OF SIDNEY 
His face is sullen as his eyes run rapidly down the column. He is reacting to a not unexpected disappointment. 
EXT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - BROADWAY - NIGHT 
CAMERA SHOOTS WEST on 46th Street, as Sidney comes down the side street from the newsstand in background.  Irritably, he jerks open the door of a shabby entrance.  As the glass door closes, Sidney is seen striding up the stairs. 
FIRST FLOOR - OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Beside the top of the stairs is the door to Sidney's office. On it there is a cheaply printed cardboard sign which reads: 
SIDNEY FALCO 
Publicity 
From inside comes the sound of desultory typing.  Sidney comes up the stairs two at a time and turns into the door. 
INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
SALLY is on the phone as Sidney strides in. 
SALLY Just a minute, Mr. Weldon.  I think... 
Sidney vigorously indicates that he doesn't want to take the call. 
SALLY (to phone) I'm sorry.  I thought that was Mr. Falco returning.  Yes, I'll tell him when he comes in.  I know he's been trying to reach you. 
She hangs up. 
SALLY That's the third time he's called today. 
SIDNEY He wants me to break a leg? 
SALLY (literally) No, an arm, he said. (then) I told him you were sure the item would be in Mr. Hunsecker's column in tomorrow's... 
SIDNEY (interrupting, sharply) It isn't.  I've just seen the early edition. 
SALLY But... 
SIDNEY But what? 
SALLY That makes five days in a row that Mr. Hunsecker's cut you out of his column. 
SIDNEY May I rent you out as an adding machine. 
He has begun to change his clothes. 
SIDNEY Get me Joe Robard. 
Sally goes back into the outer room. 
SIDNEY Who else phoned? 
SALLY The renting agent and the tailor. 
Shooting past D'Angelo and Sidney towards the bandstand. 
D'ANGELO That's a lollipop that, boy.  The kid is only great. 
SIDNEY And with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, Frank. 
D'Angelo looks quickly at Sidney, sensing the undercurrent. Then he turns his back on the musicians, remarking in a quiet tone. 
D'ANGELO Went over to Philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month... 
SIDNEY (after a pause) See my mother? 
D'ANGELO (shaking his head) I only had a few hours. 
A glum moment.  Frank sips his highball: Sidney lights a cigarette, animosity on his face. 
D'ANGELO Thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow. 
SIDNEY (begrudgingly) Robard's my client.  I did it for him and his club, not your boys. 
Frank again notes Sidney's resentful manner.  Sidney looks towards the musicians. 
SIDNEY (quietly) Frank, I think maybe you lied to me. 
D'ANGELO (quietly) Looka, Sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar? 
SIDNEY (looking towards Steve) You told me that your boy was washed up with Susie Hunsecker, didn't you? 
D'ANGELO Yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge.  And, frankly, I'm glad.  For Steve's sake, I'm glad, not yours.  I manage these boys and I got their best interests at heart.  Steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age. 
SIDNEY (narrowly) You told him that? 
D'ANGELO Not in those exact words - you know what a temper he's got. 
A pause.  Sidney is thinking. 
SIDNEY When do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road? 
D'ANGELO Coupla weeks.  For eight weeks. 
SIDNEY That's a nice tour.  All booked? (Frank nodding) When was Susie around here last? 
D'ANGELO Four five nights ago.  That's how I know the romance is off.  Also Steve's in a very bad mood. 
SIDNEY (abruptly) Listen, Frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth. 
D'ANGELO (annoyed) I don't like this threatening attitude.  When it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl... 
RITA 
Locating Sidney, she comes up behind him.  He turns away from D'Angelo as she whispers to him.  As she departs, Sidney turns back. 
SIDNEY If you knew Hunsecker as well as I did, you might understand why it's my business.  Maybe you're walking around blind, Frank, without a cane. 
Sidney gets off his stool.  Casually, but to effect, he adds: 
SIDNEY ...and in case you didn't know it, Susie Hunsecker's out there on the back step right now. 
He turns away, glancing towards Steve on the bandstand behind him. 
D'ANGELO 
He looks disturbed. 
INT./EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARD 
From D'Angelo's point of view.  CAMERA LOOKS UP at Steve. The Quintet is now reaching the end of the number, a driving rhythm of considerable excitement.  A waiter passes in f.g. and the CAMERA CRANES BACK through the curtained doorway to the backstage part of the club.  This movement is continued as we see some other employees, including Jerry Wiggins, the intermission pianist, who is waiting in the corridor near the fire-exit.  As he steps out of the door to discard a cigarette, CAMERA AGAIN CONTINUES ITS MOVEMENT, CRANING BACK AND DOWNWARD into the little courtyard.  Here, it discovers the figure of a young woman who is waiting in the shadow near the steps of the fire-escape, listening to the music. 
CLOSER ANGLE 
This is SUSAN HUNSECKER.  She wears an expensive mink coat. It is oddly in contrast with her personality; the face is sensitive and intelligent, but childlike and tragic.  A girl in adolescence already burdened with problems beyond her capacity.  Over scene, the music continues.  Susan shifts her position, knowing that the session will soon be at an end and that the musicians will be coming backstage. 
INT. ELYSIAN ROOM 
Steve is playing the last bars of the number; the whole group now in unison. 
QUINTET 
The music comes sharply, dramatically to its finish.  There is some applause.  The boys relax.  Steve reaches for the microphone and in the characteristically casual manner of the "cool" musician, announces the end of the set, thanking the audience, identifying the quintet by name and introducing the intermission pianist.  During this, Carson, Chico and Paul wander off the bandstand behind him. 
EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARD 
Chico, Paul and Carson come through to the corridor backstage. As they do so, Chico, glancing out of the open door sees Susan in the courtyard.  He goes out onto the fire-escape; Paul following behind. 
CHICO Hi!  Susie... 
SUSAN Hello, Chico.  Paul. 
CHICO (to Paul) Throw a rope round this chick while I go get Steve. 
Chico goes swiftly back into the club.  Paul remains with Susan.  There is a momentary silence; Paul is embarrassed because Susan is.  Susan makes an effort at conversation, she nods towards the club. 
SUSAN Full house...? 
PAUL Packin' 'em in. 
INT. CLUB 
Steve has been trapped by a young woman in spectacles, a much-too-earnest devotee of progressive jazz. 
DEVOTEE I'm terribly interested in jazz -- serious jazz.  You studied with Milhaud, didn't you?  This is such an interesting fusion of the traditional, classical form with the new progressive style, I just wanted to ask you how you came to form the group...- 
CHICO 
He comes through the curtains of the doorway, pausing as he sees that Steve is involved with the Intellectual Young Woman. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Steve glancing at Chico over the shoulder of the Intellectual Young Woman.  Seeing that Chico has something to say to him, he wriggles out of the young woman's clutches by passing the buck to the unfortunate to Fred Katz, who is descending from the bandstand behind him. 
STEVE Well, we just sort of got together. (turning to introduce Fred) Maybe if you ask Mr. Katz...He writes the stuff, you know. 
FRED (blankly) Huh? 
RESUME CHICO 
Steve joins Chico and they go through the curtains into the corridor outside. 
CORRIDOR 
SIDNEY Chickie, I'll have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like you...! 
Susan ignores his remark, continuing thoughtfully: 
SUSAN I hope that J.J. really likes Steve, that it isn't an act. 
SIDNEY (with an indignant edge) Why should he put on an act?  Your brother has told PRESIDENTS where to go and what to do! 
The taxi has pulled to a stop.  Susan sits for a moment before she remarks. 
SUSAN The act would be for my sake, not Steve's... 
Realizing that they have come to their destination, Susan gets up, moving out of CAMERA as she disembarks from the taxi.  CAMERA catches a glimpse of apprehension in Sidney's eyes.  Quickly, he decides to follow her. 
EXT. BROADWAY 
Susan, getting out of the taxi, moves past CAMERA.  Sidney, following her, instructs the driver. 
SIDNEY (to cabbie) Wait for me.  I'll be right back. 
LONGER SHOT 
Sidney moves after the girl, calling: "Susie!" 
SUSAN 
Hearing him, Susan turns back.  Sidney walks into shot to join her. 
SIDNEY (lightly) It's not my nature, Susie, but I'll talk to you like an uncle... 
SUSAN (smiling) But I don't need an uncle, Sidney. 
They move through the doors. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Sidney quickly corrects himself, saying earnestly: 
SIDNEY No, I mean because I admire you - in fact, more than admire you - although that's neither here nor there. (quickly skipping to the important point) Susie, don't sell your brother short.  Talk this over with him, I mean - you'll find him a real friend. 
SUSAN 
Susan looks thoughtful, making no comment. 
RESUME SIDNEY AND SUSAN 
Carefully (again probing) he prompts her: 
SIDNEY Any message, in case I see J.J. later? 
Susan turns away and walks out past CAMERA.  Sidney watches her. 
SUSAN 
She looks back at Sidney, quietly firm. 
SUSAN Yes.  Tell him for me that Steve Dallas is the first real man I've ever been in love with... 
She turns away and walks through the inner door, going down the corridor towards the elevators in background. 
RESUME SIDNEY 
The sincerity of the girl's manner strikes home to Sidney. Now that her back is turned we see the sharp twinge of pain with which he hears the statement of her feelings for another man.  Angered, he wheels, striding out of the door onto Broadway. 
EXT. BROADWAY 
Sidney returns to the cab, instructing the driver: 
SIDNEY The Twenty One Club. 
He climbs in and the taxi drives off down Broadway. 
LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - NIGHT 
CAMERA HIGH, SHOOTING WEST down 52nd Street, as Sidney's cab pulls up, double parking in front of the 21 Club.  Sidney maneuvers his way between the parked cars towards the entrance and the CAMERA DESCENDS to SHOOT ALONG the courtyard towards the entrance.  We see the figure of Jimmy Weldon and his girl friend coming out of the Club. 
CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHT 
Jimmy Weldon is coming out of the Club accompanied by a girl; he is slightly tight.  As he steps through the outer doors, Weldon again spies Sidney on the sidewalk; he steps to one side of the entrance way. 
Sidney slips through the congestion, but just as he tries to enter the Club, Weldon's hand shoots out, neatly ambushing him, pulling him aside into the narrow courtyard.  Sidney is instantly resentful of this manhandling, but has to adjust himself, assuming a quick smile for the benefit of Weldon. 
SIDNEY Jimmy!  This is a coincidence.  I am just going - 
WELDON (overlapping) Yeah.  A coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week! (to the girl) This is my press agent, Joan. 
Weldon, jibing at Sidney, plays his remarks off the girl, who is amused; Sidney, of course, is not. 
SIDNEY (quickly) I tried to reach you twice - 
WELDON (overlapping) What do you do for that hundred a week.  Fall out of bed? 
SIDNEY Jimmy, I'm on my way inside right now to talk to Hunsecker.  I can promise you - 
WELDON (horsing) Joan, call a cop!  We'll arrest this kid for larceny! 
Sidney flinches, his pride touched. 
SIDNEY Listen, when your band was playing at Roseland - 
WELDON (cutting in) That was two months ago.  Take your hand out of my pocket, thief! 
The girl tries to quiet Weldon, who has gone from horsing to loud contempt. 
THE GIRL Take it easy, Jimmy dear... 
WELDON (indignantly) Why?  It's a dirty job, but I pay clean money for it, don't I? 
Abruptly Sidney bursts out, giving as good as he has taken: 
SIDNEY No more you don't!  What is this - You're showing off for her?  They're supposed to hear you in Korea? 
WELDON (smirking to the girl) He's intuitive - he knows he's getting fired! 
SIDNEY If you're funny, James, I'm a pretzel!  Drop dead! 
Weldon, shepherded by the girl, is already on his way across the sidewalk. 
SENATOR I don't think we caught your name, young man. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Group shot.  The Senator in foreground, Sidney beyond Hunsecker in background, and the others on edge of shot. 
SIDNEY Sidney Falco, sir.  And, of course, everyone knows and admires you, Senator Walker. 
SENATOR (humorously) Every four years I get less convinced of that.  This young lady is Miss Linda James. (indicates the Girl) She's managed by Manny Davis. (he indicates the Agent) 
SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
Sidney nods pleasantly to the Girl and the Agent. 
SIDNEY I know Manny Davis. 
HUNSECKER (quietly) Everyone knows Manny Davis... (as the phone rings on the table) ...except MRS. Manny Davis. 
Hunsecker is picking up the phone, continuing: 
HUNSECKER Yes?  Go ahead, Billy - shoot... 
REVERSE ANGLE 
To intercut with the above.  The Senator, the Agent and the Girl watching Hunsecker.  The Agent's reaction to Hunsecker's remark is a sickly smile. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He repeats aloud a story which is told him over the telephone. 
HUNSECKER Uh huh.  Sports cars in California are getting smaller and smaller...the other day you were crossing Hollywood Boulevard and you were hit by one...you had to go to the hospital and have it removed... (coolly) You're not following the column: I had it last week. 
During the speech, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney again. At the end, Sidney looks up in the direction of the Senator. 
SIDNEY Do you believe in capital punishment, Senator? 
RESUME REVERSE ANGLE 
The Senator, amused, asks: 
SENATOR Why? 
RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
Sidney glances sidelong at Hunsecker. 
SIDNEY (pointing to the phone) A man has just been sentenced to death... 
Hunsecker's face hardens; aware of Sidney's impertinence, he does not design to react directly; he turns towards the Agent. 
HUNSECKER Manny, what exactly are the UNSEEN gifts of this lovely young thing that you manage...? 
THE AGENT AND THE GIRL 
The Agent glances uneasily at the Girl beside him. 
AGENT Well, she sings a little...you know, sings... 
GIRL (by rote) Manny's faith in me is simply awe- inspiring, Mr. Hunsecker.  Actually, I'm still studying, but - 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He studies the Girl intently. 
HUNSECKER What subject? 
RESUME THE AGENT AND THE GIRL 
GIRL Singing, of course...straight concert and - 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
Hunsecker's glance flicks between the Girl and the Senator. 
HUNSECKER Why "of course"?  It might, for instance, be politics... 
As the Girl betrays herself with a nervous glance at the Senator beside her, CAMERA eases back to include him.  The Senator is unruffled; gravely, he lights a cigar.  The Girl laughs. 
GIRL Me?  I mean "I"?  Are you kidding, Mr. Hunsecker?  With my Jersey City brains? 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
Again his glance links the Girl and the Senator. 
HUNSECKER The brains may be Jersey City, but the clothes are Trainor-Norell. 
THE SENATOR, THE AGENT AND THE GIRL 
The Girl and the Agent are both nervously uneasy.  The Senator closely examines the tip of his cigar and, with deliberation, turns towards Sidney. 
SENATOR Are you an actor, Mr. Falco? 
GIRL (supporting the change of subject) That's what I was thinking.  Are you, Mr. Falco? 
SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
Hunsecker, for the first time, half-turns in Sidney's direction, amused. 
HUNSECKER How did you guess it, Miss James? 
RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR 
They all look at Sidney. 
GIRL He's so pretty, that's how. 
RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
Sidney bitterly resents the adjective, but contrives to hide the fact; he smiles, gracefully accepting the compliment. Hunsecker (who knows what Sidney feels) is pleased; he turns towards Sidney expansively. 
HUNSECKER Mr. Falco, let it be said at once, is a man of FORTY faces, not one, none too pretty and ALL deceptive. See that grin?  It's the charming street urchin's face.  It's part of his "helpless" act - he throws himself on your mercy.  I skip the pleading nervous bit that sometimes blends over into bluster.  The moist grateful eye is a favorite face with him - it frequently ties in with the act of boyish candor: he's talking straight from the heart, get it?  He's got about half-a-dozen faces for the ladies, but the real cut one to me is the quick dependable chap - nothing he won't do for you in a pinch.  At least, so he says!  Tonight Mr. Falco, whom I did not invite to sit at this table, is about to show in his last and most pitiful role: pale face with tongue hanging out. In brief, gentlemen and Jersey Lilly, the boy sitting with us is a hungry press agent and fully up to all the tricks of his very slimy trade! 
Hunsecker has started his speech lightly, but it has built up to enough cold contempt and feeling to embarrass and intimidate the others at the table.  In conclusion, Hunsecker, his eyes on Sidney, picks up a cigarette and waits expectantly... 
HUNSECKER (quietly) Match me, Sidney... 
SIDNEY (coolly) Not just this minute, J.J.... 
Amused, Hunsecker lights his own cigarette, turns towards a man who comes up to the table. 
GROUP SHOT 
As Hunsecker stands up, Sidney follows suit.  The Agent, very nervous, gets to his feet and the Girl does likewise. The Senator, whose face is sober, also rises from the table. 
HUNSECKER (to the Senator, affably) Next time you come up, you might join me at my TV show. 
With Sidney making way for him, Hunsecker walks round the end of the table to the Senator.  The Senator faces Hunsecker solemnly. 
SENATOR (quietly and cautiously) Thank you, J.J., for what I consider sound advice. 
Hunsecker matches the Senator's solemnity. 
HUNSECKER (deadpan) Go, Thou, and sin no more. 
Hunsecker moves out of shot.  Sidney murmurs a "pleased to meet you" to the Senator; then he follows Hunsecker.  The Senator remains looking after Hunsecker.  Behind him, the Agent and the Girl, watch him apprehensively.  The Senator, his face now showing the traces of guilt which he did not reveal to Hunsecker, seems unwilling to turn back to face them. 
ON THE WAY TO THE FOYER 
Hunsecker and Sidney.  Hunsecker addresses the Captain on his way out of the restaurant. 
HUNSECKER Mac, don't let the Senator pay that check... 
CAPTAIN I'll take care of it, Mr. Hunsecker. 
CAMERA tracks with Hunsecker and Sidney as they move out towards the hat check stand. 
HUNSECKER (murmuring) President!  My big toe would make a better President! 
By now they are at the coatroom, Hunsecker smiling. 
ATTENDANT Mr. Hunsecker's coat, Joe. 
HUNSECKER Find me a good one, Joe. 
He accepts the proferred coat as he moves past CAMERA. 
LONGER SHOT - NIGHT 
The Doorman on the sidewalk has noticed Hunsecker, almost before the columnist has appeared.  The Doorman wheels, snapping his fingers and signaling towards the car park attendant, who can be seen at some distance in the background under the lights of the Kinney Car Park.  The attendant is seen to react with alacrity, running into the Park. 
HUNSECKER 
Putting on his overcoat, he addresses another of the Captains who has escorted him out of the Club. 
HUNSECKER Dan, anyone calls, tell 'em I'll be at the Morocco, maybe the Embers. 
DAN Very good, Mr. Hunsecker. 
Sidney catches up with Hunsecker as he moves out onto the sidewalk. 
HUNSECKER Where's your coat, Sidalee?  Saving tips? 
Sidney thinks of an impertinent reply, decides not to be drawn and says nothing. 
HUNSECKER (to Sidney) My curiosity is killing me; what are you so rambunctious about tonight? 
Sidney again does not answer; this time he points across the street... 
SIDNEY There's your fat friend. 
LONGER SHOT - POLICE CAR - NIGHT 
The car is framed in foreground; We can read the sign POLICE attached to the visor.  Two men in plain-clothes, detectives, are in the front seats.  The man nearest is HARRY KELLO. Wanting to look like a prosperous business man, Kello looks soft, fat, mild and well-barbered; but he is dangerous; he knows it and enjoys it.  With "big shots" he is playful and kidding, always says just enough, not too much.  He is very relaxed, and mild in manner, but underneath there is not only an animal energy, but a feral pressing at you.  His voice is on the hoarse side.  He measures situations automatically and instantly. 
The police radio is chattering.  Also in evidence is the telephone, the radio link with headquarters.  The detective at the wheel nudges Kello, pointing across the street. Kello gets out of the car and moves to meet the columnist. 
HUNSECKER (as he approaches) Hello, Harry. 
KELLO (cheerfully) Bonna sera, commendatore.  Come sta? 
Sidney follows a couple of paces behind Hunsecker; he is in no hurry to meet the detective, whom he clearly dislikes. 
HUNSECKER (turning to Sidney) You see, Sidalee, that shows that Lt. Kello likes your people. 
REVERSE ON KELLO 
Kello offers his hand to Hunsecker. 
KELLO It's my Brooklyn background, J.J. I'm good on Yiddish, too. 
Hunsecker accepting the handshake, winces with pretended pain at what is clearly an over-enthusiastic grip. 
HUNSECKER Harry, am I supposed to say "uncle"? 
Kello laughs, releases the grip; Hunsecker strolls past him stoops to lean into the car listening to the police calls on the radio. 
HUNSECKER Anything fit to print, tonight? (to the policeman in the car) Hello, Phil.  How're the kids. 
The detective inside the car answers, respectfully. 
PHIL Fine, Mr. Hunsecker. 
HUNSECKER Any news fit to print tonight? 
KELLO (joining Hunsecker) I just checked "downtown".  Quiet everywhere tonight. 
HUNSECKER Incidentally, what happened to that doll? - You gave me the item last night.  Still alive? 
KELLO Yeah.  At Bellevue.  Still hanging on.  But they still don't know if she was pushed. 
HUNSECKER She mighta jumped.  Love suicide? (to the policeman in the car) Check it for me, Phil...it's a real heart throb. 
While Phil lifts the radio phone, calling headquarters, Hunsecker turns back to Kello and Sidney. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Mischievously, Hunsecker nods at Sidney. 
HUNSECKER (to Kello) Say hello to Sidney Falco.  Tickle him - he's been a bad boy tonight. He called you my fat friend. 
KELLO (mildly) I don't believe it. 
Instantly aware that J.J. is toying with Sidney, Kello offers his large hand to Sidney, who refuses it. 
SIDNEY I know...I know you're the strongest cop in town. 
KELLO (with a laugh) I call him the boy with the ice cream face! 
HUNSECKER (laughing) Say, that's good - it's nice - in fact, it's APT, Harry! 
SIDNEY 
He is satisfied. 
HUNSECKER 
Hunsecker gets into the driver's seat beside Nikko, the Japanese houseboy.  CAMERA is CLOSE on Hunsecker who does not look back but is clearly aware of the position of Sidney as he puts the car into gear, revving the engine... 
SIDNEY - NIGHT 
The big car accelerates with impressive power.  In doing so, it sends a cloud of fumes and a swirl of dust in Sidney's direction.  He leaps out of the way, too late.  CAMERA MOVES closer to him as, with anger and ignominy he inspects his precious clothing for damage.  But, as he looks after the car, his face hardens into grim humor; he senses that this petty gesture from Hunsecker is an indication of his vulnerability, not his strength.  As, dusting his coat, Sidney walks away, CAMERA RISES, watching his jaunty figure cross the street in the direction of 51st Street. 
QUICK LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. TOOTS SHOR'S RESTAURANT 
A LONG SHOT looking over the round bar towards the entrance. Sidney comes in through the revolving doors and comes toward CAMERA.  His eyes search among the crowd. 
CLOSER ANGLE 
REVERSE ANGLE.  A CAPTAIN approaches Sidney. 
CAPTAIN Hello, Sidney.  Wanna table? 
SIDNEY (shaking his head) Just hopping tonight.  Leo Bartha been in? 
CAPTAIN Yeah, having supper with the Mrs. She's over there. 
The Captain nods towards a booth on the other side of the bar where Mrs. Bartha is sitting alone.  Seeing that Bartha is not with her, the Captain looks around the bar... 
CAPTAIN He's somewhere... 
SIDNEY (interrupting) Thanks, I see him... 
Sidney is looking back towards the entrance hall, where... 
BARTHA 
Bartha comes forward (from the Men's Room) passing the Captain and Sidney.  Sidney moves to intercept him. 
SIDNEY Hello, Leo.  How goes that Sunday piece on cigarette girls? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
A CLOSE SHOT on Bartha as he turns towards Sidney, stopping. 
BARTHA (cautiously) Who told you about it? 
SIDNEY 
Sidney smiles at Bartha, but the threat is clear. 
SIDNEY The cigarettes girl...Rita.  And she took out all her hairpins, too. 
RESUME BARTHA 
He throws a quick glance at his wife in the booth in background.  CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney, who has noted the look, moves closer to Bartha. 
SIDNEY I never had the pleasure of meeting your wife.  You know what I wonder, Leo?  Could you use a hot little item for tomorrow's column? 
Sidney is pulling out of his pocket a pad on which to scribble the item.  But Bartha faces him squarely, speaking sotto voce but with emphasis: 
BARTHA What is this, blackmail?  Beat it! 
Bartha turns on his heel and turns to walk towards his wife beyond. 
SIDNEY 
Sidney's face tightens.  After a pause, he makes a decision and walks towards the booth. 
BARTHA AND HIS WIFE 
Bartha's wife is reading a tabloid and sipping champagne while her husband resumes eating a sandwich.  These two are antagonists in a long war.  Sidney comes up to the table, repeats: 
SIDNEY Leo, I've never had the pleasure of meeting your wife... 
Bartha looks up.  What can he do?  Begrudgingly: 
BARTHA Loretta...Sidney Falco... 
WIFE (chatty) How do you do, Mr. Falco.  If you know anything about horses, sit a minute.  Help yourself to a glass of this N.Y. State champagne - that's what my husband buys me. 
Mrs. Bartha pushes the champagne bottle in Sidney's direction as Sidney sits pleasantly; Bartha concentrates on his sandwich. 
SIDNEY All the imported wines aren't what they're cracked up to be. 
WIFE Whose side are you on, Mr. Falco, his or mine? 
SIDNEY Frankly, Mrs. Bartha, I'm a neutral observer for the United Nations. 
WIFE 
Mrs. Bartha laughs, enjoying his deftness; then: 
WIFE What's your first name? 
SIDNEY (over scene) Sidney. 
Mrs. Bartha turns to concentrate on the names in the racing column of the tabloid. 
WIFE (searching the column) No horse running tomorrow by that name... 
BARTHA, WIFE AND SIDNEY 
An ANGLE favoring Bartha and Sidney.  Bartha glowers at his wife, resenting the fact that she has permitted Sidney to join them. 
BARTHA You ought to stop this nonsense, Loretta, these two dollar bets. 
WIFE (cheerfully) It's compensation, Leo, for the marginal life we lead. (to Sidney) Sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who -- ? 
BARTHA (sharply interrupting) That's right!  Tell him, so I can read it in Hunsecker's column first! 
WIFE (to Sidney, brightly) Oh, are you a spy for the other side? 
SIDNEY No, I actually sat down to give Leo an item. 
produces his pad again, begins to write on it. 
WIFE Leo, he wants to give you an item - don't be sullen. 
SIDNEY What do I do now?  Whistle "The Stars and Stripes Forever?" 
Mrs. Bartha slides along the seat, reaching for her fur. 
MRS. BARTHA 
CAMERA PULLS BACK with her as she collects her belongings, slides out between the tables and comes forward, passing Sidney to her husband. 
WIFE (lightly) What you do now, Mr. Falco, is crow like a hen - you have just laid an egg. 
She presents her fur to her husband, and turns her back, inviting him to put it around her shoulders. 
BARTHA AND WIFE 
ANOTHER ANGLE, favoring Bartha.  He has not fully understood the significance of his wife's gesture.  He studies her. She confirms his hopes as she adds: 
WIFE Leo, this is one of the cleanest things I've seen you do in years... 
With the fur around her shoulders, she turns and takes her husband's arm with some pride.  They walk away.  CAMERA ERASES BACK to include Sidney.  He is angry at himself - more for the failure of his efforts at blackmail than any sense of shame at the attempt. 
OTIS ELWELL 
A MEDIUM LONG SHOT.  At a booth on the other side of the bar sits a dapper gentleman with a twinkle of malice in his eyes. He has been watching the altercation with keen interest and satisfaction.  Elwell gives some instructions to a waiter who is serving him with drinks, pointing towards Sidney. 
SIDNEY 
Sidney's face shows a burning resentment.  He glances about him to see how much of the embarrassing scene has been observed.  As he moves away, the waiter walks into shot, addressing him. 
WAITER 
A waiter approaches Sidney.  He has a message. 
WAITER Otis Elwell wants to see you, Sidney. 
The waiter nods towards the other side of the circular bar. Sidney, his humiliation and rage still burning, looks off towards... 
OTIS ELWELL 
From Sidney's viewpoint.  Elwell beckons. 
SIDNEY 
He comes round the circular bar.  He shows no eagerness to join Elwell, but approaches the table.  Elwell makes a gesture, inviting Sidney to sit.  Sidney doesn't accept it. 
ELWELL (pleasantly) I see Bartha gave you cold tongue for supper. (as Sidney starts to leave) Hey, wait a minute! 
SIDNEY (hesitating) I'm late for a date with a dame. 
Then, returning, he leans over the table addressing Elwell with quiet anger. 
SIDNEY Otis, if you're trying to blow this brawl into an item for your column - forget it! 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Across Sidney and Elwell.  Elwell is quietly enjoying Sidney's display of hurt dignity. 
ELWELL (affably) How is dear old J.J. by the way? 
SIDNEY (his anger relapsing) Call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock. 
ELWELL (lightly) If it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours... 
SIDNEY 
A CLOSE SHOT.  While Elwell continues, he is not looking at Sidney.  Elwell's expression of dislike of Hunsecker is not overemphatic; but Sidney senses, nevertheless, that it is very real - and this gives him a new idea. 
ELWELL (continuing over scene) ...Talk of a wake! - they'd club each other to cater the affair for free! 
RESUME ELWELL AND SIDNEY 
Elwell looks up at Sidney as he continues. 
ELWELL (happily) By the way, did I hear something about J.J. giving you the flit gun treatment - he shut you out of the column. (amused) Why? 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Sidney has rapidly resumed his manner of resentment (in order to exploit Elwell's dislike of Hunsecker). 
SIDNEY You don't know that lunatic yet? Whims - egotistic whims!  Like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy! (a pause, then:) That's what the fight with Bartha was about. "Leo", I says, "Hunsecker froze me out.  So I'm eating humble pie this month - please print me an item." 
ELWELL (pleased) And, instead, he printed his heel in your face? 
SIDNEY (morose) I see you're full of human feelings... 
ELWELL 
He has lost interest in Sidney. 
ELWELL (with a shrug) Like most of the human race, Sidney, I'm bored.  I'd go a mile for a chuckle... 
Elwell's voice fades: his attention has been caught by... 
REVERSE ANGLE 
...three people are passing the table, squeezing their way past; a man with two very fetching young women.  Elwell's eyes are riveted to the anatomy that is temptingly displayed. 
SIDNEY (noting Elwell's preoccupation) ...and two miles for a pretty girl...? 
ELWELL 
He is unembarrassed at Sidney's all-too-accurate estimate. 
ELWELL (lightly) Three...even four... 
Elwell turns back towards the papers on his table, a zippered document case and some publications among which a columnist might search for scandal; among these is a magazine of semipornographic nature. 
ELWELL (continuing, casually) Then you're really washed up with Hunsecker...? 
REVERSE ANGLE 
The nature of Elwell's reading tastes is also not lost on Sidney.  With his eyes glancing at the magazine, Sidney now accepts the original offer to sit down.  He produces the slip of paper that Bartha rejected, offering it as illustration. 
SIDNEY This is how much I'm washed with J.J.... 
As Elwell reads, Sidney continues giving a passing scrutiny - apparently casual - to a picture of a girl on the magazine cover. 
SIDNEY Look, Otis, I make no brief for my bilious private life, but he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster. 
Elwell shows no undue enthusiasm for the item. 
RITA (bitingly) Yeah.  Otis Elwell.  The columnist. 
SIDNEY (nodding with emphasis) Yeah! 
RITA (aggressively) And he's a perfect stranger to me. 
SIDNEY (explosively) So take five minutes!  Get acquainted!  He's an important man - he's lonely - don't be dumb! 
Rita, who one shoe on, has begun to search for the other. 
RITA What do you want all of a sudden - Lady Godiva...?  Where's my other shoe? 
SIDNEY What kind of an act is this? 
Rita jumps to her feet.  Her righteous indignation is handicapped by the lop-sided stance caused by the lack of one shoe. 
RITA Don't you think I have any feelings? What am I?  A bowl of fruit?  A tangerine that peels in a minute? 
SIDNEY (caustic) I beg your pardon!  I turn myself inside out to help you and now I'm a heavy. (stooping swiftly as he discovers her shoe) Here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door! 
Contemptuously he thrusts the coat and the shoe into her arms.  The positive force of his manner gives the girl pause. There is a silence.  Rita searches for words to explain the offense to her sensibilities. 
RITA Sidney...I...I don't do this sort of thing... 
SIDNEY What sort of thing? 
RITA (emphatic) This sort of thing! 
SIDNEY (as emphatic) Listen, you need him for a favor, don't you!  And so do I!  I need his column--tonight. (then) Didn't you ask me to do something about your job?  Don't you have a kid in Military School? 
A pause.  Sidney has struck brutally home.  Rita's lower lip trembles. 
RITA You're a snake, Falco.  You're a louse, a real louse. 
Sidney's manner becomes swiftly sympathetic - but still urgent. 
SIDNEY (persuasively) Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job? 
Rita begins to waver, her moral indignation losing ground before Sidney's reminders of her dire necessity. 
RITA (remonstrating) A girl needs a little romancing before she - 
SIDNEY (cutting in) Next time I'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling! 
RITA (in a small voice) What would you think of me if - 
SIDNEY (cutting in to reassure her) Nothing I didn't think of you before. 
RITA (dryly, with significance) - that's what I mean! 
This attempt at humor signals to Sidney that he has brought her round.  He comes to her, pats her in an encouraging manner - to which she does not respond. 
He turns to the door, and picks up the glasses she has set down on the table behind it. 
SIDNEY (as he opens the door) How many snorts does it take to put you in that Tropical Island Mood? 
Sidney goes out. 
SIDNEY'S OFFICE 
Elwell overhears the last remark and as Sidney passes him, he winks.  While Sidney pours another drink, Elwell faces the doorway.  Rita comes into it, stands on the threshold. She is still far from enthusiastic. 
ELWELL (an inspiration) Havana!  That's where we met! 
Rita shakes her head morosely.  Sidney comes and puts a stiff drink into her hand.  Elwell raises the glass toasting the girl, encouraging her to drink.  Rita responds dimly. 
RITA (to Otis) Here's mud in your column! 
Sidney laughs, more from relief than from the joke. 
SIDNEY Blessings on thee, the both...well... Gotta run now.  See you two kids later! 
ELWELL (lightly) Hurry back. 
At the door Sidney takes cheerful leave of them. 
SIDNEY Don't do anything I wouldn't do. That gives you lots of leeway. 
HALLWAY OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENT 
Closing the door, Sidney seems pleased with himself.  He goes swiftly down the stairs. 
INT. SIDNEY'S OFFICE 
Rita remains on the threshold of the doorway between the two rooms.  There is an uncomfortable silence.  Elwell carries it off by coming to the girl, offering her a cigarette.  She accepts it.  Elwell studies her, smiling affectionately. Rita meets his eyes, avoids them again, then quietly offers the information: 
RITA Palm Springs.  Two years ago. 
Elwell begins to laugh.  Whatever the memory, it seems to amuse him vastly because he continues to laugh. 
ELWELL (delighted) That's right! 
Rita drinks.  She adds glumly: 
RITA Don't tell Sidney. 
Elwell continues to laugh as we... 
CUT TO: 
ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT 
Shooting east on 46th Street walks Sidney, coming out of the entrance of his apartment, towards CAMERA.  He is pleased with himself, satisfied with his ingenuity in dealing with Rita and Bartha. 
The streets behind him are dark and empty (it is about 3:00 in the morning).  CAMERA moves with Sidney as he steps briskly into the orange juice stand and lifts the receiver from the pay telephone.  There are no other customers at the counter, but the man behind is squeezing orange halves for the day ahead, piling up a mountain of empties some of which fall at Sidney's feet. 
EXT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 
CAMERA shoots up at the penthouse on the roof of the Brill Bldg.  The Budweiser sign is extinguished, a black silhouette against the sky.  A light burns in the window of Hunsecker's apartment. 
INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 
The ringing of the telephone is heard in the big room - an impressively furnished apartment which has a decor indicating that the owner thinks of himself in epic terms. 
CAMERA moves to discover Hunsecker in robe and pajamas, tapping at his typewriter.  Taking his leisurely time, he picks up the phone and eventually answers it. 
HUNSECKER (to phone) Yes...?  You sound happy, Sidney. Why should you be happy when I'm not? (then) I'll see the papers when I get up. How do you spell Picasso, the French painter? (languidly writes down Picasso on his scratch pad, answering a query, dryly) It's an item - I hear he goes out with three-eyed girls. 
ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT 
MARY Bribing me again? 
SIDNEY (uncomfortable under her scrutiny) And why should I bribe the woman who holds most of my heart? 
Mary is thoughtful.  Without malice, in a detached sort of way, she examines Sidney. 
MARY You're a real rascal, Sidney.  I'd certainly dislike you if I didn't like you.  You're an amusing boy, but there isn't a drop of respect in you for anything alive - you're too immersed in the theology of making a fast buck.  Not that I don't sometimes feel that you yearn for something better... 
Sidney finds this analysis hard to take.  Again he tries to laugh his way out of it. 
SIDNEY (cynical) Mary, don't try to sell me the Brooklyn Bridge.  I happen to know it belongs to the Dodgers. 
Mary, smiling, decides "to let him off the hook".  She takes the spike and the column and passes it across to Sidney's side of the desk, as she returns briskly to her business. 
MARY (affably) I don't mind you looking at the proof of the column in advance, as long as J.J. doesn't know.  But don't do it like a boy stealing gum from a slot machine. 
Sidney doesn't like this; but, on the other hand, he does want to look at the column.  After only a momentary struggle, he picks the column off the spike and reads. 
SIDNEY Who put this item in about the comic? (reading) "If there's a more hilarious funny man around than Herbie Temple at the Palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name.  We were too busy screaming." Does this Temple have a press agent? 
MARY No.  It's one of J.J.'s occasional beau gestes.  Evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug. 
He goes to the door, grinning. 
SIDNEY What's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates? 
MARY Let's wait till Christmas - it's more legitimate then. 
She looks after Sidney, thinks about him for a moment.  Then she types. 
EXT. PALACE THEATRE - DAY 
Sidney comes down 47th Street from Broadway, making for the stage door entrance of the Palace theatre.  He walks confidently into the alleyway, paying no attention to the old doorman gossiping with the shoeshine boy at the chairs next to the entrance.  The doorman turns, protesting: 
DOORMAN (calling out) Hey! 
LAP DISSOLVE TO: 
Sidney, without halting, looks back towards the Doorman, addressing him with the patronizing manner of a superior. 
SIDNEY Herbit Temple here yet? 
DOORMAN Yeah, but you can't come in now! 
SIDNEY I'm in, Sonny Boy! 
He is already on his way into doorway. 
INT. BACKSTAGE OF PALACE THEATRE 
The movie will soon by finished and the comedian who opens the stage show is ready and made-up in the wings.  He sits with his agent, (AL EVANS) a small, worried, bespectacled man, who waves an unlighted cigar as big as himself.  They converse in loud whispers, talking against the muffled and echoing sound of the film sound track, silhouetted against the ghostly, distorted images on the big screen seen at a weird angle behind them. 
EVANS I didn't waste words, Herbie, take my word.  I says, "look, Figo, I'm not selling you a dozen eggs, I'm selling you HERBIE TEMPLE", I says, so don't gimme your lip! 
The comedian, Herbie Temple, looks up.  Sidney comes through a fire-proof door which separates the stage from the corridors to dressing room.  In background two chorus girls in costume are squeezed into a telephone booth.  Sidney joins the comedian and the agent; he smiles to the comedian, while he addresses the agent. 
SIDNEY Hiya, Al! 
The agent looks from Sidney to Temple, surprised and displeased. 
EVANS Since when did you two get acquainted? 
Sidney has clearly never met Evans; blandly he chooses to regard the agent's remark as an introduction; he offers his hand with generous amiability. 
SIDNEY How do you do, Mr. Temple... 
The comic accepts the hand doubtfully. 
EVANS (uncertain) Delighted. 
SIDNEY I'm Sidney Falco. 
TEMPLE (still dubious) Yeah, delighted... 
Evans stands up, warns the comic. 
EVANS Watch this guy, Herbie, he's a press agent. 
Temple's smile congeals. 
TEMPLE You watch him, Al, I s...s...stutter! 
SIDNEY (in no way discouraged) Temple, I caught your act the other night and - 
TEMPLE Did you now?  On which bounce? 
SIDNEY - and I just had to drop by and tell you how great I thought you were. 
TEMPLE (dryly) Cheers.  What time is it, Al? 
EVANS You got ten minutes. (to Sidney) Hope you don't mind, Falco: we're busy and if - 
Sidney stands up. 
SIDNEY No, I don't mind.  I'm busy too. 
TEMPLE (scowling) Good!  We're all off to Utica, so excuse me, Mr. Frannis-on-the- Portisan. 
Sidney moves toward the doorway onto the corridor.  The chorus girls have now vacated the phone booth. 
SIDNEY But can I ask one impertinent question here?  With no criticism intended, because I know, Al, you earn your ten percent, how come you let a sock act like Herbie Temple tip-toe through town without a publicity build...? 
Smiling wise, Evans shakes his head. 
EVANS We're not buying it, Falco - no fish today. 
Sidney presses, as if annoyed. 
SIDNEY I'm not selling.  I'm just curious, that's all. 
Temple turns away from Sidney, leaving him to Evans. 
TEMPLE Answer the man, Al, if he asks you a question.  Quick, before he thinks up another! 
Evans moves to Sidney, trying to shepherd him out the way he came. 
EVANS Mr. Temple doesn't believe in press agents - does that answer you something? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
STEVE (watchfully, to Sidney) I thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Favoring Sidney.  He pauses. 
SIDNEY Why me...? 
STEVE Why not you? 
SIDNEY That's your idea of logic?  I tell the Judge I didn't murder the man - the Judge says, "Why not you?" 
STEVE Only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or Hunsecker or both. 
SIDNEY (explosively) Dallas, ask your own manager - he's standing here like a pained wolfhound - Hunsecker and Elwell are enemies to the knife.  So how do you get him doing J.J. a favor? 
STEVE (quickly) It is a favor, isn't it? 
SIDNEY (as quickly) According to you, yeah. (continuing rapidly and with heat) Dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty!  I don't like you, comma, but neither do I go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the Reds.  Also, since we're talking repulsive, J.J. won't like this for two cents!  Don't give me that look, Dallas - J.J. believes in fair play.  And secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend! 
RESUME REVERSE ANGLE 
Sidney's manner is a little too vigorous. (In adopting an aggressive tone, he is really trying to needle Steve.) Steve, though on the verge of losing his temper, is sharp enough to notice the point: 
STEVE You're talking very fast. 
SIDNEY (expostulating) Well, I'll tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya? (wheeling to Sally) How do you like it?  He comes to my office and - 
D'ANGELO 
Sensing the danger, D'Angelo moves forward soothingly between them. 
D'ANGELO Boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you're over excited, Steve and - 
STEVE (sharply) Don't apologize for me, Frank! 
D'ANGELO ...excited with good reason, I wanted to say. (to Sidney) Because this endangers the future of the whole quintet... 
SIDNEY (lightly) Should I cry...? 
Steve, with a glare at both men, goes to the phone on Sally's desk.  He dials. 
D'ANGELO (continuing) ...People catch on quick to such an item.  Van Cleve already called me - he's firing the quintet. 
SIDNEY Then what are you doing here?  Go over there and fight!  If Van Cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth! 
In background Steve speaks quietly into the phone: 
STEVE I want to speak to Miss Hunsecker, please. 
D'ANGELO (replying to Sidney's question) We're on our way there now... 
SIDNEY (who has wheeled on Steve) What are you calling her for...? 
STEVE 
Sidney's reaction to the mention of Susan's name gives Steve food for thought.  While he waits for Susan to be summoned to the phone, he studies Sidney. 
STEVE (to Sidney) I'm the boyfriend, remember?  I hope one day she'll be my wife... (into the phone, gently) This is Steve, Susie.  Don't be alarmed, Susie, but I want you to look at Elwell's column in The Record...today...No, about me... 
INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - SUSAN'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Susan is on the phone.  Listening to what Steve says, she is frightened - almost too frightened; it is as if, in some curious sense, she had been expecting this blow.  It brings an echo of an earlier tragedy. 
SUSAN A smear?...What...What kind of smear...?  Where are you? 
INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT 
Steve is on the phone in foreground, the others watching him. In particular, Sally, who stands near Steve, is studying him with obvious sympathy.  She looks slowly towards Sidney. 
STEVE (to the phone) We're on our way to the Elysian Room to dicker with Van Cleve - he's fired us already.  I'll call you later, dear... 'Bye!... 
He hangs up quietly, looks at Sidney and walks towards the door. 
STEVE Come on, Frank. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As the door closes behind Steve, Frank follows, more slowly. As D'Angelo reaches the door, he pauses with his hand on the doorknob and turns back to study Sidney. 
SIDNEY 
He feels uneasy under D'Angelo's scrutiny.  Sally, in background, is also watching Sidney. 
SIDNEY (to D'Angelo) What are you looking at...? 
D'ANGELO 
He does not answer for a moment.  The unspoken accusation in his look is very clear.  Then: 
D'ANGELO (quietly) The ugly world, Sidney... (a pause) If I told Steve what I really think, he'd tear your head off... 
RESUME SIDNEY 
He brazens it out. 
SIDNEY (sneering) Tell him. 
RESUME D'ANGELO 
D'Angelo shakes his head. 
D'ANGELO No.  I'm interested in his future. 
D'Angelo goes slowly out. 
RESUME SIDNEY 
He hesitates before turning towards Sally (because he realizes that this exchange with D'Angelo must have confirmed Sally in her suspicions). 
SALLY 
Her face shows that Sidney is right.  Sally is deeply hurt, disillusioned. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Sidney turns to her, challenging. 
SIDNEY What's the matter? 
D'Angelo stops, halted by an expression which he sees in Steve's face. 
STEVE 
He is looking through the glass doors of the TV Theatre, no longer listening to D'Angelo's words; his face has hardened in anger. 
INT. TV THEATRE FOYER 
From Steve's viewpoint.  Sidney has come out of the curtained entrance to the auditorium.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Steve in foreground.  With a movement that suggests his annoyance at discovering Sidney present, Steve jerks open the glass door and moves in. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Susan is waiting in the foyer.  She is standing in a position where she has not been able to see Steve until he enters; now she moves forward to greet him.  As soon as she is near him, she speaks in a quiet, urgent manner: 
SUSAN (in an undertone) Steve, before we go in - I'd like to... 
But she, too, is halted as Steve lays a hand on her arm. Seeing his look over her shoulder, she turns... 
SIDNEY 
He is already strolling forward to join them.  CAMERA PANS with him to include Susie, Steve and D'Angelo. 
SIDNEY Hey, Susie - This is a real surprise -- not one but three. J.J.'s just finishing up his rehearsal. 
STAGE 
Hunsecker comes forward to the front of the stage looking towards... 
STEVE, SUSAN, D'ANGELO AND SIDNEY 
In the group that comes down the aisle of the empty theatre. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He studies them, then calls out: 
HUNSECKER Looks like a wedding. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Hunsecker back to CAMERA in foreground; he begins to whistle The Wedding March to the rhythm of Steve and Susan's walk. 
STEVE 
He breaks the rhythm of his stride, his face rigid. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He descends to meet them; his manner is full of welcome. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Susan nervously makes the introduction - Steve is nervous; D'Angelo hangs behind warily; Sidney is in background. 
SUSAN Steve, you remember my brother... 
STEVE & HUNSECKER (together) Of course. 
Steve shakes the hand that the smiling Hunsecker gives. 
HUNSECKER Well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble... 
STEVE You've been very kind about it, Mr. Hunsecker. HUNSECKER Give Susie credit for that.  I took her word that there was nothing to the smear.  Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today.  That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too. 
STEVE (quietly) Mr. Hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear.  You have my sincere word... 
HUNSECKER (nodding judicially) I'll by that, son.  Now, you owe ME a favor. (pausing; to Susan) Be good to my kid sister... 
SIDNEY (solemnly) Yeah, she's had a peck of trouble for a kid... 
Hunsecker flicks a look at Sidney.  No one else, warier by the minute, knows what to say.  Hunsecker purrs onward: 
HUNSECKER Susie likes to keep her girlish secrets.  But in her heart of hearts I imagine, Dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. Now, what about YOU, son?  Not just tom-catting around...I hope? 
SUSAN (quickly) J.J., Steve isn't... 
Hunsecker cuts her off with lazy good nature: 
HUNSECKER Take it easy, Susie.  He wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern.  Would you, son? 
STEVE (pausing, quietly) No, I wouldn't... 
HUNSECKER (nodding) Serious as a deacon...I like it.  I like your style, son!  In a world of old rags and bones, I like it! For instance, take Sidney. 
Hunsecker crosses toward Sidney. 
HUNSECKER (CONT'D) If Sidney got anywhere near Susie I'd break a bat over Sidney's head! (smiling faintly) Sidney lives so much in a moral twilight that, when I said you were coming here, he predicted disaster. You wouldn't take my favor -- you'd chew up the job, he said, and spit it right back in my face! (sniffing) Any truth in that...? 
D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSAN 
Steve is thrown for a loss momentarily; Frank steps in. 
D'ANGELO No, Mr. Hunsecker, and if I can amplify -- 
HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
HUNSECKER (motionless) Don't amplify. 
RESUME D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSAN 
D'ANGELO Steve wantsa thank you for this favor.  He -- 
GROUP SHOT 
SIDNEY (provocatively) Frank, you don't listen!  J.J. just told you to shut your mouth! 
STEVE (hotly) Don't you think it's about time you shut yours?  Who are you to tell a man like Frank D'Angelo to shut up?! 
D'ANGELO (warningly) Steve, that isn't important -- 
But Steve, on a heated rip, has turned to Hunsecker: 
STEVE Does he have to be here in our hair? 
HUNSECKER 
HUNSECKER Why, has he bothered you before? 
STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN 
HUNSECKER Susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks.  Go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, dear. 
STEVE Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak? 
HUNSECKER May I lift my eyebrows?  What is this?  What are you trying to do? 
STEVE (strongly) I'm trying to get Susie to stand up to you.  But your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to speak! 
HUNSECKER Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden pratt! 
SUSAN 
Suddenly Susan lets loose, with restrained nervous energy; she is near to tears. 
SUSAN Steve, if only for my sake, I want this stopped!  And the same goes for you, too, J.J.! 
HUNSECKER 
He interjects. 
HUNSECKER (contritely) Susie, I'm sorry if--- 
RESUME SUSAN 
SUSAN (bitterly) Sometimes I think ALL men are fools!... 
Restraining tears, she runs up the steps to the stage. 
STEVE, HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
Steve looks after her.  Sidney watches intently.  Hunsecker's smile is frostily taunting: 
HUNSECKER You see, Dallas, a plague on both our houses... (then) We may have to call this game on account of darkness... 
Steve turns a blank-eyed stare at him.  Tension gone, a slow mumbling fatigue has set in.  Hunsecker plays it light: 
HUNSECKER If looks could kill, I'm dead... 
STEVE (slowly) No, I don't care about you -- you're fantastic.  My whole interest, if it's not too late, is in Susie...and how to undo what you've done to her... 
HUNSECKER (smiling) And what have I done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately?  Sidney, you were right -- the boy's a dilly. 
STEVE (stung) Why?  Because I don't like the way you toy with human lives? - Your contempt and malice?  Because I won't be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it's crippled Susie...?  You think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, Mr. Hunsecker, you are a national disgrace! 
HUNSECKER (blandly) Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns.  So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day... 
He turns and stares away, but Steve stops him with--- 
STEVE But my day with Susie isn't over yet and-- 
HUNSECKER (cold) Ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell! 
STAGE 
Hunsecker comes up the steps from the auditorium, Sidney following closely behind.  In background, beyond, Steve and D'Angelo are walking up the aisle to the exit.  CAMERA TRACKS CLOSE on Sidney and Hunsecker.  Hunsecker's face is rigid.  Sidney, close at his elbow, whispers: 
SIDNEY (softly) You did it, J.J., you did it good... 
Sidney is full of confidence.  But Hunsecker barely hears him (Hunsecker has been hurt very deeply by the boy's attack; in particular, by the appalling fear that what Steve has said is the kind of thing which Susan may also secretly believe.) 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Susan is still standing in the wings.  Mary is with her, obviously sympathetic.  The girl is drying her eyes with Kleenex, and Mary glances at her employer with a look of reproach.  Hunsecker walks round the table, obviously trying to approach Susan; seeing this, Susan turns away and moves further from him.  Hunsecker stops. 
HUNSECKER 
There is some emotion in his face as he looks towards the girl.  More gently, he moves forward past CAMERA... 
SUSAN 
Sensing the approach of Hunsecker behind her, she moves away again; she is still crying, but is trying to recover. Presently Hunsecker approaches her again.  He speaks very gently, soothingly, comforting... 
HUNSECKER (softly) You in a mood, Susie, to run over to Milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks? 
SUSAN (a small voice) No.  I'm going home. 
Hunsecker again tries to come nearer to her. 
HUNSECKER Want Sidney to drive you over? 
Ignoring the shake of her head, he calls to Sidney. 
HUNSECKER Drive Susie home. 
HUNSECKER 
Again we see some emotion in his face as he studies the girl. His eyes flick towards the stage behind him where Sidney stands watching.  He moves gently forward and then speaks in a quiet voice which reveals how desperately he needs her reassurance: 
HUNSECKER Susie...I...I'd have to take it very much amiss if you ever saw that boy again. 
SUSAN 
After a pause, she turns towards him; she looks him straight in the face. 
SUSAN (levelly) I'll never see him again. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He seems to take this as a gesture of forgiveness from her. Now he touches her.  His need for her is apparent; he tries to reach her, tries to find an excuse to embrace her.  She submits to this very passively. 
SUSAN 
A VERY CLOSE SHOT.  We see the effort with which she is controlling herself. 
RESUME TWO SHOT 
Satisfied with this crumb of affection from his sister, Hunsecker lets her go.  Susan moves away, still avoiding his eyes.  Then she goes off towards the steps down into the auditorium.  Sidney looks at Hunsecker, then after Susan and follows her. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He goes back to Mary and the script.  He instructs her: 
HUNSECKER Call Van Cleve.  Tell him he was right.  Tell him I said the Dallas boys are not worthy of his club. 
Poring over the typewritten pages, he senses Mary's eyes on him.  He speaks to her quietly without raising his head and there is still an undertone of feeling in his voice: 
HUNSECKER (without looking up) Mary...for Susie's own good...don't give her misplaced sympathy... 
Mary says nothing.  Hunsecker gathers his papers and with a visible effort to resume his public personality turns towards the machinery of the television broadcast in background. 
HUNSECKER Am I supposed to forget how that boy talked to me today? 
RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
Sidney senses a warning in Hunsecker's manner.  He protests: 
SIDNEY J.J., is he worthy of a second glance from a man like you?  Is he, I mean?... 
HUNSECKER 
From Sidney's viewpoint.  Pausing during the process of eating, Hunsecker reaches into an inside pocket. 
HUNSECKER Brief epitaph: "The boy was talking when he should have been listening." (then) Bite on this. 
CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney as Hunsecker tosses in front of him an envelope.  Sidney opens it, extracts two steamship tickets. 
SIDNEY Steamship tickets? HUNSECKER (as he eats) For the next sailing of the Mary. Susan's run down - she's never been abroad and as you so cogently put it, I'm not made of iron. 
Sidney slowly pushes the envelope back to Hunsecker, who leaves it lying on the table before him. 
SIDNEY That's good.  Now that louse is outa Susie's hair for good. 
SIDNEY 
He has an instinct to laugh; but something tells him not to. 
HUNSECKER 
As Sidney makes no response, Hunsecker slowly, carefully continues in a voice which is dangerously soft: 
HUNSECKER I want that boy taken apart. 
SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  Sidney puts down his fork.  He sees now that the issue is serious and must be faced. 
SIDNEY (seriously) Why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms?  Not to mention that this time Susie would know who shot the arrow... 
HUNSECKER (interjecting quietly) She knows now. 
SIDNEY (quickly) Why give her real proof?  You nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, J.J., - but she almost followed him out the window.  What do you want - a chronic invalid? 
HUNSECKER 
He wants no advice from Sidney.  He interrupts with quiet savagery. 
HUNSECKER I know how to handle Susie.  You just handle the boy, Sidney... (scribbles on scratch pad) ...preferably tonight. (pushes pad across to Sidney) 
SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER 
SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  Sidney feels sick. 
SIDNEY Why, what's tomorrow - a holiday? 
CAMERA MOVES CLOSER as Sidney picks scratch pad up.  We can read two words: "Get Kello". 
SIDNEY I think I'll go home - maybe I left my sense of humor in another suit. 
HUNSECKER 
Hunsecker finishes eating.  During the ensuing speech, which he begins quietly and sensibly, Hunsecker's venomous feelings are unexpectedly betrayed. 
HUNSECKER You've got that God-given brain - learn to use it!  Do you think it's a personal matter with me, this boy? Are you telling me I see things in terms of personal pique?  Don't you see that today that boy wiped his feet on the choice, on the predilections of sixty million men and women of the greatest country in the world!  If you had any morals yourself, you would understand the immorality of that boy's stand today!  It was not me he criticized - it was my readers!... 
CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney.  Hunsecker manages to control himself; he reaches with nervous fingers toward his scribbling pad. 
SIDNEY 
Sidney's face has tightened.  He has begun now to realize the extent of this man's megalomania.  After a moment he says: 
SIDNEY I'm leaving, J.J.... 
HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
SHOOTING ACROSS Sidney onto Hunsecker. 
HUNSECKER (a quiet warning) Don't remove the gangplank, Sidney; you may wanna get back on board. 
SIDNEY 
Sidney feels the chill of despair upon him. 
HUNSECKER This crab gumbo - terrific! 
HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  A waiter has come to serve the next course.  Hunsecker appears relaxed, but Sidney is sightlessly staring at the piece of paper in his hand.  He speaks with a quaver in his voice, for he has worked hard to make a life which is now ready to relinquish: 
SIDNEY J.J., it's one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...I'd rather have my freedom. 
HUNSECKER The man in jail is always for freedom. 
Sidney begins to get up from the table. 
SIDNEY (as he rises) Except, if you'll excuse me, I'm not in jail. 
Hunsecker looks up at Sidney. 
HUNSECKER 
From Sidney's viewpoint. 
HUNSECKER (easily) Sure you're in jail, Sidney. You're a prisoner of your own fears, of your own greed and ambition; you're in jail. 
SIDNEY 
From Hunsecker's viewpoint. 
SIDNEY J.J.  If you're trying to - 
He leans over Hunsecker and the CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker in f.g. 
HUNSECKER (interrupting) You, little boy, don't know who you are!  Talking around corners with the big shots, ten dollar dinners - fourteen suits and cashmere coats - you tell yourself THAT'S who you are!  Later you won't know who you are without a penthouse on upper Park!  But underneath it all, ratting around from day to day, you DO know who you are!  You're a fearful, ignorant nobody - a poor wop kid from the slums of Philly - hoping nobody else finds it out! 
SIDNEY 
A CLOSE UP.  He knows the truth of what is said.  But he takes refuge in quiet retaliation: 
SIDNEY A little hunch occurs to me - you have just painted a self-portrait. You know who YOU are because you scare people - that's what you've got against this boy.  He - 
SUSAN Steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...I couldn't go all the way...I failed you... (a pause) Will you forgive me? (then) Have I lost you, Steve?  Have I...? 
STEVE Well, maybe I was wrong, too... But there's no doubt, Susie, that we have to face some serious things... 
SUSAN No one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did. 
STEVE (quietly, to the point) But you didn't do much about it, Susie.  You walked out, and there I was...solo...and not too good at that. 
SUSAN I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve -- for OUR sake, I mean. 
STEVE 
STEVE Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too.  But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa!  By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears... 
SUSAN 
This accusation is made lightly, in passing.  But Susan reacts to it, trying to interject: 
SUSAN Steve, I... 
STEVE (overriding her) But I don't care about that now. He knew what he was doing today. He was laying down the conditions under which he MIGHT consent to our marriage - if I would bend to every whim of his, like Sidney!  I couldn't do that, Susie... 
SUSAN 
After a pause, she says: 
SUSAN You're saying goodbye, aren't you? 
SUSAN AND STEVE 
Steve flares up. 
STEVE No!  I'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother! 
SUSAN (wrenched) But, please, Steve, please - one step at a time!  I was born only yesterday!... 
STEVE (pausing, softer) I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice.  I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you.  I know what type - he's my old man all over again! 
Susan, pathetically despairing, fingers the handle of her coffee cup, which she has not touched.  The coat slips from her shoulders... 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Steve stoops to pick it up, replaces it on her shoulders. 
STEVE This beautiful coat is more than just a coat... I hate it!  It's a mink straight-jacket! 
Susan turns to him.  She is deflated, lacking all will power. 
SUSAN (drooping) Steve, I feel exhausted...what do you want me to do? 
STEVE (not sure of himself) Not what you're doing now.  At least don't ask me - don't ask him. You're fighting for your life! What do YOU want to do? 
SUSAN (pausing, woodenly) You are saying goodbye, aren't you...? 
STEVE 
He reacts vigorously, protesting: 
STEVE (impatiently) That's fish four days old...!  I can't buy it, Susie!  Right out of that mouth I love, like you're a ventriloquist's dummy, your BROTHER is saying goodbye!  Gee!...you want me to be honest, don't you?! 
SUSAN 
A despairing cry: 
SUSAN No, Steve, I don't.  I don't.  Not if it KILLS me I don't!... 
SUSAN AND STEVE 
It takes her a moment to recover.  When she does so, she gets up, leaving the counter. 
SUSAN (without luster) Let's not talk any more...you have to go... 
She moves towards the exit into the hallway; he follows. 
HALLWAY 
D'Angelo is waiting for them.  Silently they come up to join him, very depressed.  Susan looks towards D'Angelo, speaks a little pathetically: 
SUSAN Goodbye, Mr. D'Angelo.  Take care of Steve. 
D'ANGELO (softly) I will, Miss Hunsecker. 
He walks a little way down the corridor, again leaving them alone. 
SUSAN AND STEVE 
She smiles at him, trying to smile, trying to make a joke. 
SUSAN Say something funny...Mr. Hasenfeffer. 
Steve steps to her quickly, kisses her.  Then he turns and swiftly walks off down the corridor without a backward glance.  He goes past D'Angelo, who walks quietly after him towards the exit in background. 
SUSAN 
She remains just in the attitude in which he left her. 
EXT. BRILL BUILDING - NIGHT 
Steve comes out of the door, pauses without looking back. D'Angelo comes up behind him. 
STEVE (after a moment) Look back, Frank, see if she's still standing there... 
D'Angelo looks discreetly over his shoulder. 
SUSAN 
From D'Angelo's point of view.  She is still standing where Steve left her. 
RESUME STEVE AND D'ANGELO 
D'Angelo turns back to Steve. 
D'ANGELO Still there... 
Steve, still without looking back, walks up the street; CAMERA TRACKING WITH THEM. 
D'ANGELO (with sympathy) Not that I don't like her - she's a very lovely person, but who can tell?  A year from now you might thank your stars that it turned out this way. (changing the subject) By the way, Robard said that... 
Steve, his manner full of pain, stops. 
CAMERA moves with Sidney as he walks towards the doorway. There he hesitates again; he looks back into the club. 
DALLAS 
From Sidney's viewpoint.  A LONG SHOT of Steve on the bandstand.  CAMERA PANS deliberately towards the coatrack in f.g.  A group of newly arrived musicians walk into the shot, setting down their instrument cases and starting to hang up their coats. (Clearly, Sidney could not now return to the coat rack - even if he decided that he did want to undo his handiwork.) 
RESUME SIDNEY 
CAMERA, shooting out across the square, frames Sidney in f.g. Facing the inevitable, Sidney turns away, walks across the sidewalk.  On the other side of the square the headlamps of the car blink twice.  Sidney walks towards it. 
POLICE CAR 
A big man gets out of the seat next to the driver.  As he comes round the hood of the car, the headlamps of a passing truck illuminate him, identifying HARRY KELLO.  CAMERA PANS as he walks to meet Sidney. 
CLOSER ANGLE 
Kello pauses as Sidney comes up to him, asks affably: 
KELLO What's all the rush?  You said three o'clock. 
SIDNEY (glancing back towards club) He's leaving early.  After this "set".  He'll be out in a couple of minutes... 
They wait for a moment, listening to the sound of the music in the distance.  It is a blues number (GOODBYE BABY) Kello hums nonchalantly; Sidney glances at him with irritation, finding something gruesome in his relaxed manner. 
INT. POLICE CAR 
There are two plainclothes policemen inside, one at the wheel, the other in the back seat.  The latter leans forward to ask the former: 
1ST POLICEMAN What's this deal tonight? 
MURPH (the 2nd policeman) One of the lieutenant's "surprise parties", I think. 
Murph's tone shows obvious repugnance.  The 1st Policeman broods for a moment; he adds in a quiet, but viciously resentful manner: 
1ST POLICEMAN One of these days I'd like to turn in my badge and tangle with "POPSIE" myself - he's no good. 
RESUME KELLO AND SIDNEY 
Sidney, increasingly uncomfortable, turns to Kello. 
SIDNEY Can't you wait up the block?  It's not going to look so good, right in front of the club... 
To Kello this is a great joke.  He laughs, enjoying Sidney's uneasiness.  He begins to "cat and mouse" Sidney. 
KELLO (heavily humorous) It's nice, Sidney, that you give me this tip... 
SIDNEY (interjecting) - He's got them on him. 
KELLO (solemnly nodding his approval) ...And he's got them on him.  I appreciate a thing like that - I appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city. 
Sidney, annoyed at this sarcasm, moves past Kello, not deigning to respond.  As he goes by, Kello grasps him forcibly by the arm. 
KELLO What's your hurry, Snooks? 
CAMERA HAS PANNED to SHOOT towards the car out of which emerges a second detective. 
SIDNEY (revolted) Take your hands off, Kello... 
Kello, holding Sidney, turns towards the second detective in background. 
KELLO Murph, how do you like this face? Why, I'll be darned -- it's melting! Something got you scared, Sidney...? Listen, rectify me a certain thing. Wasn't you kidding, Snooks, when you told J.J. I was fat...? 
Sidney jerks his arm away, rapidly retreats a few yards, a safe distance from Kello.  CAMERA PANS with him to the bottom of the steps. 
SIDNEY Sleep in peace, Kello -- you're skinny -- but J.J. says you sweat! 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Sidney in foreground, Kello and Murph beyond.  Kello laughs; but obviously he would like to be nearer to Sidney.  Perhaps to detain Sidney, Kello drawls: 
KELLO Is that a fact?  He's a dilly, ain't he?  By the by, what did he have against this boy? 
SIDNEY He goes out with girls. 
KELLO Well, I'll be darned.  And what does J.J. think he SHOULD do? 
SIDNEY (impudently) Go out with DIFFERENT girls! 
KELLO 
He moves forward a little. 
KELLO (softly now) I get the peculiar impression, Snooks, that you don't like me. Could I be wrong? 
SIDNEY 
He turns swiftly and goes up the stairs out of Kello's reach. 
SIDNEY (as he goes) You could be right, you fat slob? 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
From half-way up the stairs.  Sidney comes up the steps two at a time.  Kello and Murphy are seen beyond. 
KELLO (with a guffaw) Come back here, Sidney...I wanna chastise you!... 
FROM THE BRIDGE 
Sidney reaches the top.  He comes along the pedestrian walk up to CAMERA, slowing down he turns across the rail and looks down towards the square.  CAMERA MOVES to take in the scene in WIDE ANGLE: Sidney in foreground, the police car and detectives below, the entrance to Robard's across the square.  Sidney waits.  In the distance we can hear the music of Dallas' last number coming to an end. 
INT. ROBARD'S CLUB 
The last bars of the number.  Enthusiastic applause. 
STEVE 
He responds to the ovation, nicely but a little wearily.  He gets down off the stand.  There is too much noise to hear his parting words to his fellow musicians, but it is clear that he is urging them to stay without him.  He walks off towards the entrance to the club. 
D'ANGELO 
D'Angelo leaves the bar, in search of Steve.  He sees... 
INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT 
Steve is putting his guitar away in the case, collecting his overcoat.  In this gesture he is arrested by the sound of D'Angelo's voice over scene. 
D'ANGELO (O.S.) (urgently) Steve! 
Steve, mildly startled, looks up. 
D'Angelo, with his face contorted in grief and bitterness, can no longer refuse to answer her. 
D'ANGELO (in a broken voice) He's in the hospital...He's under arrest, too... They planted reefer cigarettes on him...in his overcoat pocket. 
Susan is becoming hysterical. 
SUSAN (wildly) Where is he...I want to go to him... 
D'Angelo recovers his self control.  There is force and authority in his voice as he insists: 
D'ANGELO Miss Hunsecker, if you see him again they might...might kill him. 
Susan is sobered by his seriousness. 
SUSAN (slowly) Who is "they"? 
D'ANGELO Don't ask foolish questions. (then) Tell your brother I'm a sensible man.  He understands only two things - power-politics and homage - tell him I came tonight to pay homage! 
INT. HALLWAY - HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE 
The elevator door opens and Sidney steps out: He crosses to the door of the apartment, pushes the button.  The bell is heard ringing inside.  While he waits, Sidney produces a handkerchief, dabs his face, straightens his tie; clearly he is trying to sober up.  He goes to the bell push to ring again.  Now he notices something that had escaped him before: the door is not quite shut.  He pushes it open. 
INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE 
From inside.  Sidney hesitates, enters tentatively. 
LONGER ANGLE 
The apartment appears empty.  Only one light is lit; the place is eerie. 
RESUME SIDNEY 
Sidney closes the door, goes into the main living room, CAMERA pans with him.  Something chills him, he calls softly, "J.J.?" 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Sidney walks towards the study, there is nobody there either. He goes back towards the stairs to the upper floor; in doing so he repasses the door of Susan's bedroom, sees that it is half open, goes to look in. 
INT. BEDROOM 
From Sidney's viewpoint.  The bed has been slept in but is unoccupied.  The room is empty. 
On the seat at the foot of the bed is a drawer that has been pulled out of the wardrobe; it contains a collection of miscellaneous objects, a snapshot album, letters, souvenirs, disarranged as if someone had been looking at them. 
SIDNEY 
He looks at the empty room, disturbed. 
RESUME BEDROOM 
The curtains of the window onto the terrace are blowing: the window is open.  Sidney walks into shot form behind CAMERA. He calls: 
SIDNEY Susan? 
Susan steps into the room from the terrace, confronting Sidney.  She is dressed, wearing the fur coat over a skirt and blouse.  Her manner is very strange; the effect of the drugs, no doubt. 
RESUME SIDNEY 
Sidney is very uncomfortable in her presence; Susan is the last person he wants to have conversation with. 
SIDNEY Where's J.J.? 
He retreats across the threshold of the bedroom, into the outer room. 
RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY 
She walks forwards. 
SUSAN He isn't here... 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Sidney stands back to let her pass. 
SIDNEY But he called and said... 
Susan comes out of the bedroom, walks past CAMERA. 
SUSAN No, I called... 
He studies the girl, says nothing. 
LONGER ANGLE 
She walks listlessly across the room, moving like a somnambulist. 
SUSAN Mr. D'Angelo phoned about Steve...I went down to the hospital, but they wouldn't let me in.  He promised to keep in touch with me - Mr. D'Angelo, I mean... 
RESUME SIDNEY 
He watches her cautiously, not sure of how to deal with her. 
SIDNEY (carefully) It's all over town about Dallas... (moving towards her) How is he? 
SUSAN 
A CLOSE UP.  Susan's expression is blank; her eyes are unseeing. 
SUSAN He's...unconscious... 
There is a tone of great despair in her voice.  Presently, she recovers, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney beyond. She glances at him. 
SUSAN I...I gave Steve up... (then) Why did you and J.J. do it? 
RESUME SIDNEY 
Sidney looks at her, tensely.  Her voice is so calm, so certain that Sidney finds it difficult to play-act innocence. He protests a little too loudly: 
SIDNEY Susie, if I get your meaning, you're pitching very wild balls. What - 
RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY 
Susan interrupts, with a simplicity which is damaging. 
SUSAN Don't bother to lie, Sidney. (moving away) I don't care anymore. 
LONGER ANGLE 
Sidney decides that it is wiser not to argue.  He assumes a tolerant sympathy.  He moves towards her. 
SIDNEY I was trying to build her up, not tear her down - 
HUNSECKER (viciously) Is that why you were romancing her, you mutt! (turning back to Susan) Let's call it quits, my dear.  I'd like it fine if you found another home.  That means the front door is open!  Pack your things, rent a moving van and GIT! (pacing the room) And as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage!  You're incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men! 
Susan is staring sightlessly at the floor near Hunsecker's feet.  After a moment she turns and moves to the door of her bedroom; her walk is a little unsteady; she goes inside, closes the door in Hunsecker's face. 
INT. BEDROOM 
With the door closed, she leans against it as if afraid of falling.  She gropes for the door handle, finds the key and turns it. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY 
Hunsecker is studying the closed door. 
HUNSECKER (to himself) Another crisis past. (walking away) She'll be fast asleep in five minutes, loaded with those headache pills... 
SIDNEY 
Sidney seems not to hear this remark.  He is concentrated on the door; he moves hesitantly towards it, apprehensive. CAMERA includes Hunsecker in background. 
HUNSECKER Now we'll get to you, Sidney. (turning to Sidney) As far as the column is concerned - tonight you have forfeited every ethical consideration I ever felt for you... 
Much more concerned with his anxiety for Susan, Sidney interrupts. 
SIDNEY (cutting in) Look, J.J., I'll grant you anything you want. (as Hunsecker is about to interrupt) Susie's off her rocker tonight!  Go in and see what she's doing!  Go in and talk to her quietly - unless you want a corpse! 
Sidney's conviction is impressive.  But Hunsecker is unwilling to admit the danger, he continues. 
HUNSECKER (acid) Let me finish what I started to say - 
Seeing that Hunsecker is not taking his advice, Sidney strides swiftly to the door of Susan's bedroom.  He knocks on it. 
INT. BEDROOM 
SHOOTING TOWARDS the door.  Susan is sitting on the bed in foreground.  In a methodical, hypnotic way, she is destroying the contents of the drawer, tearing letters into small fragments.  Sidney's voice is heard outside: "Susie!" Susan appears not to hear it; CAMERA TRACKS closer to her. Sidney's voice is heard again, louder: "Susie!" Susan turns sharply towards the door. 
SUSAN 
A CLOSE UP.  Susan rises to her feet, staring at the door. She begins to back away from it. 
RESUME REVERSE ANGLE 
CAMERA PULLS BACK as Susan glances down at the record player beside her.  She turns the knob.  We hear the clatter of a record dropping and music begins.  The tune is "The Sage." 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
CLOSE SHOT of Sidney.  He hears the music starting. 
HUNSECKER 
Hunsecker has come forward.  But now, as he listens to the gramaphone record playing in the bedroom, Hunsecker relaxes, assuming that this is a sign that Sidney's suspicions are unfounded. 
HUNSECKER (coming forward) What a cornball you are, Sidney... 
CAMERA TRACKS to include Sidney.  He does not share Hunsecker's confidence; he knocks again, calling: 
SIDNEY (anxiously) Susie! (in growing fear) SUSIE! 
CAMERA TRACKS closer to Sidney.  As he tries the doorknob, CAMERA TILTS DOWN.  Sidney's hand tries the doorknob, finds it locked, shakes it forcefully. 
DETAIL 
From inside the bedroom.  We see the doorknob rattled. 
RESUME SUSAN 
A CLOSE UP.  She realizes that Sidney means to insist.  She turns away towards the blowing curtains in background. 
RESUME LIVING ROOM 
A DETAIL SHOT.  Sidney's hand is still shaking the doorknob. He releases it.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to a TWO SHOT of Sidney and Hunsecker as Sidney retreats from the door in apprehension.  Now Hunsecker has begun to share Sidney's anxiety.  He moves to the door, knocks and then pounds on it. 
HUNSECKER (with authority) Susie, this is J.J.!  Open up! 
SUSAN 
A CLOSE UP.  She comes forward past the blowing curtains. The wind whips at her hair.  Over scene we hear the rumble of the traffic on Broadway far below. 
RESUME HUNSECKER 
He is pounding on the door again.  CAMERA makes a quick pan to Sidney who, in a split second, realizes that Susan may have gone out on the balcony.  He turns, dashes towards the study to look out on the terrace. 
RESUME SUSAN 
She has now started to climb onto the parapet.  Sidney leaps into shot, dragging her bodily off the parapet and out of shot.  We hear Susan cry out, a hysterical gasp.  CAMERA, looking through the windows of Susan's bedroom, sees the door fly open as Hunsecker bursts into the room.  He looks swiftly around, advances towards the open window. Exasperated by the sound of the gramaphone, he switches it off; he steps out onto the terrace.  CAMERA PANS with him as he turns to look back into the study where Susan's inanimate figure is sprawled on the floor, half across the low upholstered footstool.  Sidney, white and shaking, is standing over her. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
CAMERA at floor level.  Susan is framed in foreground.  The lower half of Sidney can be seen beside her.  Hunsecker is on the terrace in background.  Shocked, he moves quickly into the room. 
HUNSECKER 
A CLOSE UP.  He looks down at his sister.  He is badly shaken.  The sharp bite of terror produces a reaction of something akin to anger.  But he swiftly controls it.  He moves past CAMERA. 
REVERSE ANGLE 
Hunsecker stoops into shot.  Tenderly, he lifts the girl's body to get it into the arm chair.  Susan is quite lifeless, limp with the dead weight of a creature that has lost any instinct for self-preservation.  But as she feels her brother's arms, and as she recognizes who it is, she breaks out in hysteria. 
SUSAN (wildly) No!  NO!  Don't touch me! 
HUNSECKER (sharply) Susan!... 
But Susan strikes at him, a vicious gesture of revulsion. Hunsecker lets her go.  She falls into the arm chair, her face hidden from him; she begins to sob. 
SUSAN (her body shaking) Go away!...Go away!... 
Hunsecker would like to comfort her, but he dare not touch her again for fear of inviting another rebuff.  He is deeply hurt and wounded.  Embarrassed that Sidney should watch this moment, Hunsecker rises.  To cover his emotion, he walks to the tray of drinks in background; he pours a brandy and comes back.  Stooping, he offers it to Susan.  Her only reaction is again to wrench herself away from him, facing the opposite direction. 
SUSAN (sobbing bitterly) GO AWAY! 
Hunsecker sets down the drink, stands up. 
HUNSECKER (in a choked voice) Talk to her, Sidney... 
SIDNEY (hushed) Talk to her yourself... 
Over scene the telephone rings.  It is ignored.  While Hunsecker looks down at the girl, helplessly, the telephone continues to ring. 
SUSAN 
