TAKE SHELTER 
Written by 
Jeff Nichols 
Grove Hill Productions Release Edit Draft 
EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY 
Sun spikes through the jostling leaves of a maple tree. A strong wind bends them back, showing their light green bellies. 
This is a modest house in a row of modest houses. Propane tanks and farmland at their backs show this neighborhood to be more rural than suburb. 
CURTIS LAFORCHE(35) stands in his driveway. His eyes, locked on the sky, narrow as he stares at... 
A STORM CELL stretching out on the horizon in front of him. It's a bruised sky filled with a vicious mixture of black and gray clouds. They swirl in and out of one another sending wispy tentacles toward the ground. 
Curtis stands, awestruck. 
The clouds move fast overhead. He looks up as they overtake his position. A light rain begins. 
The rain pats the ground. It makes soft indentions on his cotton shirt. He watches it hit the concrete, falling harder now. He notices something strange. 
The rain makes dark spots on the sidewalk. He pulls his shirt out and sees dark spots forming there. He holds his palm out flat in front of him. The rain pools. 
He rubs the water through his thumb and fingers. It's an amber color, viscous, like fresh motor oil. 
Curtis looks to the sky, the rain pelting his face now. Jagged, angry clouds blanketing overhead. The wind bends back the trunk of the maple tree. 
Curtis stands alone at the base of the surging STORM CELL. 
TITLE: TAKE SHELTER 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
Curtis holds his head under the running shower nozzle. Cool, clean water rushes over his face. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
SAMANTHA(29) stands at the stovetop stirring eggs in a pan. She's still dressed in her sleeping attire, an oversized T- shirt and pajama bottoms with cartoon frogs on them. HANNAH(5) sits at the kitchen table tearing up a piece of toast and feeding it to the dog. 
Hannah is a blonde little girl with a large hearing aid wrapped over her right ear. It clips into her hair near the back of her head. The dog's name is Red, a Rhodesian Ridgeback that appreciates the attention. Curtis enters the kitchen and kisses Hannah on the head. In the same motion, he takes the piece of toast from her hand and sets it on her plate. 
CURTIS (takes a seat) No, no, no...Don't feed the dog darlin'. Hannah immediately picks the piece of toast back up and feeds it to the dog. Samantha brings the pan over and spoons eggs out on everyone's plates. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Thanks babe. 
SAMANTHA You slept late. 
Samantha sits at a table running a long piece of sheer fabric through her sewing machine. She's making curtains. NAT(37) sips a screwdriver from a clear plastic cup designed not to sweat. She's a woman with rough edges. CAMMIE(24) cradles a brown-haired BABY on top of her pregnant, eight month belly. As Nat speaks, she looks out a sliding glass door at her two kids, DJ(7) and SUE(5), playing with Hannah. 
NAT They were just drinkin' and laughin' and oh, my god...it was like I was bein' in a museum and I saw the progress from apes to men. I saw it. I saw the future. Dewart, that was him...that was going to be him in 20 years. 
SAMANTHA Oh my god. Cammie laughs. 
NAT Let me tell you, you laugh. You laugh. But this little one in your arms is gonna be shufflin' in a bar just like `em. Yep... 
(GLANCES OUTSIDE) Hannah! Samantha jumps up from her sewing to see outside. Hannah, with her back to the house, bangs a 2 X 4 with a rusted nail in the end into the ground. Samantha is out the door. 
EXT. BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS 
Samantha walks briskly, talking to the other children. 
SAMANTHA You guys okay? 
SUE Yeah. Samantha takes a wide line around Hannah, who continues banging the two-by-four into the ground. As soon as the child sees her mother, she stops. Samantha crouches in front of Hannah, gently taking the board away from her. Samantha signs with her hand and speaks at the same time. 
SAMANTHA No. Don't touch. Hannah tilts her head, looking off to the side. Samantha touches her chin bringing her eyes back around. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) (signing and speaking) You understand? Hannah nods once, "yes". 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Oksy. Come here. Samantha stands and takes the board to a trash pile in the back corner of the yard. A STORM SHELTER is buried in the ground just behind the pile. It's a grass covered mound with two rusted metal doors angled toward the sky. She throws the board onto the heap and wipes her hands on her pants. Staring at the pile, she lets out an irritated sigh. Thunder rumbles low in the distance. She looks up at the approaching clouds and calls to the children as she walks back inside. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Hey, DJ. Bring the girls inside. 
EXT. SOYBEAN FIELD - DAY 
THUNDER STRIKE. The drill bit spins as rain pelts the ground turning the dark soil into black mud. 
Curtis holds a rain slicker over his head. He watches as the hole they are drilling fills up with brown water. He lifts his boot, which makes a sucking sound as it dislodges from the mud. Looking at the horizon, he sees no sign of the storm letting up. He looks to Dewart, who smiles at him from behind the controls of the rig. 
DEWART What? It's not my fault! I told you! 
CURTIS Yeah. All right...All right! I'm callin' it! Shut it down! Dewart gladly eases back on the lever at his knee. 
I/E. LAFORCHE HOME - LATE AFTERNOON Samantha holds the front door open as Nat and Cammie leave with their children packed up and in tow. It's raining pretty hard outside. 
SAMANTHA Bye guys. Thanks for coming over. 
NAT I'll call next week about the Lions Club supper. 
SAMANTHA Okay. Love you. 
CAMMIE Bye Sam. 
SAMANTHA Bye Cam. Running for her car holding a jacket covered car seat. Samantha closes the door and listens to her quiet house. The rain outside is the only noise. She heads to the kitchen. 
IN THE KITCHEN, Hannah is sitting Indian-style at the glass doors watching the rain. Samantha walks over and kneels down behind her. She wraps her arms around Hannah, who lifts a hand to the glass. 
CURTIS I'll get to it this weekend. It's quiet for a moment. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I still take off my boots so I won't wake her up. She smiles up at her husband. 
SAMANTHA I still whisper. He pulls her tight. They stand together in the doorway. The house is silent. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - DAY 
Curtis loads pieces from the trash pile into a wheelbarrow. He keeps an eye on Hannah as she jumps on a small, plastic playscape in the middle of the backyard. The dog, Red, paces by the back door. He's agitated, but his movement is limited by the length of rope tied from his collar to a nearby post. He barks. 
THUNDER STRIKES. Curtis flinches at the loud boom. He looks to the sky and sees dark clouds twisting overhead. Hannah plays, unaffected by the noise. To get a better view, Curtis moves from beneath a tree in the corner of the yard and surveys the large swath of farmland that runs up to his property. Chain-link fencing partitions the yard from a deep concrete culvert that leads out to the open field. A giant STORM CELL gathers force on the horizon there. Red barks incessantly. He winces and strains against the rope tied to his collar. Curtis flinches again as A BOLT OF LIGHTNING streaks to the ground in the distance. Sparks shoot into the air leaving a circle of scorched crops. Another CRACK of thunder. 
A light rain begins. Red snaps his head around and bucks into the air. He gnashes at the rope. Curtis collects Hannah off the playscape and turns back to the approaching STORM CELL. He holds up his hand and studies the falling rain. It's the thick, amber colored liquid. With Hannah in his arms, Curtis watches, awestruck, as wispy tentacles drip to the ground forming a collection of THREE TORNADOS out in the field. Behind them, Red's teeth fray the rope at his collar. He thrashes his head, the rope SNAPS, and the dog flies toward Curtis and Hannah. Curtis turns to see Red charging them. He barely has time to set Hannah down before Red catches him by the forearm. They crash to the ground, tangled together. Rain coming down hard now. Curtis yells and waves Hannah back. Red, snapping, buries his teeth into the muscles in Curtis' arm. Blood streams from the wound. Curtis screams in pain. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
Curtis bolts up in bed grabbing his forearm. He grinds his teeth and doubles over in pain. It takes a moment for him to find his bearings. His breathing slows. He gently rubs his hand over the skin on his arm. Sweat has collected around his collar and temples. From the bed, sheets in a twisted mess, he looks around the room unsure of what just happened to him. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Eggs cool on a plate. Curtis sits at the kitchen table dressed for work. He stares vacantly at his breakfast. He looks up at Hannah. She sits on the floor surrounded by toy building blocks and plays with the dog. She rubs under Red's chest and in turn he licks her face. She smiles and gently pushes him away. Samantha sits with her knees up drinking coffee. 
SAMANTHA Curtis? 
CURTIS What? 
SAMANTHA Did you hear me? You got to be home, showered, ready to walk out the door by six tonight. Curtis stands up and goes over to Hannah. He grabs her off the floor and she begins to protest with kicks and crying. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) What's wrong? 
CURTIS Nothing. I just want her to eat her breakfast and stop playin' with the damn dog. 
SAMANTHA She's fine down there. She had toast already. Curtis, against flailing, manages to get Hannah in her chair. Curtis backs off, frustrated. Hannah climbs down from her chair and goes back to the floor and the dog. 
CURTIS Hannah. Come here. Hannah. 
SAMANTHA Curtis? 
CURTIS What? He stops and checks his watch. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I'm late. 
SAMANTHA You didn't eat anything? Heading out. 
CURTIS It's okay. Curtis is gone. Samantha looks at Hannah on the floor with the dog. 
INT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE - DAY 
The main headquarters of Delta Agri-Pro is housed in a giant metal building. A row of cheaply built, 70's style offices with drop tile ceilings line the left of a large warehouse that contains all manner of agricultural and construction equipment. Tractors, backhoes, welding rigs, etc. A GROUP OF MEN, many of which were represented at Gator's bar yesterday, sit in folding chairs or stand in a semi-circle around JIM THOMPSON(53). He speaks, clipboard in hand. 
I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/HOUSE - EVENING The sun has just set adding a purple hue to the sky. Curtis steers his truck up to the front curb of his house. 
THROUGH HIS WINDSHIELD, He sees Samantha standing by her car, the back door open. She watches him pull up. Hannah is already packed into her car seat. 
CURTIS 
(TO HIMSELF) Shit. 
PARKED, Curtis climbs out and walks to the driveway. 
SAMANTHA Come on we gotta go. 
CURTIS Ah, Jesus. I could really use a shower. 
Samantha isn't having it. She climbs in the passenger seat. Curtis makes his way to her car. 
INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT 
Curtis' work boots are encased in dry mud. Chunks have broken off and pepper the thin blue industrial carpet. His mud-stained fingers tap on the top of a desk. Dirt caked under his nails. 
TEACHER (O.S.) So if you continue with the basic vocabulary, this will allow you to communicate with your children better. Curtis sits, filthy, at a school desk he doesn't quite fit into. A TEACHER speaks to a ROOM FULL of PARENTS. 
TEACHER (CONT'D) Between the ages of four and seven the focus is more on the sign and then later we'll begin adding the alphabet as more of a support syster. Now in ASL... Curtis looks over at Samantha, who is sitting in the desk next to him. She won't look at him. He cranes his neck around to see toward the back of the room. An ASSISTANT TEACHER sits on a large, colorful rug with a GROUP of CHILDREN, all different ages, playing games that teach hand signs. Hannah actively participates in the group. 
TEACHER (CONT'D) ...the male sign is signed at the forehead area. For example, father is signed up here like this...Father, very good. Curtis turns back in his chair and makes the sign for "dad" along with the other parents. 
INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT - LATER 
Curtis, Samantha, and Hannah sit on the floor in a circle atop the colored rug. Samantha turns over large flashcards with illustrated scenes on them. They take turns making the corresponding sign. Curtis stares at Samantha, but she's still giving him the cold shoulder. Finally, while holding up a card, she looks at him. He signs, "I'm sorry". A fist moving in a circular motion at his chest. 
SAMANTHA You're not sorry. 
CURTIS I am sorry. She looks to Hannah and signs, "swim". 
SAMANTHA Well, you stink. You smell really bad. He smiles. 
CURTIS I think I smell good. She smiles, begrudgingly, and then signs to Hannah, "Dad" and "stink". Curtis turns to some ladies behind him. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Do I smell good? Samantha laughs and tries to cover his mouth with her hand. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) See. Maybe I should marry her instead. They continue to laugh. 
SAMANTHA Stop. 
INT. CURTIS' TRUCK - DAY 
Curtis slams the door to his truck, sealing him off from the torrential rainfall outside. He shakes water off, wipes his face. The windows are smeared by thick, dark rain. It's hard to see out. He looks over to Hannah sitting in her car seat. It looks odd on the front bench of the truck. He signs to her. 
CURTIS (signing and speaking) You okay? She nods. He cranks the truck and turns on the wipers. The liquid on the windshield streaks into long smudges. Curtis leans forward to get a better view of the street. He checks his blind spot and pulls away. 
SAMANTHA You sure? 
CURTIS Yeah. (holds up the mug) Better already. Samantha walks to her purse on the counter and roots through to find a set of keys. 
SAMANTHA Okay. I got my phone if you need anything. Don't forget Sunday lunch is here tomorrow. This reminder makes Curtis rub his face with a grunt. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) If you're sick, we should cancel. 
CURTIS I'll be all right. 
SAMANTHA Okay, we'll talk later. She heads for the door with Hannah. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Come on. Let's go. 
(TO CURTIS) You sure? 
CURTIS Honey, please. 
SAMANTHA Okay. Samantha scoops up her bag and takes Hannah by the hand. They leave the room. Curtis notices the dog, Red, sitting on his haunches looking at him. Curtis stares back, sipping his coffee. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - DAY 
The reverse lights shine as Curtis' pick-up rumbles backward. Curtis eyes the side mirror as he maneuvers the truck into his backyard. In the mirror, the trash pile comes into view. Just behind it, the STORM SHELTER doors appear. The truck shutters to a stop. Curtis studies the Shelter in the side mirror for a moment. A grassy bulge with angled metal doors peeking over the trash heap. He climbs out. A blue tarp is pulled from the bed of the truck, floating down to the yard. Curtis slips on a pair of work gloves and continues to eye the Storm Shelter. He yanks a bale of chain-link from the bed of the truck and carries it to the back corner of the yard. He steals another glance back toward the Shelter. 
Dropping the bale, he sizes up the space. He looks to the sky. It's a beautiful day. He begins counting off steps from the back fence line. 
INT. FLEA MARKET - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY 
-A linen sheet floats down over a folding table. -The hanging bag is placed on a portable clothes rod. -Hands place an assortment of home sewn crafts like napkins and embroidered pillows out onto the table. -A tackle box is opened revealing a tray of small bills and change. A calculator is removed. Hannah kneels in front of a folding chair behind their BOOTH at an open-air flea market. She uses the seat of the chair as a table for a tiny porcelain tea set. Samantha stands over her display table smiling and nodding at perusing CUSTOMERS. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY 
-A mallet drives tall metal stakes into the ground. -The cord holding together the bale of chain-link is snipped and a boot rolls the fencing out flat. -Chain-link is attached to the stakes with a number of metal braids. -The prefab DOGHOUSE is set down in the back corner. Curtis stands in front of his newly created dog pen. It's waist high and about 7' X 10', tucked in the back left corner of the yard so that half of the pen is made up by the existing fencing. 
INT. FLEA MARKET - DAY 
Samantha turns to see a large woman holding up an intricately embroidered pillow. You can tell by the look of her that she's a flea market pro, a BARGAIN HUNTER(54). 
BARGAIN HUNTER How much you asking for this pillow? 
SAMANTHA This pillow's fifteen dollars. 
BARGAIN HUNTER That's more than I want to spend. 
SAMANTHA This is all hand stitched. It takes a really long time. That's why I charge that. 
BARGAIN HUNTER I'll give you seven for it. Samantha looks at the woman, who is almost daring her. 
SAMANTHA I can't go that low. 
SAMANTHA But that's what I don't understand. If he didn't do anything why did you put him out back? Samantha counts out the money earned at the flea market. She sets a portion aside and closes the tackle box. Curtis says something, but it's inaudible. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) What? She opens the tin and removes an envelope with the word "BEACH" written on it in black sharpie. Samantha adds the money to the envelope and puts up the jar. She opens the fridge and takes out the milk. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) You hear me? I said if he didn't do anything why did you have to put him outside? Curtis' attention is on the TV. Samantha sits on the couch. 
CURTIS I just wanted him to be outside for awhile. 
SAMANTHA He's your dog. He's always been an inside dog. 
CURTIS He's my dog, and that's why he's outside. Right now with Hannah and everything I just think it'd be better. 
SAMANTHA Hannah loves Red. 
CURTIS Hold on. Curtis stares at the television program. Samantha's eyes narrow. Frustrated, she flips open her magazine. 
NEWS ANCHOR ...the gas cloud spread across their six acre property. 
(MORE) 
NEWS ANCHOR (CONT'D) The only way off their land was across the train tracks which were blocked by wreckage. 
WALTER JACOBS (from a hospital bed) I tried using some wet rags and towels to breathe through but that just seemed to make it worse. 
NEWS ANCHOR While rescue workers made several attempts to reach the family, Walter Jacobs' wife and brother-in- law died in the home. Jacobs survived despite enduring eleven hours of exposure to the gas cloud before finally being flown out by helicopter. 
CURTIS You hearin' this? Her nose still in the magazine. 
SAMANTHA It's awful. 
CURTIS Eleven hours. No way out. Samantha shakes her head. Curtis watches the footage of Walter Jacobs. He watches his red rimmed eyes. The deep lines in his face. 
INT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY 
It's daytime, but the house feels dark from the storm blowing outside. The SOUND of rain pelts the windows and roof. Curtis, dressed for work, walks from his bedroom down the hallway. He passes the den and stops at its entryway. 
IN THE DEN, Hannah sits on the couch with her back to him. She's on her knees looking out one of the front windows. A dull orange glow halos from the bank of windows. What sunlight there is appears diffused by the dark, thick rain smearing down the outside of the glass. 
A THUNDER STRIKE. 
Curtis flinches. He shows concern as heavier rain begins battering the house. The wind picks up making wood beams creak on their foundation. 
CURTIS Hannah. Hannah doesn't move. She continues staring out the window. The SOUND of the storm outside intensifies. Windows begin to rattle in their frames. Curtis walks over and reaches for Hannah but is startled by the sight of a MAN'S FACE just outside the window. Hannah and the Man have been staring at one another. The Man, hollow eyed and pale, moves out of the window and out of sight. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Hey! Thunder CRACKS overhead. Curtis scoops Hannah into his arms and heads out of the room. BANG. The front door rattles. Curtis stops and turns back. BANG. BANG. The SOUND of someone kicking at the front door. The storm outside has grown to a deafening pitch. The power goes out. The entire house vibrates, like a freight train running across the roof. The BANGING at the front door continues, frame giving way, as the STORM reaches its apex. Curtis, holding Hannah, kneels and braces himself in the entryway to the den. He covers the back of Hannah's head with his hands and squeezes her tight into his shoulder. Then Silence. A stillness. The rain stops. No more banging at the front door. The SUN moves brightly though the front windows. 
WOOSH. The furniture in the den lifts off the ground. A couch, Lazyboy, coffee table and lamp. It all hangs in the air, floating for a moment. Quietly. Curtis watches, eyes wide. A rumbling. Grows. The SUNLIGHT vanishes. SMASH! The sound of the storm is sucked back into the room as the furniture crashes to the floor, breaking apart on impact. 
The windows BLOW OUT. Curtis squeezes his eyes shut and pivots his body, trying to protect Hannah. Shards of glass splinter across his face. 
INT. BEDROOM - LATER 
Curtis strips the sheets off the bed. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
The laundry room is a stackable set squeezed into a closet off the hallway. Curtis loads the sheets into the washer and presses start. Watching the clothes spin, a thought. 
INT. DEN - DAY 
Curtis pushes Hannah's shoe onto her foot. He stops with the shoes to concentrate. He moves his index finger from one shoulder to the other and speaks. 
CURTIS We're going out. Confused, she slices her finger down an open palm. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) (with open palms) We're going out. Okay? It's okay. 
EXT. GRAFTON PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY 
Curtis leads Hannah up the front walk of the Grafton Public Library. It's a one-story brick building with 1960's architecture. The parking lot is nearly empty behind them. 
INT. GRAFTON PUBLIC LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS 
Curtis holds the glass front door open for Hannah. They stop in the entryway and survey the LIBRARY. There are only a few people, one of which is the LIBRARIAN sitting behind a central desk. It is an open room with cinder block walls painted in brightly colored shapes. 
Curtis finds the children's section to the left and leads Hannah over. She takes a seat at a kid's size table as Curtis grabs a Dinosaur book from a nearby display. Kneeling in front of her, Curtis shows her the book and motions with open hands to the ground. 
CURTIS You stay put okay? Hannah begins looking through the book. Curtis stands, he sees a set of computers under a sign reading, "CATALOGUE". 
AT THE COMPUTERS, Curtis takes a seat in front of one of the two computers set up on a folding table. He eyes the search screen. Title, Author, Subject. He clicks on "Subject" and types the word "DREAMS". He scrolls through a list of titles and writes down a number. He looks back for Hannah. She's still flipping through her book. No one else is around. He begins another search. He types "MENTAL ILLNESS". 
AT THE BOOK SHELVES, Curtis scans the spines looking for his title. He already holds two books against his chest. He pulls out a thick hard cover book. The title reads, "Understanding Mental Illness." 
I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/GRAFTON STREETS - MOVING - DAY Hannah is once again strapped into her car seat. She holds a big children's book in her hands. They pass a Grocery Store. Curtis turns as it goes by. The truck pulls a U-turn in the street and heads for the store parking lot. 
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY 
Curtis pushes a cart down the aisle. Hannah rides in the fold down metal seat. They stop at the bottled water section. Curtis loads several plastic, gallon jugs of water into his cart. The cart is filled with an assortment of supplies: Batteries, canned food, first aid supplies, matches. 
INT. LAFORCHE HOME/DINING ROOM - DAY 
Samantha sits in the dining room at a fully dressed table. Steam rises off bowls of mashed potatoes and green beans. Fried chicken piled on a platter. MELVIN(58) taps his finger on the empty plate in front of him and subtly checks his watch. JANINE(57) smooths out the embroidered table cloth. KATHRYN(37) and CHARLIE(39) tend to their child, REX(3). Rex repeatedly jams a finger into the potatoes. 
SAMANTHA Let's just start. 
MELVIN Let's all join hands for the blessing. The SOUND of the front door opening. Samantha gets up and leaves the room. 
BY THE FRONT DOOR, Curtis has Hannah in his arms. He closes the door. Samantha appears behind them. She speaks in a hushed, angry voice. 
SAMANTHA Where the hell have you been? 
INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE/EXAM ROOM - DAY 
Curtis sits, fully clothed, on the edge of a paper covered bench in the exam room. DOCTOR SHANNAN, an older man with a smoker's voice, enters smiling and gives a firm handshake. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN Curtis, how you doin' bud? 
CURTIS Hey Doc. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN How's my girl? 
The Doctor turns to a small table in the corner and grabs a wooden tongue depressor and an otoscope from a drawer. 
CURTIS She's good. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN That's good to hear. Tilt your head back for me. The Doctor shines the otoscope into his nostrils. 
CURTIS I don't have a cold. The Doctor pauses and turns to check a chart on the table. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN Oh. Did she get that down wrong? 
CURTIS No, I just told her that. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN Oh. So what's the problem? 
CURTIS I've been havin'...I've been having some trouble sleepin'. I was hopin' you could give me somethin' for it. Doctor Shannan takes a seat on a rolling stool and processes the request. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN How long's this been goin' on? 
CURTIS `Bout four nights now. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN You're not sleepin' at all? 
CURTIS Well some, but real restless. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN Well, I think four nights is a little too soon to tell. My advice would be to not eat or drink anything after 8 o'clock at night. Cut back on any alcoholic drinks, tobacco, caffeine...get some daily exercise. 
CURTIS Well, I think... Curtis isn't sure how much he wants to say. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I think I may need to try some medication. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN Why do you say that? 
CURTIS 
(STILL RELUCTANT) The reason I've been having trouble sleeping is because of some dreams I've been havin'. I didn't think it was anything at first, but then the other day I woke up and the bed was wet. 
DOCTOR SHANNAN You urinated in your bed? 
CURTIS Yeah. Couple days before that I had a dream that my dog attacked me and it took all day for the pain in my arm to go away. Doctor Shannan leans his back against the table and thinks about this. 
DEWART I don't know. You hear about people livin' for days all the time offa bark and melted snow. 
CURTIS I've never heard of that. 
DEWART Shit I don't know. You asked the question. 
CURTIS It's on there. It's on. Come on. 
Curtis steps back from the arm of the drill. Dewart taps the wrench on two bolts to make sure they are secure. 
A LOUD BOOM RATTLES. THUNDER. Curtis flinches at the sound. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Dammit. 
DEWART What? Curtis turns around and checks the sky. It's clear blue. Not a cloud in sight. 
CURTIS It sounds like thunder. 
DEWART What sounds like thunder? 
BOOM. ANOTHER THUNDER STRIKE. Curtis doesn't move. He watches Dewart walk to the controls of the drilling rig. 
MORE THUNDER. ROLLING NOW. Curtis steps back from the rig and checks the horizons. Nothing. It's a beautiful day. Dewart looks down at him. Curtis' face is pale, scared. Curtis looks at him. Not sure what to say. Curtis turns and walks to his truck. 
DEWART (CONT'D) Where you goin'? Curtis. Where you goin'? 
BY CURTIS' TRUCK, Curtis stops and rests his hands on the bed of the truck. Another THUNDER STRIKE makes him flinch. Curtis VOMITS next to the back tire. He quickly stands, wiping his mouth. He checks over his shoulders to see if anyone has seen him. 
I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/RURAL HIGHWAY - MOVING - DAY Curtis studies his face in the rearview mirror as he sails down the rural highway. 
He rubs his eyes with the back of his hand and looks in the side mirror. The horizon is still clear. Curtis begins to hyperventilate. Short breaths accompanied by cold sweat. Sucking air. He can't breath. He panics. The truck tires slide on the gravel shoulder as he abruptly slams on the brakes and steers off the highway. Dust settles outside as Curtis begins to get his breathing under control. He rests his head on the steering wheel and shuts his eyes tight. Everything quiets down. His breathing. The road. No more thunder. Curtis looks out his passenger window. His truck has stopped in front of a Tractor Trailer Depot. A rusted shipping container with giant white letters painted on it reads, "CONTAINERS FOR SALE". Curtis stares at this. He climbs out of the truck. 
EXT. TRAILER DEPOT - CONTINUOUS 
Curtis walks around his truck to get a better look at the depot. The dirt lot is piled high with containers. He studies the "FOR SALE" sign, then a smaller sign next to it that lists available sizes. Curtis turns back to his truck and rubs his face, still shaking things off. He looks up at the sky. Clear and blue. A thought comes to him. He checks his watch. 
I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/INTERSTATE - DAY Curtis drives down a divided four-lane interstate. 
EXT. PLEASANT GROVE APARTMENTS - DAY 
Curtis' truck pulls into the parking lot of the Pleasant Grove Apartments. It's a well manicured, new construction facility. The words "AN ASSISTED LIVING COMMUNITY" are written under the apartment name on the sign out front. 
INT. ASSISTED LIVING APARTMENT/HALLWAY - DAY 
Curtis stands by the door for apartment 212 in an interior carpeted hallway. He knocks. 
A passing ATTENDANT guides an elderly WOMAN down the hallway. Curtis nods to them. The door opens. SARAH(61), a plainly dressed woman much too young to live in a nursing home, looks surprised. 
SARAH Curtis. 
DEWART Jim came by. I covered for you. 
CURTIS Thanks. 
DEWART I need your help with the depth charts. 
CURTIS Sure. 
EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - LATER 
Curtis and Dewart sit on the drilling rig eating lunch. 
DEWART Fuckin' Nat put me in charge of frying oysters for that Lions Club supper. 
CURTIS You need another burner? 
DEWART Yeah, if you still got yours I could use it. 
CURTIS You think you could help me with somethin'? 
DEWART Whatta you need? 
CURTIS I'm gonna build out the tornado shelter in my backyard. I could use some help. 
DEWART The hell you wanna do that for? 
CURTIS Just needs to be done. Dewart eyes him, unsure. 
DEWART What do you need? 
CURTIS I figure I'll do it on Saturday, borrow some equipment from work. 
DEWART You sure about that? 
CURTIS I just need a backhoe, a hauler. I'll rent the rest. Dewart stares off into the distance. He notices Curtis looking at him, waiting for an answer. 
DEWART Yeah. Whatever. I'll help. 
CURTIS Thanks. 
DEWART You all right man? 
CURTIS What do you mean? 
DEWART I just don't wanna see you fuck up. 
CURTIS I'm not. 
EXT. TRAILER DEPOT - LATE AFTERNOON 
CURTIS Yeah, I don't know my mother's symptoms. I was just 10. My brother was 17. And, uh...I don't know. She just left me in the car in the parking lot at the grocery store one day. And she didn't come back. And then they found her a week later eatin' trash out of a dumpster in northern Kentucky. 
(MORE) 
CURTIS (CONT'D) My dad had to put her in the state hospital in Columbus. And she's been in assisted living ever since. Yep. My dad raised me. He died last April. Kendra nods, a pleasant look on her face. 
KENDRA So tell me `bout these dreams. Curtis studies her face, bites at the inside of his cheek. 
INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT 
The class has finished. PARENTS and KIDS trickle out. Samantha stands off to the side speaking with the Teacher. 
SAMANTHA I don't know what our schedule will be, but... 
TEACHER That's all right. But I really do think you should continue with the sign language. And any additional therapies that kids need for the cochlear implant. 
SAMANTHA Absolutely. 
TEACHER Okay. Good night. 
SAMANTHA Good night. As Samantha talks to the Teacher, Curtis looks over flashcards with Hannah. He signs "SUNSHINE", a circle in the sky with the hand then coming down, fingers spread. 
I/E. SAMANTHA'S CAR/INTERSTATE - NIGHT Curtis drives while Samantha and Hannah sleep in the back. Surrounding farmland drops quickly into darkness joining a purple sky in the distance. Through the passenger window, a streak of lightning breaks across the horizon. Then another. Curtis, seeing this, repositions to get a better look through the window. It's horizontal lightning that appears to leap from cloud to cloud. Well defined bolts that strobe the night sky silhouetting towering thunderheads. 
Curtis looks back to Samantha and Hannah, still asleep. He pulls the car over to the shoulder of the interstate and continues watching. He climbs out. 
ON THE SHOULDER OF THE INTERSTATE, Cars rush by as Curtis gently closes the car door. Keeping his eyes on the lightning storm, he walks to the shoulder. It's a fantastic display of light. Hurried and intense. A BOLT of lightning reaches down to the ground. Sparks pop off the earth in the distance. Another BOLT streaks down, getting closer. Curtis sees the traffic continuing to pass by at full speed. 
CURTIS 
(TO HIMSELF) Is anyone seeing this? Curtis walks to the back window of the car and sees Samantha sleeping inside. He reaches out to knock but stops himself. He turns back to the lightning and watches. 
INT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE - DAY 
The giant rolling door curls up in the Delta Agri-Pro warehouse. Sunlight bounces off the finished concrete. Curtis pulls the chain for the door as Dewart slams the tow latch down on the back of a DUMP TRUCK. 
I/E. FLEA MARKET/LAFORCHE HOME - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY -The Dump Truck and Tow Trailer sit parked on the street in front of Curtis' house. Dewart stands at the back of the trailer with his hand on the ramp lever as Curtis reverses a BACKHOE onto the street. -Samantha works her booth at the flea market. Hannah neatly organizes a collection of colored beads on the floor. -A 20 foot rectangle has been outlined in bright orange paint next to the storm shelter in Curtis' backyard. Other colored markings denote gas and water lines. The bucket on the Backhoe digs into the center of the dotted rectangle. -Dewart maneuvers the Backhoe's bucket and drops a load of earth into the bed of the Dump Truck. Red, the dog, barks at the loud machinery from his pen. 
-Curtis uses a smaller trench digging machine on the backside of the yard, radiating out from the main dig site. He notices a NEIGHBOR watching him from they yard next door. -Samantha tallies cash from the tackle box she uses as a register. Hannah counts out the change. -Dewart assembles a series of PVC pipe next to the trenches Curtis dug. -Curtis, work goggles on, stands in a head deep hole holding a pneumatic jack hammer up to the exposed exterior wall of the storm shelter. He begins hammering. 
EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - LATE AFTERNOON 
Samantha's car pulls up and parks on the opposite side of the street from their house. She gets out, puzzled by the Backhoe and Trailer parked in front of her house. Huge light brown tracks of dirt stripe the concrete driveway. Leading Hannah by the hand, Samantha follows the tracks to the backyard. 
IN THE BACKYARD, Samantha stops, mouth agape, stunned by what she sees. A 20 foot by 8 foot wide hole that is 10 feet deep sits in the middle of her yard. Smaller trenches lead out from it. Dewart leans against the propane tank in the back corner of the yard. He digs dirt from underneath his fingernails with a pocket knife. Seeing Samantha, he waves a hand. Curtis' head appears from the hole. He stops when he sees Samantha. They stare at one another. He can see her surprise. He continues up the ladder and walks over to her. Dewart watches from the back of the yard. 
CURTIS Hey. It's all right. Calm down. Samantha takes Hannah into the house without saying a word. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Samantha. 
CURTIS (into the phone) No. It's fine. It's fine. Don't send an ambulance. It's fine. Curtis clicks off the phone. 
SAMANTHA What are you doing? Curtis wraps his arms around her. He holds her tight. The SOUND of ambulance sirens approach from the distance. Samantha speaks, her voice trembling. 
SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Baby what's goin' on? 
EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - NIGHT 
The ambulance lights splash across the house. Curtis escorts TWO EMTs down the front walk. He favors his left leg, walking with a slight limp. 
CURTIS I'm sorry you fellows had to come all the way out. 
EMT It's what we do. Now we can still take you in if you want a doctor to look at those cuts in your mouth. 
CURTIS Yeah. That's all right.. I'll see somebody on Monday. 
EMT All right. 
CURTIS Thanks. Curtis shakes their hands. He turns to walk back in the house and notices NEIGHBORS watching from their porches. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Curtis turns up a bottle of peroxide and swishes it in his mouth. It burns. He spits into the kitchen sink. Samantha sits at the table watching him. Concerned, scared. She holds a balled up tissue in her hand. Curtis takes a seat across the table. She waits for him to say something. 
CURTIS I haven't been honest with you. I'm sorry. 
SAMANTHA What's goin' on? 
CURTIS I've been havin' these dreams. I guess they're more like nightmares. It's why I've been actin' like this. Samantha listens with a furrowed brow. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) They always start with a kind of storm. Like a real powerful storm. 
(MORE) 
CURTIS (CONT'D) And there's always this dark, thick rain. Like fresh motor oil. And then the things, people, it just makes `em crazy. They attack me. Sometimes they go after Hannah. First one I had Red nearly chewed through my arm. 
SAMANTHA That's why you put him out back? 
CURTIS Yeah. 
SAMANTHA What was the dream? Tonight. 
CURTIS It was Dewart. We were at the job site. The storm started and somethin' happened. His face. His eyes were different. He came after me with a pick ax. And we fought. And he ran it through my leg. Curtis zones out for a moment. Samantha says nothing. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) It's hard to explain, because it's not just a dream. It's a feeling. I'm afraid something might be comin'. Something that's...not right. I can not describe it. I just need you to believe me. Samantha's eyes are red. Her nose. She nods slightly and dabs the tissue at the corner of her eye. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I've been to a counselor. I've seen her a few times. This makes Samantha look up. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) You know what I come from. And I promised myself...I promised myself I would never leave. And I am doin' everything that I can to make that true. The room is quiet. Samantha watches her husband. 
CURTIS Yes sir. I appreciate that but... well it would just be very helpful in this case. 
JIM Okay. Well, I can put him with Russell. Anybody else you prefer? 
CURTIS No. Whoever you think's right. 
JIM Okay. 
CURTIS Thank you. Curtis turns to leave the office. 
JIM You been missin' a lotta work Curtis. 
CURTIS I know. My daughter's had a lot of doctor's visits. I haven't let anything get behind. 
JIM No. But don't. Okay. 
CURTIS Yessir. Curtis shows himself out. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - EVENING 
The sun has just set and a purple hue hangs over everything. Curtis stands in the very back of the yard and watches a MAN guide a long, flatbed trailer up the driveway. An 18 foot metal SHIPPING CONTAINER rides on the back. 
INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 
Nat and Samantha sit at the kitchen table going over a list of food in a note pad. 
SAMANTHA I know they just usually do oysters and fries but what if we did something healthier on the side? 
NAT What like slaw? Nat gets up to refill her drink. She looks out the back door and surveys the construction zone. A FORKLIFT lowers the Shipping Container into the giant hole in the backyard. Nat shakes her head. 
SAMANTHA I don't know. Maybe a vegetable or salad. 
NAT Dewart's been tellin' me how strange Curtis has been actin' lately. I am so sorry. Nat brings her drink back to the table and sits. Samantha doesn't look up from her pad. 
NAT (CONT'D) It's not like you don't have enough on your plate with Hannah. Nat puts her hand on Samantha's. Samantha moves it. 
SAMANTHA Things are fine. We're fine. Nat smiles sympathetically. 
INT. ARMY NAVY STORE - DAY 
Curtis meanders inside. He sees police tactical and survival gear behind the counter. Chief among them is a collection of gas masks hanging on the rear partition. 
OWNER Can I help you? 
CURTIS Yeah. Can I look at one of these gas masks? 
OWNER Sure. Which one you want to look at? 
CURTIS The newest one. The OWNER of the store removes a mask and hands it to him. Curtis fiddles with the mask. 
Jim, Curtis' boss, stands with his hands on his hips looking down at the planted shipping container. Curtis approaches. 
CURTIS Hey Jim. 
JIM Curtis. Dewart told me you took equipment from work for a project at your house. Said that's why you wanted him off your crew. I came out here to see it myself. 
CURTIS Yeah. It was just a hauler and a backhoe. It was Saturday. I had `em back in less than 8 hours. 
JIM You know that doesn't matter. I can't even tell you how many rules you broke. 
(MORE) 
JIM (CONT'D) What if you had an accident? Huh? What if you ran somebody over on your way out here? Lawsuit like that could bankrupt me. 
CURTIS Well, I'm sorry Jim. I hadn't thought of that. Thank God nothin' like that happened. You know? I'll do whatever I can to make it right. 
JIM You can pick up your last check on Friday. You've got two weeks benefits. Curtis nods. Accepts it. 
CURTIS Did you fire Dewart? 
JIM He's on two weeks leave unpaid... I'm sorry Curtis. You did this to yourself. Jim turns and walks out of the backyard. 
INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 
Samantha clears the table. Hannah sits, watching her father walk in. Curtis stops just inside the door, closes it. 
CURTIS I've been fired. Samantha continues clearing the dishes to the sink. She doesn't look up. 
SAMANTHA What about the health insurance? 
CURTIS We get two more weeks. Samantha slams the plates into the sink. They break. She holds her head back and stares at the ceiling. She walks over to Curtis... 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I'm sorry... ...and SLAPS him across the face. Hannah begins to cry. 
Samantha turns and collects Hannah from the table. She grabs her things and walks out of the house. Curtis stands alone in the kitchen. 
INT. AR COUNTY COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER/HALLWAY - DAY 
Curtis walks down the hallway to Kendra's office. The door ajar, he knocks and enters. 
INT. KENDRA'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Curtis finds ANDY(42), a man in khakis and a button up, sitting behind the desk. 
CURTIS Oh, `scuse me. Andy rises from his chair. 
ANDY Are you Curtis? 
CURTIS Yeah. 
INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - EVENING 
Samantha tucks Hannah into bed. She kisses her on the head and turns out the bedside lamp. Samantha leaves the room. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - EVENING 
Samantha steps out of the house. She walks over to Curtis, who is standing on a grassy section of the yard over an assortment of auto parts. They don't speak for a moment. 
SAMANTHA What's that? 
CURTIS That's the alternator from the truck. 
(MORE) 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I was just trying to figure out a way to charge enough batteries to run lights down there. Ah, what the hell? Maybe I'll hook it up to your old exercycle. Samantha almost smiles. Curtis keeps his eyes on the parts. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) You gonna leave me? Samantha looks at his hands. They hang by his sides. 
SAMANTHA You flinched when I touched your hand this morning. 
CURTIS I'm sorry. 
SAMANTHA I was in one of your dreams? Curtis nods. 
CURTIS Yeah. 
SAMANTHA Can you deal with that? He holds open his hand to her. She takes it. 
CURTIS Yeah. 
SAMANTHA Okay. Then I made a decision. We cancel the beach trip. We have enough to cover bills for the next two months with your last check. I'm going to get a job. You're gonna find another job. I'm going to call to see if we can move Hannah's surgery up. We'll need to see what it costs to extend your policy to the end of the year. I want you to see a psychiatrist. Not a counselor from the free clinic. Someone good. 
CURTIS Doctor Shannan gave me the number of somebody. But, uh, I just don't think we can afford it. 
SAMANTHA We'll find the money. Also, the Lions Club supper's this weekend. I want you to come with me. 
CURTIS I don't want to see any of those people. 
SAMANTHA I want you to go. I need to do something normal. 
CURTIS All right. Curtis nods. Samantha let's go of his hand and walks back to the house. Curtis goes back to studying the auto parts. 
INT. LIONS CLUB LODGE - NIGHT 
The inside of the club is a musty banquet hall with wood panelled walls and a drop tile ceiling. The place is packed. Rows of folding tables fill the center of the room. A long LINE has formed along the side wall that wraps to a serving station at the back. Heated metal bins filled with fried oysters and french fries. Curtis gets in line with his family. 
AT THE SERVING TABLE, Curtis holds two paper plates. 
CURTIS How many pieces does Hannah get? 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Sleep well in your beds. Cause if this thing comes true, there ain't gonna be any more. Curtis looks down at Dewart. He turns to see Hannah. She's tucked under her Mother's leg crying. This hits him hard. He stops. Looking at Samantha, his eyes fill with tears. 
Samantha, leading Hannah by the hand, walks to Curtis. He stares at her, on the verge of breaking down. She takes her hand and gently pulls his head down to her shoulder. Without another look toward the crowd, Samantha leads her family out of the dining hall. 
EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY 
Hannah stands on a toolbox and rests her elbows on the side of Curtis' truck. The hood is open. She watches her father fiddle with re-installing the alternator. His fingers covered in grease. Hannah steps down from the toolbox and walks into the front yard. Curtis pauses, hearing a high-pitched, warbling SOUND in the distance. He notices Hannah is gone. 
CURTIS Hannah? He pulls his head out from the hood and sees Hannah standing on the curb. She looks down the street. He runs down his driveway, wiping his hands on a rag and watching the horizon. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) Hannah! A FLOCK OF BIRDS, flying in intricate geometric patterns, swarm above the house at the end of the street. They twist and bend into speckled black shapes. Hannah, watching, walks into the street. Curtis catches her by the hand. He turns away from the birds to see a STORM CELL building on the opposite horizon. He scoops Hannah into his arms, stepping back from it. The SOUND of the birds grows louder. Curtis pivots to find the mass of birds barreling down the street toward him. He turns away as the wall of birds crash past him. The force so powerful it knocks him backward. He covers Hannah's head, dodging the onslaught of wind and wings. The Flock passes. Curtis stands, his face cut and scraped. Hannah cries, clinging to his chest. 
SMASH! The windshield of a car parked next to him SHATTERS. Curtis looks at the broken glass. A dead bird, it's neck broken, rests crumpled on the hood. 
SMACK! 
Another bird crashes into the asphalt just in front of him. Then another. Curtis looks up. The Flock of birds are circling overhead and diving down at him. More birds crashing to the ground. Curtis covers his head. The neighborhood's tornado SIRENS begin to sound. Curtis rushes Hannah toward his front door as dozens of birds plummet from the sky. The sirens BLARING. 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Curtis wakes to Samantha shaking him by the shoulders. She's nearly on top of him in the bed. 
SAMANTHA Curtis! Wake up! Wake up! TORNADO SIRENS continue to scream throughout the neighborhood. Curtis looks to the window. Rain and hail are battering the house. He jumps to his feet and grabs Samantha by the arm. They rush out of the room. 
INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Curtis bursts into the room. Hannah is standing at the window looking out. Curtis scoops her up, scaring her. She begins to cry as they run from the room. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - NIGHT 
Wind blows fiercely as pellets of hail bounce off the ground. Rain cuts at a sharp angle. The Tornado Sirens continue. Curtis, Hannah in his arms and Samantha close behind, exits the back of the house and heads to the storm shelter. He passes Hannah to Samantha and fumbles with the padlock keys. At the doors to the shelter, Samantha holds her robe up to shield Hannah from the hail. Curtis gets the lock and opens the door. They go inside. 
INT. STORM SHELTER - CONTINUOUS 
Curtis slams the doors behind them. It's pitch black until he gets to the switch on the lantern. The room fills with the orange glow as Curtis snaps the padlock through the door handles. 
CURTIS Come on. It's okay. Curtis leads them through the entry to the larger section of the shelter. Samantha takes Hannah and sits with her on one of the cots. She's signing to her, trying to calm her down. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) It's okay. All right. Come on. Sit down. Curtis goes to a trunk in the corner and begins rooting through it. He removes two gas masks and an oxygen mask connected to a small tank. He goes over and kneels in front of Hannah. He tries slipping the oxygen mask over her face. Samantha grabs his wrist. 
SAMANTHA No. Don't do that. 
CURTIS It's okay. It's oxygen. Here. Put this on. Curtis hands Samantha a gas mask. 
SAMANTHA Are you kidding? 
CURTIS Please just do it. Okay? He looks to Hannah and places an oxygen mask over her face.. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) There we go. All right. Keep it out of your eyes. Okay? He signs to her. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) (signing and speaking) You feel it? You feel it? Hannah walks to her mother. Samantha holds onto her. Curtis steps back from them. They watch him, their backs to the doors. He flinches and covers his mouth. 
CURTIS (CONT'D) I'm sorry. 
SAMANTHA Baby, there's no storm outside. 
CURTIS I'm sorry. Samantha walks over to him. 
SAMANTHA Curtis. I wouldn't lie to you. We love you very much. Please open the door. Curtis is on the verge of tears. He slowly reaches into his jeans pocket. He removes the keys. He holds them out to Samantha. 
CURTIS I'm sorry. I can't. Samantha looks at the keys, then at Curtis. Tears shake from his trembling face. 
SAMANTHA I love you, but if I open the door, then nothin's gonna change. You'll see that everything's fine, but nothing will change. Please. This is what it means to stay with us. This is something you have to do. He looks at Hannah, then Samantha. Curtis steadies himself, trying to control his flinching. He wipes his face with the back of his hands and takes a deep breath. Curtis walks toward the doors. On the steps, he reaches up to the padlock. The keys shake in his fingers. He turns to Samantha. 
CURTIS Could you move Hannah back? 
Samantha picks Hannah up in her arms and Curtis watches them retreat to the rear wall. He goes back to the lock. He inserts the key. The padlock pops open. Curtis removes it. He looks back at Samantha, then flings open the doors. 
SUNLIGHT. It's blinding. Curtis holds his hand up to cover his eyes. He stares up at a crystal blue sky. Samantha watches as Curtis steps out of the shelter. 
EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS 
Curtis rises through the storm shelter's entryway. Out of the corner of his eye he catches, 
A MAN PASSING BY. Curtis is startled. He turns to see a CREW of MEN from the power company hoisting a ladder onto the pole at the corner of the house. A power line dangles overhead. He turns to see NEIGHBORS in their yards clearing debris. Leaves and branches clutter the ground. The aftermath of a storm. Samantha steps out of the shelter holding Hannah. She surveys the damage. 
CURTIS It's fine. She walks over to Curtis and hugs him. He kisses Samantha on the head. Curtis looks up at the sky. 
INT. PSYCHIATRIST OFFICE - DAY 
Curtis sits with Samantha in the plush office of a PSYCHIATRIST(56). Curtis rubs his hand over the soft leather upholstery on the couch. 
PSYCHIATRIST Do you have any vacation time that you could use? 
CURTIS I don't have a job right now. 
PSYCHIATRIST Well, I know that times are hard, but I think it's really important for you to separate yourself from that storm shelter. 
(MORE) 
PSYCHIATRIST (CONT'D) I think you need to break away from it for awhile. We can start you on some medication that I think will help, but that action alone would mean a lot. 
SAMANTHA We usually go on a trip to Myrtle Beach every summer. We were gonns go this month. 
PSYCHIATRIST I think that would be okay if we start the medication now. It would give you all some time to prepare as a family, but I want to be clear, when Curtis gets back he'll need to take more time than that. 
SAMANTHA What does that mean? 
PSYCHIATRIST I mean that he'll need hands on therapy at a real facility. Curtis looks up for the first time. 
