TAKING SIDES 
by Ronald Harwood 
adapted from the play by Ronald Harwood 
Final Draft, 1988 
FADE IN: 
INT. BERLIN CONCERT HALL (1944) - NIGHT 
A man conducting Beethoven.  Air raid in progress.  Bombs falling nearby.  The orchestra continues to play.  Suddenly the lights go out.  The music stops. 
INT. BACKSTAGE CORRIDOR, CONCERT HALL - NIGHT 
A beam from a torch, bouncing, making shadows.  An ATTENDANT, carrying the torch, hurries down the corridor. The air raid continues. 
He comes to a door, knocks, opens it and looks in. 
ATTENDANT (agitated) Dr. Furtwängler, the Reichsminister. 
The sound of heavy footsteps approaching.  The attendant turns his torch to light the way for three men in Nazi uniform, also with attendants and torches, marching down the corridor. 
The attendant bows deeply as the REICHSMINISTER and his aide go through the door. The other man remains in the corridor on guard. 
INT. CONDUCTOR'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Candles light the room where the conductor shakes hands with the Reichsminister. 
REICHSMINISTER Dr. Furtwängler, I want to apologise personally for this power failure. I was so enjoying the performance. In times like these we need spiritual nourishment. 
A bomb explodes nearby. 
REICHSMINISTER But I welcome this unexpected opportunity of talking to you. (with great care) When you came on to the platform tonight, I thought you weren't well.  You looked tired, (a warning) Get away from this bombing. Away from the war.  Yes, you look tired... (a crooked smile) Even in this light. 
INT. RUINED CINEMA - DAY 
Dark.  ON A SCREEN: scenes from Leni Riefenstahl's triumph of the will. Over this: 
A MAN'S VOICE Look at them. Men, women, kids. Boy, did they love him. You see, Steve, Adolf Hitler touched something deep, real deep and savage and barbaric, and it won't just go away overnight. It's got to be rooted out. You know what I think? I think they were all Nazis. And let's face it, their leaders, those bastards now on trial in Nuremberg, couldn't have done it alone. It's these people, they gave all the help that was needed. Willingly. 
The film changes with a scratchy music soundtrack - Wagner. SHOTS of high-ranking Nazis in an audience including Josef Goebbels, listening. And they're listening to and watching Wilhelm Furtwängler conducting. At the appropriate moment: THE MAN'S VOICE That's him.  Furtwängler. Wilhelm Furtwängler. 
The Nazis applaud. Goebbels shakes hands with Furtwängler. The film ends. 
Steve watches expressionless. 
WALLACE Next reel, please. 
ON THE SCREEN: SHOTS of camp survivors. Then SHOTS of emaciated corpses being bulldozed into mass graves. 
ARCHIVE FILM Sanitary conditions were so appalling that heavy equipment had to be brought in to speed the work of cleaning up. This was Bergen Belsen. 
The moment this appears, Steve rises and goes quickly. 
ON THE SCREEN: piles of cadavers. 
INT. MAJOR STEVE ARNOLD'S BEDROOM (I945) - NIGHT 
Steve having a nightmare, twisting, turning, moaning. He wakes with a cry. He is sweating. He turns on the light, looks at a clock, reaches for a cigarette, lights it. He smokes. He stares at the ceiling. 
Later: 
Early morning. Cold. Steve is at the basin in his small room, shaving. A radio on a shelf. 
AMERICAN RADIO VOICE Remember, men, no fraternisation. In a German town, if you bow to a pretty girl or pat a blond child, you bow to all that Hitler stood for. You bow to his reign of blood. You caress the ideology that meant death and destruction. You never know who was a member of the Nazi Party. Don't be fooled. Don't fraternise. 
EXT. STEVE'S OFFICE BUILDING, BERLIN - DAY 
Steve's car swerves round the corner and comes to a halt. A small crowd watch workmen on ladders hammering away at a stone swastika above the portico. American soldiers supervise. Steve gets out of the car, carrying an attache case, and he, too, watches as the stone swastika falls and crashes into pieces on the road. One or two people clap, most just stare. 
The American soldiers immediately hoist the Stars and Stripes. Steve goes into the building. The sentry salutes. 
The driver of the car goes to the trunk and takes out a labelled duffel bag, cans of film, a case which holds a 16- mm projector. A small BOY sidles up to him: 
BOY Cigarettes, chewing gum? 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
Steve and Sergeant Adams ascending a grand, winding but damaged staircase to the rear of a spacious entrance hall. A once impressive building. Signs of bomb damage everywhere. German workmen doing repairs. American military personnel coming and going, saluting Steve, who barely acknowledges them. 
They reach the landing. Adams opens double doors and they go through. 
ADAMS We're gonna have the heating fixed by tonight. 
A few gilt chairs, a workman trying to repair the stove. Adams opens another door for Steve. 
INT. STEVE S OFFICE - DAY 
EMMI is hanging the standard photograph of President Truman on the wall. She turns to see Steve and Adams and is covered with confusion. She gives Steve a little curtsey. 
Steve starts to unpack his attache case. 
EMMI Then there have been three calls from Dr. Furtwängler wanting to know when you wish to see him. I did not speak to him personally... 
She hands Steve a typewritten sheet. He ignores it, finds a list which he hands to her. He waits for her to read, then: 
STEVE Think you can get me any of that? 
EMMI (pleased) Oh yes, Major, I have recordings of all his symphonies. I kept them safe during the bombing. My favourite is the Seventh Symphony. 
STEVE Mine's the Eleventh. 
EMMI (puzzled) But... he only wrote nine, Major. 
STEVE I'm kidding, Emmi. What about a record player? You have that, too? 
EMMI No. Ours was damaged. 
STEVE (surveys the room) What's in those files? 
EMMI The names of the members of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra since 1934 together with their questionnaires.  Major, what am I to tell Dr. Furtwängler? 
STEVE You tell him nothing, Emmi. If he calls again, you say you know nothing. We're gonna keep him waiting while I get acquainted with his case and with the witnesses. And, God help me, with Beethoven. 
He smiles. She tries to smile back. 
EXT. FLEA MARKET, BERLIN - DAY 
Freezing weather. A narrow street, crowded, busy, noisy. Some makeshift stalls set out, trestle tables, open suitcases, people buying and selling every imaginable commodity. 
Emmi wanders through the crowd, passing a violinist, Helmuth Rode, wrapped up against the cold, playing Handel's Air on a G String, a bowl for money at his feet. A passer-by drops a cigarette butt in it.  Immediately, Rode retrieves the butt. 
Emmi comes to a stall selling piles of gramophone records. She asks the stallholder a question. He points to another stall across the way. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Steve at his desk, paging through files. A knock on the door. 
STEVE Yeah. 
Lieutenant DAVID WILLS, aged twenty-four, enters, comes to Steve's desk, stands to attention, salutes. 
DAVID Lieutenant Wills reporting to Major Arnold. Sir. 
STEVE For Chrissakes I hate that shit, cut it out. 
SCHLEE Yes, Dr. Furtwängler was absolutely clear about this: politics and art must be kept separate. 
STEVE Politics and art must be kept separate. I'll remember that. But let me see if you can help me with something I just don't understand. I'd really like to know why all you guys are so crazy about him. What's his secret? 
Schlee tries to find words. 
SCHLEE Well, it's hard to explain. I can only tell you from my own experience. Soon after I joined the orchestra, we were rehearsing the Third Symphony of Beethoven, the Eroica. There are several rather difficult passages for the timpani. One particular crescendo. During the break, I asked how he wanted it played. He was studying his score. He didn't look up. He said, 'Just watch me.'  So, of course, I did. I never stopped watching him. The moment came. And suddenly, he turned to me and our eyes were locked. There was something in his look that...  that simply demanded the crescendo. I shall never forget his look. It was a moment of... of magic. 
Steve nods, thinks for a moment. Then: 
STEVE You ever seen Adolf Hitler's eyes when he was making a speech? I've seen 'em on films. 
SCHLEE Yes. 
STEVE Was looking at Furtwängler like that? 
SCHLEE I don't know what you mean, Major. 
STEVE When you got to the crescendo. 
Schlee looks at him bewildered. 
INT./EXT. CAR (TRAVELLING), LAKESIDE AND MANSION - DAY 
In the back, David and Steve. Military driver. The car's making its way along a road that skirts a lake towards a grand mansion from which fly the four Allied flags. 
STEVE You think a whole orchestra, what, a hundred and forty or so guys, could be orchestrated? 
DAVID I guess it's possible. 
STEVE So, what does the Russki want? 
DAVID Colonel Dymshitz asked specially to see you. 
STEVE 'Dim-shits'? 
INT. THE MANSION - DAY 
A huge, cavernous room, once the ballroom. 
In the centre, a table with four chairs. To one side, antique furniture, objets d'art, paintings. Four Allied officers are surveying the treasures: COLONEL DYMSHITZ, COLONEL GREEN (American), MAJOR RICHARDS (British) and CAPTAIN VERNAY (French). What they say is barely audible, low mumbles. They're accompanied by aides with clipboards, taking notes. 
Beyond, and some distance away, a row of gilt chairs for observers where David and Steve take their seats. 
STEVE What the hell are they doing? 
GREEN We can't drop a case just like that. 
DYMSHITZ I'll give you another conductor in exchange or writer, musician, actor what...what do you care?  But I like Furtwängler. He's my favourite conductor. (chuckles.) Mine and Hitler's. He's our favourite conductor. 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
Rode is seated, waiting. Nervous, tense. The sound of laughter, David's laughter from the office. It makes him even more uncomfortable. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE SUITE - DAY 
Emmi and David laughing. 
DAVID I clicked my heels, saluted and bowed at the same time. 
He demonstrates. She laughs again. 
EMMI That's because you had a proper upbringing. 
DAVID That's right. I was raised very strictly. So don't speak before you are spoken to! 
EMMI Oh! And don't wave your hands about! 
DAVID Respect your elders and your betters! 
EMMI And no elbows on the table! 
DAVID Eating is eating... and... 
EMMI And talking is talking! Well, I think we better get on. 
DAVID Right. So, this is going to be very formal, too, now. Lieutenant David Wills requests die pleasure of die company of Fraulein Emmi Straube at dinner any night she cares. 
She smiles just as Steve bursts in. He's in a bright, cheerful, energetic mood. 
David draws back guiltily. Emmi, embarrassed, hesitates then turns to the typewriter and types furiously. Seeing this, Steve stops, but just for a brief moment. Then, as he goes to his desk: 
STEVE David, need to ask you something. You heard this rumour the British found something called the Hinkel Archive? 
DAVID Yes. 
STEVE So what is it? 
DAVID The British occupy the building where this guy, Hinkel, ran the Nazi Ministry of Culture and it seems they've... they've discovered his secret archive. 
STEVE What's that mean? 
Steve and David preparing papers. 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
Furtwängler waiting. Emmi enters from the landing door carrying a tray and three mugs of coffee. She hurries towards the office door, eyes downcast. 
FURTWÄNGLER Fraulein? 
Emmi stops. 
FURTWÄNGLER How long am I to be kept waiting? 
Emmi bites her lip and, without looking at him, disappears into the office.  Furtwängler closes his eyes, breathes deeply. 
He stands, goes to the window, looks out. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Silence. Steve studying his notes. David watching him. Emmi staring forlornly into space. 
STEVE Okay, Emmi, go get him. 
Emmi rises, opens the door, nods, turns back to Steve. 
EMMI Dr. Furtwängler. 
Furtwängler enters. As he passes her, Emmi gives him a small curtsey. David nods. Steve doesn't look up. Furtwängler waits a moment, glances round, sees the more comfortable chair and sits in it. Steve looks up. 
STEVE I didn't hear anyone invite you to sit down. 
Furtwängler stands. Steve points to the other chair. 
STEVE Sit there. 
Furtwängler sits. 
STEVE I want you to understand why you're here. You're automatically banned from public life under Control Council Directive No 24. We're here to look into your case before you appear in front of the Tribunal for Artists of the Denazification Commission. You understand that? 
FURTWÄNGLER I have already been cleared by a Denazification Tribunal in Austria. 
STEVE What they do in Austria doesn't interest me one little bit. Okay? I have your questionnaire here, (reading) Gustav Heinrich Ernst Martin Wilhelm Furtwängler, born Berlin, January 1886. Orchestral conductor. And you say here you were never a member of the Nazi Party. 
FURTWÄNGLER That is correct. 
A very long silence. When the silence is unbearable Steve speaks. 
STEVE I keep hearing you helped a lot of Jews to escape. How did you do that? 
FURTWÄNGLER I don't remember in detail, there were so many. 
STEVE Did you call someone you knew? 
FURTWÄNGLER I may have, as... as I said, I simply don't remember. 
STEVE Let me me help you, then. You picked up the phone and made a call - (Mimes a telephone.) 'Hello, Adolf? Wilhelm speaking. Listen, old pal, there's a Jew-boy musician I want you to help. He needs a permit to get to Paris.' 
Emmi sticks her fingers in her ears and shuts her eyes tight. 
STEVE Or maybe you called Goebbels or Goering? You were so close you were in the same shithouse as them. 
FURTWÄNGLER May I ask a question? 
STEVE Sure. 
FURTWÄNGLER When will my case be heard by the Tribunal? 
STEVE Your guess is as good as mine. 
FURTWÄNGLER I need to work. I need to make my living. I live off the generosity of friends... 
STEVE Tough, tough! 
FURTWÄNGLER (now more and more agitated) Then why is it, please, that another conductor who was actually a member of the Party, who used to play the Horst Wessel before his concerts, has already been cleared and is working again while I have to wait and wait and wait? 
STEVE I don't know, he wasn't my case. Why did you escape to Switzerland just before the war ended? 
FURTWÄNGLER It was because I learned that the Gestapo was about to arrest me. 
STEVE Why were they going to arrest you? 
FURTWÄNGLER I believe it was because of another letter I'd written to Goebbels lamenting the decline of musical standards due to racial policies. 
STEVE You didn't complain about the racial policies, just about the musical standards, is that right? 
No response. 
STEVE So, how did you learn that the Gestapo was out to get you? 
FURTWÄNGLER During an enforced hour-long interval because of a power failure at a concert here in Berlin, Albert Speer, the Minister of Armaments, said to me, 'You look very tired Dr. Furtwängler, you should go abroad for a while.' I knew exactly what he meant. 
STEVE You sure knew a lot of people in high places. 
The sound of Steve laughing with delight.  Furtwängler hesitates. 
Emmi comes to the waiting-room door, watches, as if on guard. 
David comes round to face Furtwängler. 
DAVID (he gathers courage) When I was a child, my father, he took me to... he took me to one of your concerts. I remember you conducted Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. I was deeply moved. And I've loved music ever since. I was grateful to you. And I've admired you. How could you... how could you serve those criminals? 
He falls silent. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
Emmi, at the open door, has been listening. She's shocked, turns away to see Steve, on the extension, chuckling, grinning from ear to ear. 
STEVE How many?  Jesus, that's dynamite! Okay. 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
David and Furtwängler haven't moved. Both are looking towards Steve's office and Emmi in the doorway. 
Again the sound of Steve's laugh. Then Emmi steps into the room, approaches Furtwängler. 
EMMI Dr. Furtwängler. 
He gives her a wonderful smile.  And, suddenly, Steve stands in the doorway, smiling. 
STEVE Well now. Aren't we all sociable? 
The others are made awkward. 
STEVE I've got to hand it to the British, David. You know what those guys are?  Decent. (He sits, crosses his legs.) Tell me, Herr Dr. Furtwängler, do you know Hans Hinkel? 
FURTWÄNGLER Yes, a despicable human being. He was in the Ministry of Culture. His job was to get rid of Jews in the arts. 
STEVE Yup, that's him, that's the guy. You know what else the little creep did? He kept files, close on 250,000 files. And you know what's in those files? 
FURTWÄNGLER Certainly not, but I knew he had informers everywhere. Even in my orchestra there was someone 
STEVE Who? 
FURTWÄNGLER I wasn't told. I just knew it. 
STEVE How? 
FURTWÄNGLER (uneasy) I was warned. 
INT. HALL, STAIRWAY, STRAUBE APARTMENT BLOCK - NIGHT 
David and Emmi enter the hall, each locked in their own thoughts.  They reach the foot of the stairs and pause. They want to kiss but both are too awkward. She starts up the stairs. 
EMMI Don't see me to my door, there's no need. 
DAVID But I promised your mother. 
She stops, turns. 
EMMI Well, sleep well. 
She continues on her way. 
INT. ARCHIVE ROOM - DAY 
Steve and Emmi at work on the files. One or two BRITISH OFFICERS present, and David, who is working at the far end of the table. He has a cold. 
Emmi, who also has a cold, opens a file and is immediately alert. She reads. She blows her nose. She is uncertain. She looks up at Steve. She makes a decision. She rises, takes the file to Steve. 
EMMI Excuse me, Major. I found this on Helmuth Rode. You remember? The second violinist? Look, he's Austrian not German. But it's this that's more important, I think... 
She points to something. Steve laughs loudly. 
AN OFFICER Sssh! 
David looks up at them, puzzled. Then a British SERGEANT comes into the doorway. 
SERGEANT Lieutenant Wills, telephone - 
David rises and as he goes: 
THE OFFICER (exasperated) What is this, a railway station? 
INT. LOBBY, ARCHIVE BUILDING - DAY 
In a booth near the front desk, David is on the telephone. 
DAVID (into telephone) David. Wills. Hello? Who? Who in Wiesbaden? 
Irritated, he taps the receiver but the line's gone dead. 
EXT. LAKESIDE, BERLIN - DAY 
Steve lies, shirt off, taking the sun. Children playing. Noise behind him of someone in the bushes. Steve doesn't move. 
Rode looks around nervously, lowers his arm. 
STEVE And I see what you mean. You nearly poked my eyes out. 
RODE Exactly.  Replaces the baton, gives Steve the case. 
STEVE Don't worry, Helmuth, it'll be our secret. 
A ball comes bounding towards them. Steve catches it. Then a BOY runs in, looks hopeful. 
BOY Mister, mister, here, here, mister!!! 
Steve tosses the ball back to him. 
STEVE Great catch, kid. The boy runs off. 
RODE So. You wanted to see me. 
Steve pats the spot next to him and Rode sits. 
RODE You usually don't work on Sunday, Major? 
STEVE All in the cause of humanity, Helmuth. Or should I call you one- zero-four-nine-three-three-one? 
RODE What? 
STEVE One-zero-four-nine-three-three- one. Or d'you mind if I just call you 'one'? 
Rode makes an attempt to go but Steve grabs him. 
STEVE You know what I say you are, Helmuth? I say you're a piece of shit. 
Rode suddenly starts to retch. 
RODE That bastard! 
People by the lakeside: 
Faces turning at Rode's sobs. Impassive. Blank. 
Steve and Rode: 
STEVE Who's the bastard, Helmuth? Hinkel? 
Rode nods. 
STEVE Of course. You, too. Like everyone else in this goddamn country. 
EXT. WOOD, LAKESIDE - DAY 
Rode and Steve walking. Rode suddenly turns to him: 
RODE I've remembered something else... 
STEVE Yeah? 
RODE Furtwängler sent Hitler a telegram for his birthday. 
STEVE He did? 
RODE One of your people told me. 
STEVE One of my people? 
They start to walk away from the water. 
RODE Yes. A corporal. US Army. A Jew. He said he'd seen the telegram in the Chancellery. 
STEVE Son-of-a-gun. We'll find the corporal and we'll find the telegram. 
He stops, takes out a cigarette, offers one to Rode, lights them both, gives Rode the packet.  They smoke for a moment. 
STEVE But I need documentary proof. You know of anything like that? 
RODE No. But that's why we hated him. We admired him as a conductor but we all hated him too because he didn't have to join the Party and yet he had a better life than any of us. He didn't have to go and deliver a report after every trip abroad. He got everything from them, everything. He was filthier than any of us Party members. 
The sun is setting. Rode stops suddenly. 
RODE There's a rumour... I don't know if it's true or not... but ask him about von der Null. 
STEVE Never heard of him, who is he? 
RODE Edwin von der Null. Music critic. He gave Furtwängler terrible reviews while he raved about Herbert von Karajan. 
STEVE Who's he? 
RODE Also a conductor. Very brilliant. Young. Von der Null called him 'The Miracle von Karajan'. Furtwängler was outraged and they say he had von der Null conscripted into the army. The same thing happened to another critic. True or not, it's not such a bad idea. Critics give you bad reviews, you have them sent to the Russian front. (Chuckks.) But if you really want to get Furtwängler, ask him about Herbert von Karajan. 
STEVE The Miracle Kid. 
RODE Yes, yes you may notice that he cannot even bring himself to utter his name, he... he refers to him as K. 
MARTIN That's the evidence of a guy named Dahlerus. He's a Swede. Friend of Hermann Goering. I want you to study it. And I want you to use it. 
David tries to sneeze but fails; he starts to read. 
MARTIN We're going to find more stuff to feed you. We'll have some other suggestions. We need to build a case for the defence - based not on feelings, not on prejudice, but on facts. 
He watches David read. David is engrossed. Almost imperceptibly, he shakes his head. 
EXT. BERLIN STREET - DAY 
A half-ruined café with tables on the sidewalk. WERNER, the timpanist, SCHLEE, the oboist, and two others seated at one of the tables, drinking coffee. 
David carries an attaché case and walks towards the café. He scans the people at the tables, sees the musicians and approaches. They stand. 
WERNER Lieutenant Wills. 
David nods 
WERNER Herr Schlee, timpanist, Herr Romer, cello and Herr Schmidt, viola. They are willing to help. We have already ordered ourselves coffee. I hope you... 
DAVID Yeah, of course. 
WERNER The whole orchestra will vouch for him. He was always there to support us. 
DAVID We need names, if possible with addresses, because it's urgent. Names of musicians saved by Dr. Furtwängler, people he helped to escape abroad. Let's go somewhere public. 
David leaves money on the table and then walks off with the four men. They talk as they make their way down a side street. 
INT. DYMSHITZ'S VILLA - NIGHT 
Steve and Dymshitz sit opposite each other and clink vodka glasses.  They have been drinking but are not yet drunk. 
DYMSHITZ To co-operation. 
They drink. Dymshitz pours more vodka. 
STEVE I was in Vienna. I had with me an Austrian chauffeur, Max his name was, he spent time in the camps. We were looking at these Viennese cleaning up the bomb damage, scavenging for rotting food, butt ends, anything. I said, 'To think a million of these people came out to welcome Adolf on the day he entered the city, a million of 'em, and now look at 'em.'  And Max said, 'Oh, not these people, Major. These people were all at home hiding Jews in their attics.' You get the point, Colonel? The point is they're all full of shit. 
DYMSHITZ Furtwängler's in a different category. 
STEVE We're dealing with degenerates here. 
He is still for a moment, then grabs the bottle and pours himself a drink, downs it. Dymshitz watches him, then: 
DYMSHITZ Degenerates? 
STEVE I have a duty. 
DYMSHITZ (flaring) Duty? I am sorry, duty? Duty fucking duty. Trouble is, you Americans want everybody to live like you. We liberated Berlin, Major Steve, not you. Our duty also is to bring back the best of German culture. 
Dymshitz bursts out laughing. 
Stung, Steve advances on him, almost as if he's about to attack him physically. He stops, sways a little, then, after a moment, drops down in a chair near to Dymshitz. They drink. Intimate: 
STEVE I'm gonna get that fucking bandleader, Colonel. No deal. No fucking deal. 
DYMSHITZ Then you're going to kill me. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Drunk, Steve is clumsily, almost frantically, threading film into the 16-mm projector. 
He switches off the lights then stumbles back to the projector, turns it on and directs its beam towards a blank square of watt. 
It's an American military propaganda film. 
ARCHIVES You'll see ruins, you'll see flowers, you'll see some mighty pretty scenery, don't let it fool you. You are in enemy country. The Nazi party may be gone, but Nazi thinking, Nazi training and Nazi trickery remain. Somewhere in this Germany are two million ex-Nazi officials. Out of power but still in there and thinking, thinking about next time. Remember that only yesterday every business, every profession was part of Hitler's system. Practically every German was part of the Nazi network. They believed they were born to be masters. Don't argue with them. You are not being sent Germany as educators. You're a soldier on guard. You will observe their local laws, respect their costumes and religion and you will respect their property rights. You will not be friendly. You will be aloof, watchful and suspicious. 
Steve, swaying slightly, watches, with the film continuing. 
EXT.  FLEA MARKET - DAY 
Bright summer's day. Emmi pushing her way through the crowded market. She comes to the stall with gramophone records. 
David is with her, staying behind a little so as not to disturb her. 
She starts to look through the records, blowing her nose from time to time. Then she finds a box of records, opens it, is delighted. She bargains with the stallholder, and she hands over money. 
She shows her purchase to David happily. They struggle on in the crowd. David suddenly stops. He has spotted a tandem. The bicycle with two seats is old and rusty but seems to be in working order. David steps up to it, touches it. 
EXT. WOODLAND - DAY 
Two persons, Emmi and David, riding the tandem. Emmi in the front, pedalling, David behind. The road going up into the hills is full of potholes. They change seats. David is in the front, Emmi at the back. Suddenly the road begins to descend. They change again, Emmi sits in the front, David at the back. They speed down the hill. 
INT. BURNT-OUT DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY 
The tandem, ridden by Emmi and David, rolls into a huge building, black and burnt out. 
In the middle of the vast hall, surrounded by the staircase, there is a Christmas tree, almost burnt to cinder. Emmi and David stare at it, mesmerised. 
DAVID Yesterday I read that Furtwängler was asked to lead the New York Philharmonic back in '36, Toscanini suggested it. Had he accepted, he would have become the most celebrated conductor in America. 
INT. STEVE'S OFFICE - DAY 
David and Emmi look at him, puzzled. 
She goes to the door, opens it, nods. Rode quickly disappears.  Furtwängler looks at Emmi. 
FURTWÄNGLER What is this man doing here? 
Emmi doesn't answer. All eyes on the door.  Furtwängler enters. 
STEVE Dr. Furtwängler!  Come in, come in, sit down. 
Furtwängler, deeply suspicious, goes for the uncomfortable chair. 
STEVE No, no, take this one, it's more comfortable 
He holds the other chair for Furtwängler, who sits. 
STEVE If it's too hot, open your tie. 
FURTWÄNGLER (interrupting) I wish to say something. 
STEVE Go ahead, be my guest. 
Furtwängler takes from his pocket a piece of paper with notes. He blows his nose. The room is warming up. It will become like an airless court room, a pressure cooker. 
FURTWÄNGLER When I last saw you, I was unprepared. I did not know what to expect. In these past weeks, I have been thinking more carefully and making some notes. (glances at the notes.) You have to understand who I am and what I am. I am a musician and I believe in music. I am an artist and I believe in art. Art in general, and music, in particular, has for me mystical powers which nurture man's spiritual needs. I must confess, however, to being extremely naive.  I insisted for many years on the absolute separation of art and politics. My entire life was devoted to music because, and this is very important, because I thought that I could, through music, do something practical. 
STEVE And what was that? 
FURTWÄNGLER Maintain liberty, humanity and justice. 
STEVE Gee, that's a thing of beauty, honest to God, a real thing of beauty. I'm going to try to remember that. Liberty, humanity and justice. Beautiful. But you used the word 'naive'. Are you now saying you think you were wrong? That art and politics can't be separated? 
FURTWÄNGLER I believe art and politics should be separate, but that they weren't kept separate I learned to my cost. 
STEVE And when did you first learn that - when you sent the telegram? Was that the surrender signal, the waving of the white flag? 
FURTWÄNGLER What telegram? 
STEVE 'Happy birthday, dear Adolf, love Wilhelm.' Or words to that effect. That sounds to me like you were dropping on your knees and saying, 'Okay, Adolf, you win. You're the number one man. Have a swell party.' 
FURTWÄNGLER I have no idea what you're talking about. 
STEVE The birthday greetings you sent to your old pal, Adolf Hider. 
STEVE You sure you didn't call one of your close buddies and say, God in heaven, did you see what that guy von der Null wrote about me? The greatest conductor on earth. I want him out the way. He had the nerve to accuse me I am not playing enough modern music. Send him to Stalingrad. Isn't that what you did? You don't like criticism, do you, Wilhelm?  You surely didn't like them saying there was another conductor who was better than you... Are you saying the name von der Null was never mentioned in your talks with Goebbels? 
FURTWÄNGLER (uncomfortable) Well. Once he said he'd read what this man wrote about me. 
STEVE And what did he say? 
FURTWÄNGLER He said, 'Don't mind him. His job is to criticise, your job is to conduct.' 
STEVE And what happened to Von der Nul? 
FURTWÄNGLER I have no idea. 
STEVE You've really no idea? I'll tell you what happened. He died in Stalingrad. 
FURTWÄNGLER I'm sorry. 
STEVE Now, that young conductor what's his name? (playing with Furtwängler) That miracle kid, you know who I mean. Von Karajan! But you called him something else. C'mon. What did you call von Karajan? 
Silence. 
STEVE Say it. 
Silence. 
STEVE I'll say it, then. 'Little K.' Is that right? You couldn't even bear to say his name! 
Furtwängler rises angrily and starts to pace. 
FURTWÄNGLER Please stop playing these games with me. Why you should bring up the name of another conductor is beyond my understanding. 
STEVE I'll tell you why. You remember we talked about you playing for Hitler's birthday?  And you told me that Goebbels got to your doctors first, that you were tricked? 
FURTWÄNGLER Yes, that's what happened. 
He sits heavily, wipes his brow. He is sweating now. 
STEVE I have a different story to tell. I don't think you were tricked. Not in the way you describe. I believe something else happened. I've seen the Hinkel Archive, I've seen records of phone calls, and putting it all together, this is what I think happened. I think Goebbels said, 'Wilhelm, if you won't conduct for Adolf's birthday, we'll get the Miracle Kid, the guy that critic, von der Null, thinks is the greatest conductor in the world. He's not just willing to conduct for Adolf, he's offered to sing "Happy Birthday" as a solo.' 
Silence. 
STEVE Come on, admit it. K worried you, didn't he? He always worried you. In 1942, he's thirty-four years old, you're already fifty-six. And Goebbels and Goering keep saying to you, 'If you don't do it, little K will.' Never mind art and politics and symbols and airy-fairy bullshit about liberty, humanity and justice because I don't care how great you are. It's the oldest story in the book, (a wry look at David) The ageing Romeo jealous of the young buck. The real reason you didn't leave the country when you knew you should have was that you were frightened that, once you were out of the way, you'd be supplanted by the Miracle Kid, the Party's boy twice over, flashy, talented little K. 
FURTWÄNGLER This is absolute nonsense! 
STEVE Well, I'm just beginning to develop my theme. Isn't that what you call it in classical music, developing your theme? Okay, so they played on your insecurity. That's human, understandable. But, there is one guy who doesn't like little K as much as he likes you - yeah, the number one man your old pal, Adolf. He thinks you're the greatest, and when he says, I want Wilhelm for my birthday, boy, they better go out get Wilhelm. So, Josef calls and threatens you with little K. And you said to hell with the Ninth in Vienna, I'll give it to Adolf as a birthday present in Berlin. That's the trick they played, they got you by the balls and they squeezed. Hard. Why did you stay? Why did you play for them? Why were you the flag-carrier for their regime?  Jealousy? 
FURTWÄNGLER I don't understand what you mean. 
STEVE No, that's your problem, Wilhelm. You understand nothing. We'll call you. Go! 
Furtwängler leaves. 
DAVID Major. 
Steve goes to his desk and, as Furtwängler rises uncertainly: 
STEVE What? 
DAVID Your manner. 
STEVE My manner? Why don't you go downstairs, get a cup of coffee and calm down? What's the matter, Emmi? What's going on with you? What's wrong? 
EMMI I'm sorry but I have to leave. I'll find other work. You'll have to get someone else, that's all. 
STEVE What is this, Emmi? 
EMMI I can't do this. It's not right. 
STEVE What's not right? 
EMMI I have been questioned by the Gestapo just like that. Just like you questioned him. 
STEVE Emmi, stop! I want to show you something. Let me show you something and then if you want to leave, you can leave, please please. His friends, they did this. And he gave them birthday concerts. 
EMMI But he had no idea, a lot of people had no idea. I only realised what was really going on when I got arrested. 
STEVE If he had no idea, why did the Jews need saving? This is the question, Emmi, to all Germans: Why did the Jews need saving in this country? Why, if people had no idea? 
EMMI I would like to go now, please. 
But Steve turns on the projector and the Bergen-Belsen film flickers into life. 
INT. US OFFICERS' CLUB - NIGHT 
Band playing. Couples dancing. David and Steve at the bar, each with a drink in front of them, lost in their own thoughts. Then: 
Steve signs to the barkeeper to fill their glasses but David puts a hand over his glass. Then: 
DAVID Can I ask you a favour, Major? 
STEVE Yeah. 
DAVID This is a transcript of the proceedings at Nuremberg. A Swedish businessman, Birger Dahlerus, testified in cross- examination that he had several meetings with Hermann Goering. 'I first saw Goering,' Dahlerus testified, 'embroiled in a stormy interview with Wilhelm Furtwängler, the famous conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic, who was vainly seeking permission to keep his Jewish concert master. 
Holds up his package of letters and dumps them on Emmi's desk. 
DAVID Emmi, pick one of these, any one, read it out loud. 
Emmi is uncertain. Steve shrugs indifferently. 
She picks an envelope and takes out the letter. 
EMMI (reading) 'Please remember that Dr. Furtwängler risked his life to help anyone who asked him. I personally testify to having seen literally hundreds of people lined up outside his dressing room after concerts to ask for his help. He never turned anyone away. After he heard me play... I am a violinist... he gave me money because I was unable to feed myself or my family and then he helped me to escape to Sweden. He helped countless people in similar ways.' 
DAVID And this, only one of these letters, Major. I have lots of them. 
STEVE (smiling) How many times have I got to tell you I was in insurance? You think I can't smell a phoney policy when it's shoved under my nose? Sure, he helped Jews, but that was just insurance, his cover, because all the while he was maestro of all he surveyed, (turning on Furtwängler) See, Wilhelm, I think you're their boy, their creature. You were like an advertising slogan for them: this is what we produce, the greatest conductor in the world. And you went along with it. The truth of the matter is, Wilhelm, you didn't need to be a member of the Party. I made a mistake when I asked you for your Party number. I should've asked you for your non- Party number. Just like some other well-known artists. (suddenly, to Emmi) Emmi, put that record on. 
Emmi puts on the record of the Adagio from Bruckner's Seventh Symphony. After a moment: 
STEVE Do you know what that is? 
FURTWÄNGLER Of course I know what that is. 
STEVE Okay, so what is it? 
FURTWÄNGLER Bruckner's Seventh. The Adagio. 
STEVE Who's conducting? 
FURTWANGLBR I am. 
STEVE You know the last time it was played on these air waves? 
FURTWÄNGLER How can I know such a thing? 
STEVE I'll tell you, then. The last time this music was played on these air waves was after they announced that your pal Hitler had shot himself. Listen to it.  They listen. Did they pick little K's recording? Did they pick some other conductor? No, they picked you, and why? Because you represented them so beautifully. When the Devil died, they wanted his bandleader to conduct the funeral march. You were everything to them. 
The music plays. 
FURTWÄNGLER (near to breakdown but struggling for control) I have always tried to analyse myself carefully and closely. In staying here, I believed I walked a tightrope between exile and the gallows. You seem to be blaming me for not having allowed myself to be hanged. 
David takes the record off. 
FURTWÄNGLER I didn't directly oppose the Party because I told myself, that was not my job. If I had taken any active part in politics I could not have remained here. But as a musician, I am more than a citizen. I am a citizen of this country in that eternal sense to which the genius of great music testifies. I know that a single performance of a great masterpiece was a stronger and more vital negation of the spirit of Buchenwald and Auschwitz than words. 
An uncontrollable surge of anger wells up in Steve, causing him to pace alarmingly. He grabs the baton from his desk, stands trembling before Furtwängler, and snaps it in half. 
