"TERMINATOR 2: JUDGEMENT DAY" 
a Screenplay 
by 
James Cameron 
and 
William Wisher 
Revised final shooting script 
1       EXT. CITY STREET - DAY 
Downtown L.A.  Noon on a hot summer day.  On an EXTREME LONG LENS the lunchtime crowd stacks up into a wall of humanity.  In SLOW MOTION they move in herds among the glittering rows of cars jammed bumper to bumper.  Heat ripples distort the torrent of faces.  The image is surreal, dreamy... and like a dream it begins very slowly to 
DISSOLVE TO: 
2       EXT. CITY RUINS - NIGHT 
Same spot as the last shot, but now it is a landscape in Hell.  The cars are stopped in rusted rows, still bumper to bumper.  The skyline of buildings beyond has been shattered by some unimaginable force like a row of kicked-down sandcastles. Wind blows through the desolation, keening with the sound of ten million dead souls.  It scurries the ashes into drifts, stark white in the moonlight against the charred rubble. A TITLE CARD FADES IN: 
LOS ANGELES, July 11, 2029 
3       ANGLE ON a heap of fire-blackened human bones.  Beyond the mound is a vast tundra of skulls and shattered concrete.  The rush hour crowd burned down in their tracks. 
4       WE DISSOLVE TO a playground... where intense heat has half-melted the jungle gym, the blast has warped the swing set, the merry-go-round has sagged in the firestorm.  Small skulls look accusingly from the ash-drifts.  WE HEAR the distant echo of children's voices... playing and laughing in the sun.  A silly, sing-songy rhyme as WE TRACKS SLOWLY over seared asphalt where the faint hieroglyphs of hopscotch lines are still visible. 
CAMERA comes to rest on a burnt and rusted tricycle... next to the tiny skull of its owner.  HOLD ON THIS IMAGE as a female VOICE speaks: 
VOICE 3 billion human lives ended on August 29th, 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day.  They lived only to face a new nightmare, the war against the Machines... 
A metal foot crushes the skull like china. 
TILT UP, revealing a humanoid machine holding a massive battle rifle. It looks like a CHROME SKELETON... a high-tech Death figure.  It is the endoskeleton of a Series 800 terminator.  Its glowing red eyes compassionlessly sweep the dead terrain, hunting. 
The SOUNDS of ROARING TURBINES.  Searchlights blaze down as a formation of flying HK (Hunter-Killer) patrol machines passes overhead.  PAN WITH THEM toward the jagged horizon, beyond which we see flashes, and hear the distant thunder of a pitched battle in progress. 
5       EXT. BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT 
THE BATTLE.  Human troops is desperate combat with the machines for possession of the dead Earth.  The humans are a ragtag guerrilla army.  Skynet's weapons consist of Ground HKs (tank-like robot gun-platforms), flying Aerial HKs, four-legged gun-pods called Centurions, and the humanoid terminators in various forms. 
SEQUENCE OF RAPID CUTS: 5A      Explosions!  Beam-weapons firing like searing strobe-light. 5B      A gunner is an armored personnel carrier fires a LAW rocket at a pursuing Aerial HK, bringing it down in a fiery explosion. 5C      Another APC is crushed under the treads of a massive Ground HK. 
5D      A TEAM OF GUERRILLAS in a intense fire-fight with terminator 5E      endoskeletons in the ruins of a building.  Three terminator 5F      endoskeletons advance, firing rapidly.  Another (complete cyborg), with flesh ripped open and back broken, gropes for a rifle on the ground. 
5G      A Centurion overruns a human firing position.  Soldiers are cut down as they run.  Fiery explosions light the ranks of advancing machines. 
6       IN A BLASTED GUN EMPLACEMENT at the edge of battle, a man watches the combat with night-vision binoculars.  He wears the uniform of a guerrilla general, and a black beret.  He is still amid running, shouting techs and officers. 
C.U. MAN, pushing slowly in as the battle rages O.S.  He lowers the binoculars.  He is forty-five years old.  Features severe.  The left side of his face is heavily scarred.  A patch covers that eye.  An impressive man, forged in the furnace of a lifetime of war.  The name stitched on the band of his beret is CONNOR.  We push in until his eyes fill frame, then... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
FIRE.  SLOW, BOILING, ENORMOUS.  FILLING FRAME. 
VOICE (SARAH CONNOR) Skynet, the computer which controlled the machines, sent two terminators back through time.  Their mission: to destroy the leader of the human Resistance... John Connor.  My son. 
The first terminator was programmed to strike at me, in the year 1984... before John was born. It failed. 
The second was set to strike at John himself, when he was still a child.  As before, the Resistance was able to send a lone warrior.  A protector for John.  It was just a question of which one of them would reach him first... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
7       EXT. TRUCKSTOP - NIGHT 
Wild fingers of BLUE-WHITE ELECTRIC ARCS dance in a steel canyon formed by two TRACTOR TRAILERS, parked side by side in the back lot of an all-night truck stop.  Then... 
The strange lightning forms a circular opening in mid-air, and in the sudden flare of light we see a FIGURE in a SPHERE OF ENERGY. Then the FRAME WHITES OUT with an explosive THUNDERCLAP! 
Through the clearing vapor we see the figure clearly... a naked man. TERMINATOR has come through.  Physique: massive, perfect.  Face: devoid of emotion.  Terminator stands and impassively surveys its surroundings. 
8       INT. TRUCK STOP DINER - NIGHT 
On a back route to north L.A.  A handful of local TRUCKERS hunch over chili-sizes, CAT hats pushed back on their heads.  Three BIKERS are playing a game of pool in the back, their Miller empties lining the table's rail.  The dive's owner, LLOYD, a fat, aging biker-type in a soiled apron, stands behind the bar.  Nothing much going on... 
13C     HIGHLY POLISHED BLACK SHOES rounding the rear tire of the police cruiser.  FOLLOW THE SHOES to the cruiser's door then MOVE UP as Mr. X, dressed now in LAPD blue, climbs behind the wheel.  He looks and acts exactly like a cop.  Cool, alert, confident in his power, his expression emotionless and judgmental. Mr. X, now Officer X, puts the car in gear and drives into the night. 
CUT TO: 
14      INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE/GARAGE - DAY 
TIGHT ON YOUNG JOHN CONNOR, who at his moment is ten years old and busy reassembling the carburetor on his Honda 125 dirtbike.  He has ripped Levi's and long stringy hair.  A sullen mouth.  Eyes which reveal an intelligence as sharp as a scalpel.  The Ramones' "I Wanna Be Sedated" blasts from a boom box next to him. 
A WOMAN, JANELLA VOIGHT, stands in the doorway of the garage, yelling over the music. 
WOMAN ...John?  John!  Get in here right now and clean up that pigsty of yours. 
John's friend TIM, a thirteen-year-old Hispanic kid, watches as John replies by turning up the volume on the boom box. Janelle gives up with a SLAM of the house's back door. 
TIM Your foster parents are kinda dicks, right? 
JOHN Gimme that Phillips right there. 
15      INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM 
Janelle storms into the room.  TOD VOIGHT, her husband, watches sports on the TV.  They're both in their thirties.  Middle-class working stiffs. 
JANELLE I swear I've had it with that goddamn kid. He won't even answer me. (neither does he) Todd?  Are you gonna sit there or are you gonna do something? 
He sighs.  Throws down the TV's remote and heads for the garage. 
16      INT. GARAGE 
John hops on the bike.  Kick-starts it.  Tim picks up John's nylon bag, then climbs on the back.  Todd ENTERS and shouts over the engine, which John revs louder and louder. 
TODD John!  Get your ass inside right now and do what your mother says! 
John pins Todd with a defiant glare. 
JOHN She's not my mother, Todd! 
He revs the engine and peels out of the garage, with Tim almost falling off the back.  They take off down the street. 
17      EXT. VACANT LOT/DRAINAGE CANAL 
John cuts through a vacant lot to a trail running beside a fenced-in drainage canal.  He guns the bike through a hole in the retaining fence.  Tim's eyes go wide as they roar down the concrete embankment. 
17A     IN THE DRAINAGE CANAL John zig-zags along, throwing up a roostertail of muddy water.  Tim shouts, pretending he didn't just see his life flash before his eyes.  He slaps John on the back. 
TIM Major moves, homes!  So... where is your real mom, anyway? (John doesn't answer) She dead or something? 
It's hard to read John's expression. 
JOHN She might as well be. 
John twists the throttle angrily and the bike lunges forward. 
CUT TO: 
18      EXT. PESCADERO STATE HOSPITAL - DAY 
A SIGN on a chain link fence topped with concertina wire reads: PESCADERO STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE.  Beyond it squats an imposing four-story building.  Institutional brick. Barred windows.  About as inviting as KGB headquarters.  Security guards patrol the manicured grass. 
19      INT. HOSPITAL - MAXIMUM SECURITY WING 
Sunlight is a barred slash on the bare institutional wall.  The room is empty of all furnishings save the bed, a stainless steel sink, toilet, and a dented metal mirror.  WE HEAR a rhythmic grunting, small explosions of breath in perfectly-metered time. 
PAN TO a bedframe leaned upright against the wall, legs facing outward.  A pair of sweaty hands grip one leg.  Tendons knot and release as SOMEONE does pull-ups.  A man of tangled hair hides the face that comes INTO FRAME, dips out, comes back. 
WIDER.  A WOMAN in a tank top and hospital pants in hanging from the top leg of the vertical bedframe.  Her body is straight and taut. Knees bent so the feet clear the ground.  The arms are lean and muscular.  The inmate, face hidden, pulls up, dips, pulls up.  Like a machine.  No change in rhythm. 
20      INT. HOSPITAL/CORRIDOR 
FIGURES MOVE TOWARD US down a corridor of polished tile and two- tone walls.  DR. PETER SILBERMAN, a smug criminal psychologist, leads a group of young INTERNS.  Following laconically, are THREE BURLY ATTENDANTS. 
SILBERMAN The next patient is a 29-year old female diagnosed as acute schizo-affective disorder. The usual indicators... depression, anxiety, violent acting-out, delusions of persecution. (the interns nod judiciously) Here we are. 
Silberman stops at one of the SOUNDPROOF STEEL DOORS.  There is a two- way speaker beneath a tiny window.  Silberman flips the intercom switch. 
21      INT. CELL 
Silberman's scrubbed and cheerful face at cell window.  HIS VOICE comes over the tinny speaker. 
TIM So she's pretty cool, huh? 
JOHN Actually, no, she's a complete psycho.  That's why she's up at Pescedero.  She tries to blow up a computer factory, but she got shot and arrested. 
TIM No shit? 
JOHN Yeah, she's a total loser.  C'mon, let's check out the 7-Eleven, whatya say? 
John has tried to sound casual, but we see in his eyes that is really hurts.  He slaps Tim on the shoulder and they jump onto his Honda. John fires up and they whine off down the alley. 
CUT TO: 
26      INT. POLICE CRUISER - DAY 
CLOSE ON COMPUTER TERMINAL, attached to the dash.  A Juvenile Division file.  Subject: John Connor.  Below his ARREST RECORD are his vital stats.  Mother: Sarah Connor.  Legal Guardians: Todd and Janelle Voight.  And below their names, an address: 523 S. Almond. Reseda, Ca. 
OFFICER X stares at the screen for a moment.  Then gets out the car. 
27      INT./EXT. VOIGHT HOUSE - DAY 
TIGHT ON FRONT DOOR as Todd Voight opens it, revealing the unsmiling face of Officer X beyond the screen door.  Todd greets him with a weary sigh. 
OFFICER X Are you the legal guardian of John Connor? 
TODD That's right, officer.  What's he done now? 
Officer X ignores the question.  He casually scans the living room. 
OFFICER X Could I speak with him, please? 
Todd shrugs, showing the cop he's past his patience with the boy. 
TODD Well, you could if he was here.  Be he took off on his bike this morning.  Could be anywhere. You gonna tell me what his is about? 
OFFICER X I just need to ask him a few questions. 
Janelle appears in the doorway behind Todd, concerned. 
JANELLE There was a guy here this morning asking about him, too. 
TODD Yeah, big guy.  On a bike.  Has that got something to do with it? 
Officer X registers the significance of that.  He realizes who the big guy must be.  He smiles.  Reassuringly shakes his head no. 
OFFICER X I wouldn't worry.  Do you have a photograph of John? 
Todd stares unhappily at the cop.  Turns to Janelle. 
TODD Get the album, Janelle. 
CUT TO: 
28      EXT. STREET 
ANGLE THROUGH AN ALLEY from the main street.  We see John and Tim flash by on the Honda a block away.  Hold a beat.  Then... 
A BIG CHROME WHEEL ENTERS FRAME.  BOOM UP a leather-clad leg to Terminator's implacable face.  It surveys the area slowly as the bike idles, then kicks it into gear and moves on, scanning in a slow shark-like manner, not aware that it missed its prey by seconds. 
CUT TO: 
29      INT. SARAH'S CELL - DAY 
CLOSE ON SARAH.  She is shackled, hands and feet, to the bed. Sunlight falls across her pale face.  A hand enter frame, gently stroking her cheek.  She wakes up to see -- 
KYLE REESE.  Sitting on the edge of her bed, looking exactly the same as we last saw him in 1984.  Scruffy blonde hair and a long raincoat. 
SARAH Kyle..?  You're dead. 
He gives her a gentle smile. 
REESE I know.  This is a dream, Sarah. 
SARAH Oh.  Yeah.  They... make me take this stuff... 
He puts a finger to her lips.  Then silently unfastens her restraints. They gaze into each other's eyes.  And in the look that his death and the horror she has been through since hasn't touched their love at all. 
SARAH Hold me. 
VIDEO SARAH You think you're alive and safe, but you're already dead.  Everybody, you, him... (she gestures are the attendant) everybody... you're all fucking dead! 
She is raving, half out of her chair.  The orderly moves to inject her with something. 
VIDEO SARAH You're the one living in a dream, Silberman, not me!  Because I know it happens.  It happens! 
31C     Silberman pauses the tape... freezing Sarah's contorted face. Real Sarah turns away from the screen, he expression stony. 
SARAH I was afraid... and confused.  I feel much better, now.  Clearer. 
Silberman gives a calculated paternal smile. 
SILBERMAN Yes.  Your attitude have been very positive lately. 
Sarah looks up at him.  Her voice is hopeful. 
SARAH It has helped me a lot to have a goal, something to look forward to. 
SILBERMAN And what it that? 
As she answers, WE PULL BACK, revealing that we have been looking through a one-way mirror from an adjacent OBSERVATION ROOM.  In the shadows of the observation room we see that interns from the earlier rounds, and a couple of STAFF PSYCHOLOGISTS.  They smoke and make the occasional note. 
SARAH You said I could be transferred to the minimum security wing and have visitors if I showed improvement in six months.  Well, it's been six months, and I was looking forward to seeing my son. 
SILBERMAN I see.  Let's go back to what you were saying about these terminator machines.  Now you think they don't exist? 
CLOSE ON SARAH.  Her voice sounds hollow. 
SARAH They don't exist.  I see that now. 
Silberman leans back, studying her.  Toying with her. 
SILBERMAN But you've told me on many occasions about how you crushed one in a hydraulic press. 
SARAH If I had, there would have been some evidence. They would have found something at the factory. 
SILBERMAN I see.  So you don't believe anymore that the company covered it up? 
Sarah shakes her head no. 
CUT TO: 
32      EXT. CYBERDYNE SYSTEMS - DAY 
The corporate headquarters of a mega-electronic corporation.  As imposing cubist castle of black glass. 
33      INT. SECOND FLOOR/ELEVATORS 
The elevator doors slide open with a whisper and MILES DYSON strides out.  Black.  In his early thirties.  The star of the Special Projects Division.  He's brilliant, aggressive, driven.  Dyson walks down the corridor, swinging his arms... a man in a hurry.  A man with much to do. 
He reaches a solid security door and zips his ELECTRONIC KEY-CARD through the scanner.  The door unlocks with a clunk. The sign next to the door reads: SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION: AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY. 
34      INT. SECURITY STATION 
He nods to the guards as he passes through the security checkpoint. They can see all activities on the floor on their bank of monitors. He unlocks another service door with his card and enters -- 
35      INT. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (A.I.) LAB 
The lab is quite large, comprising banks of processors, disk drives, test bays, prototype assembly areas.  Extremely high tech. 
DYSON Greetings, troops. 
He is jokingly saluted by fellow members.  Not a lab coat in sight. This is strictly jeans and sneakers crowd.  All young and bright. They sit at their consoles drinking Coke and changing technology as we know it.  A young LAB ASSISTANT rushes over to Dyson.  Name tag says he's BRYANT. 
BRYANT Mr. Dyson?  The material teams wants to run another test on the uh... on it. 
DYSON Yup.  Come on.  I'll get it. 
Dyson produces an unusual-looking KEY from his pocket as they stride through the lab.  Bryant has to hustle to keep up. 
BRYANT Listen, Mr. Dyson, I know I haven't been here that long, but I was wondering if you could tell me... I mean, if you know... 
DYSON Know what? 
BRYANT Well... where it came from. 
DYSON I asked them that question once.  Know what they told me?  Don't ask. 
John gives him an amazed look. 
JOHN This is deep. 
50      EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
John and Terminator on the bike again, weaving through the side streets.  They blend into the evening traffic.  In the darkness, Terminator's wounds are not readily visible.  John cranes his head up and back. 
JOHN So this other guy?  He's a terminator too, right, like you? 
TERMINATOR Not like me.  A T-1000.  Advanced prototype. A mimetic polyalloy. 
JOHN What does that mean? 
TERMINATOR Liquid metal. 
JOHN Radical. 
TERMINATOR You are targeted for termination.  The T-1000 will not stop until it complete its mission. Ever. 
John mulls that over. 
JOHN Where we going? 
TERMINATOR We have to leave the city, immediately.  And avoid the authorities. 
JOHN Can I stop by my house? 
TERMINATOR Negative.  The T-1000 will definitely try to reacquire you there. 
JOHN You sure? 
TERMINATOR I would. 
CUT TO: 
51      EXT. PAYPHONE 
John is quickly going through his pockets for change.  He has plenty of bills but no quarters. 
JOHN Look, Todd and Janelle are dicks but I gotta warn them.  Shit!  You got a quarter? 
Terminator reaches past John and smashes the cover plate off the phone's cash box with the heel of his hand.  A shower of change tumbles out.  Terminator hands one to John.  John dials. 
52      INT. VOIGHT HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Janelle Voight picks up the kitchen phone and cradles it with her shoulder which she continues to chop vegetables with a large knife. She answers sweetly. 
JANELLE Hello? 
JOHN (filtered through phone) Janelle?  It's me. 
In the backyard, John's German Shepherd is going bonkers, barking at something. 
JANELLE John?  Where are you, honey?  It's late.  You should come home, dear.  I'm making a casserole. 
AT THE PAYPHONE.  John listens, an odd look on his face.  He covers the phone's mouthpiece and turns to Terminator. 
JOHN (whispering) Something's wrong.  She's never this nice. 
IN THE VOIGHTS' KITCHEN.  Todd comes through the kitchen's back door. Just home from work.  He ignores Janelle and opens the fridge.  Grabs a carton of milk.  Takes a sip.  Frowns at the dog's barking. 
TODD What the hell's the goddamn dog barking at? SHUT UP, YOU MUTT! 
TIGHT ON JANELLE as Todd growls around the kitchen behind her.  He passes OUT OF FRAME next to her.  Janelle switches the phone to her other hand then... THUNK!  Her free hand seems to do something out of frame.  There is a gurgling, and the sound of liquid dribbling onto the floor. (Don't go away.  We'll find out what happened in a moment) 
AT THE PAYPHONE 
JOHN The dog's really barking.  Maybe it's already there.  What should I do? 
Terminator takes the phone from John's hand.  Janelle's voice is floating through the receiver. 
JANELLE (filtered) John?  John, are you okay? 
Terminator speaks into the phone in a perfect imitation of John's voice... 
TERMINATOR (in John's voice) I'm right here.  I'm fine. (to John, a whisper) What's the dog's name? 
JOHN Hey, goddammit!  What's your problem? 
Starts dragging John back to the bike.  John spots a couple of collage-age slab-o-meat JOCK-TYPES across the street and starts yelling to them. 
JOHN Help!  HELP!!  I'm being kidnapped!  Get this psycho off of me! 
The TWO JOCKS start toward him.  John yells in outrage to Terminator. 
JOHN Let go of me!! 
To his surprise, Terminator's hand opens so fast John falls right on his butt. He looks up at the open hand. 
JOHN Oww!  Why'd you do that? 
TERMINATOR You told me to. 
John stares at him in amazement as he realizes... 
JOHN You have to do what I say?! 
TERMINATOR That is one of my mission parameters. 
JOHN Prove it... stand on one foot. 
Terminator expressionlessly lifts one leg. John grins.  He's the first on his block... 
JOHN Cool!  My own terminator.  This is great! 
The two guys get there and look at Terminator standing there calmly with one leg up in the air.  This big guy in black leather and dark glasses, standing like a statue. 
FIRST JOCK Hey, kid.  You okay? 
John turns to him.  No longer needing to be rescued. 
JOHN Take a hike, bozo. 
FIRST JOCK Yeah?  Fuck you, you little dipshit. 
JOHN Dipshit?  Did you say dipshit?! (to Terminator) Grab this guy. 
Terminator complies instantly, hoisting him one-handed by the collar. the guy's legs are pinwheeling. 
JOHN Now who's the dipshit, you jock douchebag? 
Immediately, things get out of hand.  The guy's friend jumps behind Terminator and tries to grab him in a full nelson -- Terminator throws the first guy across the hood of a car -- Grabs the second by the hair, whips out his .45 in a quick blur, and aims the muzzle at the guy's forehead. John grabs Terminator's arm with a yell as he pulls the trigger -- John's weight is just enough to deflect the gun a few inches.  The guy flinches, stunned by the K-BOOM next to his ear.  He stares, shocked.  Pissing himself.  John is freaking out, too. He screams at Terminator. 
JOHN Put the gun down!  NOW!! 
Terminator sets the .45 on the sidewalk.  John scoops it up fast then turns to the shocked civilians, who can't believe what just happened. 
JOHN Walk away. 
They do.  Fast.  John grabs Terminator by the arm and tugs him toward the bike.  John still holds the gun, reluctant to give it back. 
JOHN Jesus... you were gonna kill that guy! 
TERMINATOR Of course.  I'm a terminator. 
John stares at him.  Having your own terminator just became a little bit less fun to him. 
JOHN Listen to me, very carefully, okay?  You're not a terminator any more.  Alright?  You got that? You can't just go around killing people! 
TERMINATOR Why? 
JOHN Whattaya mean, why?  'Cause you can't! 
TERMINATOR Why? 
JOHN You just can't, okay?  Trust me on this. 
Terminator doesn't get it.  John just stares at him.  Frightened at what just almost happened.  He gets a glimpse of the responsibility that comes with power.  Finally he hands the .45 back to Terminator, who puts it away. 
JOHN Look, I'm gonna go get my mom.  You wanna come along, that's fine with me. 
CUT TO: 
58      INT. VOIGHT HOUSE/BEDROOM - NIGHT 
250 pounds of doughy attendant hit the floor like a sack of cement. Sarah slams the makeshift baton down expertly across the back of his head, bouncing him off the linoleum.  Lights out, Douglas. She drags him into her cell and locks him in with his own keys.  Then swaps her mop-handle for his nice heavy night-stick. 
65B     Sarah moves down the dark corridor, cat-stepping in her bare feet. She holds the baton like a pro, laid back along the forearm, police- style.  She looks dangerous. 
CUT TO: 
66      INT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE/CORRIDOR 
A long corridor ends at a reception area, which is closed, and a NIGHT RECEIVING DESK, which is a glass window where they can buzz you in through a heavy door.  A NIGHT NURSE types at a desk nearby.  She looks up at the sound of footsteps and sees a young cop (T-1000) walking toward her. 
T-1000 You have a Sarah Connor here? 
She assumes he's with the other cops.  Smiles. 
NIGHT NURSE Running late, aren't you? 
She turns to the inner door to buzz him in and sees Silberman and the cops coming toward the door from the other side. 
NIGHT NURSE Your friends are on their way out now... 
When she turns back to the window, T-1000's no longer there.  She goes to the counter and leans out to see if he's at the drinking fountain or someplace.  No.  Reception is empty.  And so is the long corridor beyond.  She frowns.  Too weird. 
66A     Silberman comes through the solenoid door with Mossberg and Weathersby, the two uniformed cops, and the hospital security guard. The guard retrieves his 9mm pistol from a lock-out box behind the night desk.  Silberman faces him. 
SILBERMAN Lewis, see these gentleman out and them lock up for the night. 
The security guard nods.  Silberman goes back into the secure area of the hospital and the cops walk down the long corridor to the main doors.  No sign of T-1000.  Mossberg and the other cops exit, and the guard locks the door behind them. 
66B     The guard walks slowly back along the long corridor.  The hall is dark, with the light at the night desk far ahead like a sanctuary. His footsteps ring hollowly on the tile floor.  His keys jingle. 
66C     ANGLE ON FLOOR as the guard's feet pass through FRAME.  An instant later the floor starts to move. It shivers and bulges upward like a liquid mass, still retaining the two-tone checkerboard of the tile.  It hunches up silently into a quivering shadow in the darkness past the guard. 
66D     Up ahead we hear typing.  The night nurse has her back to us, working. The guard stops as the drinking fountain.  Bends to take a sip. Behind him the fluid mass as reaches six feet of height and begins to resolve rapidly into a human figure.  It loses the color and texture of the tile and becomes... THE GUARD. 
T-1000's mass has been spread out a quarter of an inch thick over several square yards of floor.  The guard walked over the T-1000, and his structure was sampled that instant.  Now we see it drawing in and pulling up to form the figure of the guard. 
The T-1000/Guard's feet are the last to form, the last of the "liquid floor" pulling in to form shiny black guard shoes.  The shoes detach with a faint sucking sound from the real floor as the T-1000/Guard takes its first step. 
66E     The real guard spins at the sound of footsteps to see... himself. He has one deeply disturbing moment to consider the ramifications of that.  Then he sees his double calmly raise its hand and, inexplicably, points his right index finger directly at the real guard's face, about a foot away.  In a split second, the finger spears out, elongating into a thin steel rod which snaps out like a stiletto, slamming into the guard's eye. It punches into the corner of the eye, past the eyeball like a trans- orbital lobotomy tool, and emerges from the back of the guard's skull. 
Life quietly empties from the guard's face.  He is dead weight, hanging from the rod/finger with suddenly reacts -- SSSNICK.  As the guard slumps, the T-1000 takes his weight easily with one hand and walks him, like it's carrying a suit on a hanger, back toward the night desk.  The wounds are so tiny, no blood drips onto the floor. 
66F     ON THE NIGHT NURSE, glancing up as the T-1000/Guard walks past, dragging something casually which she can't see because it's below the countertop. 
NIGHT NURSE Whatcha got, Lewis? 
T-1000/GUARD Just some trash. 
She nods, uninterested.  Keeps typing.  T-1000 moves past, dragging the unseen guard toward a closet down the hall from the night receiving station.  T-1000/Guard removes the Browning High-Power pistol and the keys from the real guard's belt, then stuffs the body into the utility closet. 
66G     INT. CORRIDOR/NIGHT RECEIVING DESK 
T-1000/Guard comes back out and glances at the nurse. 
T-1000/GUARD All set. 
She glances toward it.  Sees the Beretta in its holster. 
NIGHT NURSE Gotta check the gun first, Lewis. 
T-1000/GUARD Yeah, sorry. 
T-1000 opens the locker and blocks it from her view with its body as it mimes putting the gun in. 
66H     CLOSE ANGLE ON T-1000'S CHEST, from inside the locker.  Instead of setting the gun in the locker, it inserts the pistol into it own chest, where is disappears inside like it was dropped into a pot of hot fudge.  It withdraws its hand.  The chest is once again a surface that looks like cloth, buttons, name-tag etc.  You'd ever guess it was really an intelligent liquid metal. 
T-1000 slams the locker door and waits as the nurse hits the button unlocking the door with a BUZZ-CLACK.  T-1000/Guard goes through. 
CUT TO: 
67      INT. ISOLATION SECURITY CHECKPOINT 
A small room before a short SALLY-PORT corridor designed to prevent violent inmates from making a run for it.  There are doors at each end.  The first one is barred like a jail-cell door, and the second is a steel fire door.  The attendants have a video monitor with which they can see the corridor on the other side of the doors. 
The two bored attendants barely notice the T-1000/Guard as it approaches.  Looks briefly at a chart next to the door, seeing SARAH CONNOR is in #19. 
67A     IN THE ISOLATION WARD, the T-1000 passes a nurses' station which looks a cage, walled in by heavy metal mesh.  Silberman, leaning in the open doorway, is talking to an attendant in the cage.  He doesn't glance twice at Lewis the Guard passing by. 
81B     TERMINATOR'S POV.  A monochrome image of the highway lit bright as day. 
81C     Terminator replies in a matter-of-fact tone. 
TERMINATOR Everything. 
JOHN Cool. 
Sarah looks at Terminator, still not quite believing this is happening.  But this is a different Sarah than the waitress of 1984. She spends only a second or two dealing with the unbelievable. Then she turns to John in the back seat. 
SARAH You okay? 
He nods.  She reaches for John and we think she's going to hug him. She starts to rub her hands over him and we realize she's checking for injuries, very clinically the way a vet checks a dog for broken bones. 
He pulls away from her.  He hates her always checking him, treating him like he might break, like some piece of rare china. 
JOHN I said I was okay. 
Sarah looks at him, exasperated and stern. 
SARAH It was stupid of you to go there. 
John stares at her, surprised. 
SARAH Goddamnit, John, you have to be smarter than that.  You're too important!  You can't risk yourself, not even for me, do you understand? I can take care of myself.  I was doing fine. Jesus, John.  You almost got yourself killed. 
We see his chin quiver.  He's a tough kid, but all he really wants is for her to love him.  He hasn't had enough years on the planet yet to be the man of steel she demands. 
JOHN I... had to get you out of the place... I'm sorry, I... 
His face crumples.  He starts to cry.  Sarah gives him a cold stare. 
SARAH Stop it!  Right now!  You can't cry, John. Other kids can afford to cry.  You can't. 
He's trying to be brave, he really is.  Terminator turns and sees the water leaking from his eyes.  It doesn't make and sense to him. 
TERMINATOR What is wrong with your eyes? 
John turns away, ashamed.  Sarah lets her breath out, realizing how keyed up she is.  She turns to Terminator, giving him a wary once- over. 
SARAH So what's your story? 
CUT TO: 
82      EXT. MENTAL HOSPITAL 
The cops have shown up, as they always do.  There are black-and-whites everywhere, and ambulances are arriving.  Two cops and an orderly are required to subdue poor Doctor Silberman, who is raving at the top of his lungs. 
SILBERMAN ... it was all true and we're all going to die and the changed, I saw him change!! 
It's quite pathetic. A nurse shoots him up with a sedative.  They lead him away. 
82A     T-1000 walks unperturbed among the milling cops.  No one notices him. It slips into its cruiser and drives off into the night. 
83      INT. CAR 
Terminator drives steadily into the black night. 
SARAH This T-1000... what happens when you shoot it? 
TERMINATOR Ballistic penetration shocks it, but only for a few seconds. 
Sarah thinks about that.  Then: 
SARAH Can it be destroyed? 
TERMINATOR Unknown. 
They ride along in silence for a few seconds. Sarah sees something up ahead, some lonely neon in the blackness. 
SARAH Pull in here.  We have to ditch this car. 
84      EXT. SERVICE STATION - NIGHT 
A rundown gas station with a buzzing neon sign and no one around. They pull into the drive and slowly cruise past the empty office.  A sign in the window says CLOSED SUNDAYS.  They continue around the building to the garage's back door. 
AT THE GARAGE DOOR.  Terminator breaks the lock on the roll-up door and raises it.  Sarah pulls the security car in out of sight. Terminator rolls the door down behind them. 
89A     WIDER.  John walks around Terminator and looks at his face. Eyes open, he is completely inert.  Dead. 
John lifts his huge hand.  The dead servos whine sullenly as he forces them.  It's like rigor mortis.  He releases the hand and it stays in the lifted position.  Sarah examines the CPU chip. 
JOHN Can you see the pin switch? 
She ignores him.  See looks at Terminator. The back at the chip. Then she sets it on the work table and picks up a small sledge hammer. John realizes what she is about to do.  Dives at her as the sledge is whistling down. 
JOHN No!!!! 
He slaps his hand down over the chip. Sarah barely stops the sledge before smashing his fingers. 
SARAH Out of the way, John! 
JOHN No!  Don't kill him! 
SARAH It, John.  Not him.  It. 
JOHN Alright, it!  We need it! 
John keeps his hand right where it is. 
SARAH We're better off by ourselves. 
JOHN But it's the only proof we have to the future... about the war and all that. 
SARAH I don't trust it!  These things are hard to kill, John, believe me, I know.  We may never have this opportunity again. 
JOHN Look, Mom, if I'm supposed to ever be this great leader, you should start listening to my leadership ideas once in a while.  'Cause if you won't, nobody else will. 
Smart kid.  He's got her.  She nods, reluctantly.  He palms the chip and studies it minutely. 
89B     John takes a pin and moves the almost invisible switch to the other position. It is now in "write" mode.  Then he grimaces as he inserts the wafer back into the slot in Terminator's skull. 
89C     TERMINATOR VISION flares back to life in a burst of static.  The image forms.  Sarah and John stands behind him in the mirror. 
TERMINATOR Was there a problem? 
John glances sheepishly at Sarah,  Then smiles at Terminator. 
JOHN No problem.  None whatsoever. 
CUT TO: 
90      JOHN SLEEPING, lying on a pile of rags next to a stack of tires. The lights are off.  Sarah sits nearby, cross-legged, he back against the wall. The .45 is cradles in her lap.  She looks weary, but she won't allow herself to sleep with Terminator present. 
By the office windows, in a slash of moonlight, is Terminator.  He stands silent and still, watching the night.  Only his eyes move, tracking with the occasional car passing on the road.  He figure silhouetted and still. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
91      SAME IMAGE.  Now DAYLIGHT streams in the dusty windows. Terminator has not moved.  Faithful machine sentinel.  He turns at a sound.  John stirs, waking up.  He squints into the sunlight.  Sarah is still awake.  She gets up, wincing at the pain in her arm. 
CUT TO: 
92      EXT. GAS STATION - DAY (LATER) 
John and Terminator walks to an old Chevy pickup parked behind the garage.  The day is clear but windy.  Dust devils chase themselves behind the place.  The pickup is locked but Terminator breaks the side window with his fist and opens the door.  He and John climb in. 
92A     IN THE PICKUP.  Terminator has this trick (which you could do too if you had servo-driven steel fingers) where he smashes the cowl around a steering column with one blow from the palm of his hand.  When it shatters he strips it away with a single move, and then turns the stub of the lock-mechanism with his fingertips.  This starts the vehicle. It takes about three seconds. 
In fact, he does it so quickly, the truck is running by the time John flips down the sun visor.  A set of keys drops out and John catches them.  Dangles them in front of Terminator's eyes. 
JOHN Are we learning yet? 
92B     Sarah comes out.  She's found a mechanic's coverall inside, used but fairly clean.  It doesn't fit her too well, but it's better than the stuff from the hospital.  She's still barefoot. The sun, which she hasn't seen in months, hurts her eyes, Terminator and John pull up in the pickup.  She gets in. 
92C                             TERMINATOR We need to get as far from the city as possible. 
SARAH Just head south. 
CUT TO: 
93      INT./EXT. PICKUP TRUCK/HIGHWAY - DAY 
THE OPEN ROAD.  The pickup roars through light traffic down a long stretch of highway.  They set three abreast on the bench seat, John in between, like some improbable family on a car trip. Sarah leans over to get a look at the speedometer. 
SARAH Keep it under sixty-five.  We can't afford to be pulled over. 
SECOND KID Am not! 
FIRST KID Are so! 
John and Terminator watch them rolling on the ground in a fight to the death.  Sarah rounds the front of the truck, and sees the kids.  John sighs, solemn.  He looks up at the cyborg. 
JOHN We're not gonna make it, are we?  People, I mean. 
TERMINATOR It is in your nature to destroy yourselves. 
John nods, depressed. 
JOHN Yeah.  Drag, huh? 
SARAH I need to know how Skynet get built.  Who's responsible? 
TERMINATOR The man most directly responsible is Miles Bennet Dyson, Director of Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation. 
SARAH Why him? 
TERMINATOR In a few months he creates a revolutionary type of mircoprocessor. 
SARAH Then what? 
98B     Terminator closes the hood and gets into the truck as he speaks. 
TERMINATOR In three years Cyberdyne will become the largest supplier of military computer systems.  All stealth bombers are upgraded with Cyberdyne computers, becoming fully unmanned,  Afterward, the fly with a perfect operational record. 
SARAH (getting behind John) Uh huh, great.  Then those fat fucks in Washington figure, what the hell, let a computer run the whole show, right? 
TERMINATOR Basically. (starting the engine, backing out) The Skynet funding bill is passed.  The system goes on-line August 4th, 1997.  Human decisions are removed from strategic defense.  Skynet begins to learn, at a geometric rate.  It becomes self-aware at 2:14 a.m. eastern time, August 29. In a panic, they try to pull the plug. 
SARAH And Skynet fights back. 
They accelerate back onto the highway. 
TERMINATOR Yes.  It launches its ICBMs against their targets in Russia. 
SARAH Why attack Russia? 
TERMINATOR Because Skynet knows the Russian counter-strike will remove its enemies here. 
SARAH Jesus. (beat, then) How much do you know about Dyson? 
TERMINATOR I have detailed files. 
SARAH I want to know everything.  What he looks like. Where he lives.  Everything. 
99      INT. DYSON HOUSE - DAY 
Miles Dyson sits at the huge desk in his study.  He is deep in thought, tapping away at the keyboard of his home computer terminal. Next to desk are racks of sophisticated gear.  On a Sunday morning, when most men are relaxing, spending time with their families, Dyson is hard at work. 
IN A PROFILE CLOSEUP we see him in deep concentration, his mind prowling the labyrinth of his new microprocessor. 
A WOMAN'S FACE ENTERS FRAME soundlessly behind him.  He doesn't hear her.  His wife, TARISSA, extends her tongue and traces it down the back of his neck.  He smiles and turns to kiss her good morning. She's still in her bathrobe, holding coffee.  He's been up for hours. He turns and goes back to work, forgetting instantly that she is standing there. 
She watches him work, the arcane symbols moving across the screen. We see her frustration, her inability to truly enter the magic box of his world. 
TARISSA You going to work all day? 
DYSON I'm sorry, baby.  This thing is just kicking my ass.  I thought we had it with this one... 
He points to a metal box on his desk, about two feet long.  As assembly of small cubes.  It looks like a dinosaur version of Terminator's CPU. 
DYSON ... but the output went to shit after three seconds.  I'm thinking now it's the way I'm matrixing the command hierarchies... 
TARISSA You need a break.  You'll see it clear when you come back. 
DYSON I can't 
TARISSA Miles, it's Sunday.  You promised to take the kids to Raging Waters today. 
DYSON Oh.  I can't, honey.  I'm on a roll here. 
He takes her hands.  We see a childlike excitement in his face.  He wants so badly to share the almost orgasmic thrill of discovery, the satisfaction of creation. 
DYSON Baby, this thing is going to blow 'em all away. It's a neural-net process -- 
A114    NOT FAR AWAY, John and Terminator are packing the Bronco for the trip. 
A115    ON SARAH, AT THE TABLE as she looks up from her carving, thinking. She watches Salceda's kids playing nearby... wrestling with a mutty dog and loving it.  Sarah watches Yolanda walking her toddler by her hands.  Backlit, stylized.  She looks over at John.  Loading guns and supplies. 
A116    ANGLE ON kids playing. 
A117    SARAH'S HEAD droops.  She closes her eyes. 
A118    TIGHT ON small children playing.  Different ones. Wider now, to reveal a playground in a park.  Very idyllic.  A dream playground, crowded with laughing children playing on swings, slides, and a jungle gym.  It could be the playground we saw melted and frozen in the post-nuclear desolation of 2029.  But here the grass is vibrant green and the sun is shining. 
118A    Sarah, short-haired, looking drab and paramilitary, stands outside the playground.  An outsider.  Her fingers are hooked in a chain-link fence and she is staring through the fence at the young mothers playing with their kids.  A grim-faced harbinger. 
118B    Some girls play skip-rope.  Their sing-song weaves through the random burbling laughter of the kids.  One of the young mothers walks her two-year-old son by the hands.  She is wearing a pink waitress uniform.  She turns to us, laughing. It is Sarah.  Beautiful.  Radiant.  Sarah from another life, uncontaminated by the dark future.  She glances at the strange woman beyond the fence. 
118C    Grim-faced Sarah presses against the fence.  She starts shouting at them in SLOW MOTION.  No sound comes from her mouth.  She grabs the fence in frustration, shaking it.  Screaming soundlessly. Waitress Sarah's smile falls.  Then returns as her little boy throws some sand at her.  She laughs, turns away, as if the woman at the fence were a shadow, a trick of light. 
118D-118F  OMITTED 
118G    THE SKY EXPLODES.  The children ignite like match heads.  Sarah is burning, screaming silently, everything silent and overexposed. 
118H    THE BLAST WAVE HITS... devouring the cowering mothers and children. Sarah's scream merges with the howl of the wind as the shockwave rips into her, blasting her apart and she... 
119     Wakes up. All is quiet and normal.  The children are still playing nearby.  Less than fifteen minutes have gone by. 
Bathed in sweat, Sarah sits hunched over the table. Every muscle is shaking.  She is gasping. Sarah struggles to breathe, running her hand through her hair which is soaked with sweat,  She can escape from the hospital, but she can't escape from the madness which haunts her. 
She looks down at the words she has carved on the table, amid the scrawled hearts and bird-droppings.  They are:  "NO FATE." Something changes in her eyes.  She slams her knife down in the table top, embedding it deeply in the words.  Then gets up suddenly and we -- 
CUT TO: 
A120    LONG LENS on Sarah walking toward us, striding across the compound with grim purpose.  She carries a small nylon pack and a CAR-15 assault rifle.  Her face is an impassive mask.  She has become a terminator. 
A120A   JOHN LOOKS UP from his work in time to see Sarah throw the rifle behind the seat of their stolen pickup, jump in and start it.  She slams it in gear.  Salceda walks up to John. 
SALCEDA She said you go south with him... (he points at Terminator) ... tonight, like you planned.  She will meet you tomorrow in... 
But John is moving, running after her. 
JOHN Mommm!! Wait!! 
A120B   MOVING WITH SARAH as she leaves the compound.  We see John running after her... yelling.  Can't hear his words.  She looks in the rear- view mirror but doesn't slow down. 
CUT TO: 
A121    EXT. COMPOUND - DUSK/MINUTES LATER 
John and Terminator ponders the message carved into the top of the picnic table.  Sarah's knife is still embedded there. 
JOHN "No fate."  No fate but what we make.  My father told her this... I mean I made him memorize it, up in the future, as a message to her -- Never mind.  Okay, the whole thing goes "The future is not set.  There is no fate but what we make for ourselves." 
TERMINATOR She intends to change the future somehow. 
JOHN I guess, yeah -- (snaps his fingers as it hit him) Oh shit!! 
TERMINATOR Dyson. 
JOHN Yeah, gotta be!  Miles Dyson!  She's gonna blow him away! 
John motions to Terminator and breaks into a run. 
JOHN Come on.  Let's go.  LET'S GO!! 
CUT TO: 
A122    INT./EXT. SARAH'S JEEP - DUSK 
Sarah speeds through the darkening desert.  Expressionless.  In her dark glasses, she looks as pitiless as an insect. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
A123    EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
TRACKING WITH THE BRONCO, Terminator and John heading toward L.A. 
TERMINATOR This is tactically dangerous. 
JOHN Drive faster. 
135     EXT. DYSON HOUSE/STREET 
Terminator and John leap from the jeep, sprinting toward the house. The shots sound muffles from outside. 
JOHN Shit, we're too late! 
136     INT. HOUSE 
Advancing with Sarah we enter the living area.  Tarissa has Blythe and she's screaming at Danny, who has run back to his collapsed father. 
TARISSA Danny!  DANNY! 
DANNY Daaaaddddeeee! 
Danny is pulling at Dyson, crying and screaming, as his father tries to stagger forward.  Tarissa drops Blythe and runs back for Dyson, grabbing him.  Sarah looms behind them with the pistol aimed. 
SARAH Don't fucking move!  Don't FUCKING MOVE!! (she swings the gun on Tarissa) Get on the floor, bitch!  Now!!  Fucking down! NOW!! 
Sarah is crazy-eyed now, shaking with the intensity of the moment. The kill has gone bad, with screaming kids and the wife involved... things she never figured on.  Tarissa drops to the knees, terrified as she looks into the muzzle of the gun.  Blythe runs to Dyson and hugs him, wailing. 
BLYTHE Don't hurt my father! 
SARAH (screaming) Shut up, kid!  Get out of the way!! 
Dyson looks up, through his pain and incomprehension.  Why is this nightmare happening?  The black gun muzzle is a foot from his face. 
DYSON (gasping) Please... let... the kids... go... 
SARAH Shut up!  SHUT UP!!  Motherfucker!  It's all your fault!  IT'S YOUR FAULT!! 
We see her psyching herself to pull the trigger... needing now to hate this man she doesn't know.  It's a lot harder face-to-face.  She is bathed in sweat, and it runs into her eyes.  Blinking, she wipes it fast with one hand, then gets it back on the gun.  The .45 is trembling. 
TIGHT ON SARAH as we see the forces at war behind her eyes. She looks into the faces of Dyson, Tarissa, Blythe, Danny. Sarah takes a sharp breath and all the muscles in her arms contract as she tenses to fire. But her finger won't do it. She lowers the gun very slowly.  It drops to her side in one hand. 
All the breath and energy seems to go out of her. She weakly raises her other hand in a strange gesture, like "Stay where you are, don't move".  As if, should they move, the fragile balance might tip back the other way. She backs away from them slowly, panting.  It's as if she's backing away in terror from what she almost did.  She reaches a wall and slumps against it.  Slides down to her knees.  The gun falls limply from her fingers. She rests her cheek against the wall. 
136A    The front door is kicked in. Terminator steps inside.  John grabs his sleeve and pushes past him. He scopes out the situation in two seconds... Sarah, the gun, the sobbing family.  John moves to Sarah while Terminator checks Dyson. 
John kneels in front of his mother.  She raises her head to look at him.  He sees the tears spilling down her cheeks, 
JOHN Mom?  You okay? 
SARAH I couldn't... oh, God. (she seems to she him for the first time) You... came here... to stop me? 
JOHN Uh huh. 
She reaches out and takes his shoulder suddenly, surprising him... drawing him to her.  She hugs him and a great sob wells up deep inside her, from a spring she had thought long dry.  She hugs him fiercely as the sobs wrack her. 
John clutches her shoulders.  It is all he ever wanted. 
JOHN It's okay.  It'll by okay.  We'll figure it out. 
SARAH I love you, John.  I always have. 
JOHN I know, Mom.  I know. 
TARISSA looks around at the bizarre tableau.  Terminator has wordlessly ripped open Dyson's shirt and examined the wound. 
TERMINATOR Clean penetration.  No shattered bone. Compression should control the loss of blood. 
He takes Tarissa's hands and presses them firmly over the entrance and exit wounds. 
TERMINATOR Do you have bandages? 
DYSON In the bathroom.  Danny, can you get them for us? 
Danny nods and runs down the hall. John disengages from Sarah.  She wipes her tears, the instinct to toughen up taking over again.  But the healing moment has had its effect, nevertheless. 
John walks toward Dyson and Terminator. 
DYSON Who are you people? 
John draws the Biker's knife from Terminator's boot.  Hands it to him. 
JOHN Show him. 
Terminator takes off his jacket to reveal bare arms. John takes Blythe by the hands and leads her down the hall, away from what is about to happen. 
DYSON I think so, yeah.  When? 
Dyson looks at her, Terminator, then John.  Sees his answer. 
DYSON Now? (he takes a breath) Yeah, right. 
He turns to his wife.  Her face is streaked with tears, but her eyes are strong and clear.  Tarissa puts her hands on his arm.  She is stunned by what she's heard, but dealing with it.  She believe them. 
TARISSA Miles, I'm scared.  Okay.  But the only thing that scares me more than you going... is you not going. 
He nods.  She's right. 
SARAH (to Terminator) Is it safe for them here? 
TERMINATOR (to Tarissa) Take your kids.  Go to a hotel.  Right now. Don't pack. (to the others) Let's go. 
CUT TO: 
138B    EXT, HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
Pavement rushing at us, lit by headlights.  Beyond, darkness. 
SARAH (V.O.) The future, always so clear to me, has become like a black highway at night.  We were in uncharted territory now... making up history as we went along. 
TILT UP to reveal a rectangle of light ahead.  The Cyberdyne Building... 
139     INT. CYBERDYNE SYSTEMS BUILDING/LOBBY - NIGHT 
TIGHT ON A CARD-KEY SCANNER as Dyson's hand zips his security card through a slot in one motion.  There is the sound of a servo-lock, and -- 
139A    DYSON enter the spacious lobby, followed by Sarah, John, and Terminator last of all.  In a frontal angle, the others block Terminator from view. 
THE GUARD at the front desk, GIBBONS, looks up as Dyson moves toward him.  Dyson is pale and sweaty, but smiles warmly at the guard, speaking well before he reaches the desk. 
DYSON Evening, Paul.  These are friends of mine from out of town, I just thought I'd take them up and show them around. 
GIBBONS I'm sorry, Mr. Dyson.  You know the rules about visitors in the lab.  I need written authoriz -- 
K-CHAK!  Gibbons is staring down the barrels of Sarah's .45 and Terminator's MAC-10. 
TERMINATOR I insist. 
The guard is too stunned to move.  We see that Terminator is wearing his jacket and one black glove. Gibbon's eyes go to the silent alarm button on the console. 
SARAH Don't even think about it. 
Gibbons nods.  He stays frozen.  Terminator circles quickly and gets the guard out of the chair.  John pulls a roll of duct-tape from his knapsack and tears off a piece. 
140     INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR 
ELEVATOR DOORS OPEN and Terminator leads the group warily into the corridor.  They have a cart piled high with gear in nylon bags. Dyson motions down the corridor to the right.  As they walk, he continues to fill them in -- 
DYSON The vault needs two keys to open.  Mine... (holds up key) ... and one from the security station.  It's in a locker but my card should access it.  Here we go. 
They stand in front of a wide security door.  A sign above reads SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION:  AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY.  Dyson zips his key-card through the scanner and the door unlatches. 
141     OMITTED 
142     INT. FIRST FLOOR CORRIDOR/LOBBY 
A ROVING GUARD, MOSHIER, strolls down the long corridor from the first-floor office block.  A punch clock swings at his hip, and he's just completed his circuit of the building.  He passes the back of elevators and rounds the corner to the front desk, calling out -- 
MOSHIER Honey, I'm home... 
He sees the desk is deserted and frowns.  Figures Gibbons must be in the can, so checks that first before getting alarmed. TRACKING WITH HIM to the restroom around the corner, 
MOSHIER Hey, man, you shouldn't leave the -- 
142A    OVER HIS SHOULDER we see past the door as he pushes it open, revealing Gibbons handcuffed to the urinal.  Moshier spins on a dime and sprints to the desk where he slams down on the silent alarm button. 
153     INT. SECURITY STATION 
The security station is a pass-through area with a counter, behind which are desks and a bank of monitors, showing boring movies about empty corridors.  Dyson crosses quickly to a locker behind the monitor area.  He swished his card repeatedly through the scanner on the locker.  Nothing happens.  The light on the locker is blinking red.  Sarah notices Dyson's alarmed expression. 
DYSON What?  WHAT IS IT? 
Dyson whips around, staring at a light flashing on the console behind him. 
DYSON I've worked for years on this thing. 
Swinging awkwardly but with great force he smashes the axe down onto the processor prototype, exploding it into fragments.  His shoulder is agony, but he looks satisfied. 
149     INT. SECOND FLOOR SECURITY STATION 
John taps away at his little lap-top, which is running code combinations into the card-key lock.  Suddenly, the green light on the lock goes on and it unlocks with a clunk. 
JOHN Easy money. 
He whips it open, revealing a rack of keys.  But the VAULT-KEY is distinctive, a long steel rectangle on a neck-chain.  John grabs it and runs toward the lab. 
150     INT. LAB 
Sarah and Terminator are working like a crack team, rigging the explosives.  She is taping the claymores to the gas cans with duct tape to create powerful incendiary bombs.  Terminator is attaching claymores and blocks of C-4 plastic explosive to the large MAINFRAME COMPUTER cabinets nearby.  All the claymores are wired back to one detonator with has a RADIO-CONTROL RELAY switch. 
DYSON How do you set them off? 
Terminator shows him a REMOTE DETONATOR, a small transmitter with a red plunger. 
TERMINATOR Radio remote. 
He makes a plunger-pushing motion with his thumb and an accompanying "click" sound.  Dyson nods. Just then John comes running in, holding up the key. 
JOHN I got it.  Piece of cake. 
SARAH (to Dyson and Terminator) Go!  I'll finish here. 
They run out as the SOUND OF SIRENS grow louder outside. 
TERMINATOR I'll deal with the police. 
JOHN Remember what I said, you can't... 
TERMINATOR Trust me. 
151     EXT. CYBERDYNE BUILDING 
The security duo of Moshier and Gibbons cowers behind cars in the parking lot in front of the building.  They turns as L.A.P.D. BLACK- AND-WHITES pour into the lot, turn the area into a disco of whirling blue and red lights. 
152     OMITTED 
153     EXT. CYBERDYNE BUILDING 
The cops are jumping from their cars and ducking behind them. Emphasis on small arms here.  Behind them an ugly BLACK SWAT VAN screeches into the lot. 
153A    We hear the THUMP OF ROTORS as a POLICE CHOPPER arrives and swings in close to the building.  It rakes its XENON SPOTLIGHT through the second floor offices. 
154     INT./EXT. SECOND FLOOR OFFICE 
Terminator crosses the office toward the floor-to-ceiling windows. He is outlines starkly by the spotlight as it rakes through the dark offices.  Without breaking stride he kicks an executive desk toward the window. 154A    Glass explodes outward and the desk topples, falling to the sidewalk below. 
154B    Terminator, standing at the edge, FIRES A LONG BURST with strafes the police cars lines up below.  Cops duck as glass flies.  Terminator, with his superb aim, hits no one.  But noticed is served. 
154C    The cops (surprise) FIRE BACK.  Terminator turns and is walking calmly from the window as glass, office furniture, drapes etc. are riddled by return fire.  A few rounds hit his back, but he doesn't notice.  He reloads as he walks. 
155     INT. VAULT ANTECHAMBER 
TIGHT ON A KEY inserted into one of the vault locks. 
WIDER as John and Dyson stand poised, hands on keys. 
JOHN And let's see what's behind door number one. 
Dyson nods and they turns the keys together.  The vault grumbles to itself, withdrawing it locking bolts with a final KLONK! Together Dyson and John swing the door open. 
156     EXT./INT. LOBBY 
The varsity takes the field as the SWAT TROOPERS sprint forward by squads.  They flank the lobby and work their way inside, deploying rapidly.  They move and freeze, behind cover, quivering with adrenaline.  They have all that great SWAT equipment:  body armor, gas-masks, M-16s, tear-gas launchers, ropes.  The works.  They make a lot of hand signals and keep their mouths shut.  They're well- trained and deadly. 
157     OUTSIDE we see cops firing TEAR GAS grenades through the broken windows into second-floor offices. 
158     INT. VAULT 
John and Dyson are isolated from the world in this silent steel womb. Dyson opens the cabinet containing the terminator relics.  It's John turn to stare with uneasy deja-vu as he sees the terminator hand and CPU. 
Then in one vicious move he sweeps his arm behind the inert-gas flasks and hurls them to the floor.  They SHATTER.  John snatches the CPU and the metal hand out of the broken glass. 
Dyson is lying amid the ruins of his dreams.  Sprawled on the floor, he has his back propped up against the desk.  He is bathed in his own blood, which runs out in long fingers across the tiles.  His breathing is shallow and raspy.  He still holds the book, trembling, above the switch. 
In his lap is the picture from his desk.  He has pulled it from the debris next to him.  A tear trickles from his eye.  His wife and children smile up at him through broken glass. 
168     OMITTED 
169     CUT TO THE PUPIL OF HIS EYE, at the moment of death, the instant the light fade from his eyes and he is gone -- His arm drops and the book his the switch -- 
170     EXT. BUILDING 
As the face of the building EXPLODES in an eruption of glass and fire. Remains of the second-floor windows shower the parking lot and a huge fireball rolls out, leaping into the sky. The cops look up, stunned.  The helicopter banks away from the heat. Burning debris falls among the cop cars and a number of officers break ranks, pulling back. 
171     ONLY ONE OF THEM seems to be moving with purpose.  A BIKE COP who has just arrived drives through the disorganized crowd, directly toward the building. 
171A    T-1000 guns the bike up a ramp to a pedestrian bridge which crosses from a parking structure to the Cyberdyne building.  It enters on the second floor, which is now a burning maze. 
172     INT. SECOND FLOOR/OFFICE/CORRIDOR 
T-1000 drives into the smoky wreckage.  It draws a Hoechler and Koch MPK machine pistol and cruises slowly into the firelit offices, scanning. 
172A    IN THE CORRIDOR the bike skirts flaming wreckage as it idles forward. T-1000 scans the leaping shadows for its prey. 
173     INT. GROUND FLOOR/ELEVATOR/LOBBY 
The elevator doors part and Terminator eases a look out into the corridor.  The walls on either side of him ERUPT WITH BULLET HITS. The SWATs have the lobby end of the corridor blocked off.  They're totally trapped, cut off and screwed. 
JOHN (to Sarah) Don't forget.  It's always darkness right before... you're totally fucked. 
173A    The SWATs fire a tear-gas grenade toward the elevators.  It spews the vicious CS gas out in a swirling cloud which envelops Sarah and John, who are pressed against the back wall of the elevator. 
TERMINATOR Keep your eyes closed.  Don't move. (they nod, eyes squeezed shut) I'll be back. 
He slings the grenade launcher over his shoulder and walks out into the corridor. 
173B    BLAM.  A tear-gas grenade ricochets from wall to wall as it flies down the corridor.  It skids to rest in front of Terminator, throwing out a white cloud which quickly fills the corridor. 173C    In the elevator, Sarah and John are choking, handing the breathing mask back and forth desperately.  They're scarred.  This looks like it. 173D    ANGLE ON THE SWAT TEAM, gripping their weapons at the mouth of the corridor.  They watch the boiling cloud, waiting. 
173E    THEIR POV -- on the wall of boiling smoke.  A FIGURE APPEARS.  Walking Totally unaffected.  Terminator emerges from the smoke.  Not even misty-eyed.  Not what they expected. 
LEADER (through megaphone) Stop where you are.  Lie down on the floor, face down.  Down on floor, now! 
He continues to stride toward them. The SWATs tense up.  They've never seen anything like this.  They're not sure what to do.  Closer and closer. 
LEADER Drop him. 
They OPEN FIRE.  The corridor is filled with CRACKING THUNDER.  The rounds tear into Terminator's chest.  Stomach.  Face.  Thighs.  His leather jacket leaps and jerks as the rounds hit him.  The SWATs think the guy's wearing body armor or something.  They keep firing. The rounds tear into him, staggering him slightly, but he keeps moving. 
LEADER You're not hitting him! 
SWAT #1 (getting scared) Yes I am! 
Terminator draws his .45 smoothly.  Unhurried.  He shoots the nearest man in the left thigh.  As he screams and drops, Terminator shoots him in the right thigh.  Terminator bends down and picks up the shrieking man's weapon... the TEAR-GAS LAUNCHER. 
It is one of those new rotary jobs that hold 12 rounds in a big drum. Terminator shoots the next SWAT in the chest with the tear-gas launcher.  The gas canister hits the guy's body armor and doesn't penetrate.  But it's like getting slugged in the stomach with a full- swing from a baseball bat.  The SWAT fold double and hits the tiles, gasping. 
Terminator is an image from Hell, a tall figure in shredded black leather, streaked with blood.  One eye is a bloody socket, the metal eye-servo glistening.  The flesh of one cheek hangs down in tatters, revealing the chrome cheekbone beneath.  The whole front of his jacket is blown open, revealing his metal armor chest. 
The remaining SWATs start to fall back.  One turns to run and -- KPOW!  A gas canister nail him in the back, sending him sprawling. 
173F    Terminator fires three gas canisters into the lobby.  It fills rapidly with the white gas, cutting the visibility to a few feet.  It is total pandemonium.  SWAT LEADER crouches in the fog, white- knuckling the rifle.  Terminator looms suddenly out of the mist right in front of him.  POOM!  Terminator drills him in the leg with the .45.  As the guy screams and drops rifle to clutch his leg, Terminator rips his gas mask off.  The SWAT leader drops writhing to the floor, choking and gagging, clutching his bleeding thigh. 
Terminator walks up to two SWATs at the front doors.  POW-POW.  Leg and leg.  He snatches their masks as they fall.  The gunfire has stopped.  Nobody an see anything.  Screams and whimpers echo in the smoke. 
174     EXT. BUILDING 
Smoke boils out of the front door as a figure emerges.  Firing the tear-gas launcher with one hand, Terminator launches all remaining rounds among the cop vehicles.  Unprotected officers run, choking and half-blind, slamming into cars and tripping over each other.  It is a total rout. 
175     AT THE SWAT VAN on of the SWATs is rapidly handing out the remaining masks to unprotected cops.  A FIGURE appears out of the smoke beside him.  He looks up.  His mask is ripped off and he is handed the empty launcher.  Instinctively he catches it.  Terminator grabs his flak vest with one hand and sails him out into the mist. 
175A    INT. SWAT VAN 
Terminator strides the length of the van and climbs into the driver's seat.  No keys in the ignition.  He flips down the sun visor.  The keys fall into his hand.  He starts the van and slams it into gear. 
176     INT./EXT. LOBBY 
The tear gas has cleared to a thin haze.  The uninjured SWATs are tending their wounded.  They look up at the sound of shouts and a roaring engine. 
176A    THE SWAT VAN CRASHES INTO THE LOBBY in an explosion of glass and debris.  Cops scatter as the van screeches across the lobby in a smoking one-eighty, sliding to a stop across the corridor which leads to the bank of elevators.  Terminator backs up until -- crunch -- he seals the corridor with the back of the van. 
With the tanker right behind them, Terminator cuts the wheel, swerving the pickup back and forth across the lanes. The big rig stays right on them, it tanker whiplashing violently. 
JOHN Faster!  He's right on us! 
Terminator doesn't reply.  He rapidly unslings the blooper, still around his neck, and reaches for a grenade. 
191     LOW ANGLE ON THE TRACTOR-TRAILER as it roars right up to the lens, filling frame with chrome and lights. 
191A    K-WHAM!!  It rams the backs of the pickup, sending it skidding. 
191B    Then the T-1000 pulls the tractor trailer up alongside the pickup and crabs over, sandwiching it against the center divider.  The spinning chrome hubs tear into the passenger side door and the guard rail screeches along the other side. 
The pickup bucks and shakes insanely.  It ricochets violently between the big-rig and the divider Horrible SCREECH of tortured steel. Sparks pour in sheets of fire from both sides. The windshield shatters as the door-posts buckle in. Metal and glass shower in through the side windows. The frame twists and buckles.  John feels like the fillings are being shaken right out of his teeth. The wooden camper disintegrates, falling away as kindling behind them. 
191C    INT. TANKER CAB 
T-1000 holds the wheel hard over, mercilessly grinding the pickup. The whole rig jerks and shakes with the violence of the sustained hammering. 
191D    INT./EXT. PICKUP 
Terminator slides toward the passenger side.  Keeping his foot on the gas he lifts John over him and puts him in the driver's seat. 
TERMINATOR Drive for a minute. 
JOHN Where you going?! 
Terminator slams the shattered windshield with the palm of his hand. Held together by the plastic laminate, the windshield flops out of its frame.  It flies over the top of the truck. 
191E    Terminator pushes his upper body out over the dashboard and stands up. He turns and aims the M-79 one-handed. 191F    POOM!  The grenade misses the T-1000 by less than a foot.  It EXPLODES against the front bulkhead of the tanker, almost at the top.  Liquid nitrogen pours from the opening, swept back by the 60-mph windstream. 
191G    The big-rig swerves as T-1000 regains control.  The tanker swings like a pendulum behind the cab. 
191H    The pickup accelerates, getting back out in front by a few yards. Behind it the big-rig is trailing a swirling comet-tail of nitrogen vapor.  It is gaining again. 
Terminator, still standing, opens the breech and starts to reload. 191I    John cuts across the highway and takes an OFF RAMP. 
191J    T-1000 swerves the smoking behemoth across the lanes and down the ramp after him, still accelerating.  It is twenty feet behind them and closing when Terminator closes the breech and FIRES. 
191K    The grenade hits the front grill and EXPLODES. The radiator is destroyed, along with half the hood.  Steam blasts out, obscuring the whole front of the truck. 
191L    The semi rams the back of the pickup again.  Spewing smoke and vapor like some demon locomotive, the tractor-trailer pounds into the back of the pickup.  Driving it right through the intersection at the bottom of the ramp, and straight toward -- 
EXT. STEEL MILL 
The chase has led them to an area of heavy industry. 
192     THE GATES are blasted off their hinges as the semi rams the pickup right through them.  Terminator struggles to reload amid the chaos and impacts.  He has THREE GRENADES LEFT on the bandolier. 
John isn't even steering.  They are just being pushed.  There's nothing he can do.  They are rocketing down the broad thoroughfare which leads directly to the MAIN BUILDING of the plant. 
192A    Terminator pulls himself onto the roof of the pickup. He leaps to the bed, takes two powerful strides and -- Leaps onto the semi.  He climbs rapidly onto the hood. 192B    And FIRES POINT BLANK THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD. Right into T-1000's face. The EXPLOSION blows out all the glass and fills the cab with smoke and fire  Terminator grabs onto the air-horn as the truck starts to SHUDDER AND 192C    SCREAM.  IT IS JACK-KNIFING. Almost dream-slow the cab begins to swing sideways, until its tires are shrieking over the pavement.  The tractor is smashed back at right-angles to the tanker-trailer which begins to slide broadside. 
192D    The juggernaut bucks and shudders as the tires and smoke sideways across the pavement. It begins to topple. Terminator hold on as the side of cab becomes the top. With an unholy scream, like the unoiled hubs of Hell, the whole rig slides on its side at 60 mph toward the steel mill.  A sheet of sparks sixty feet wide trails behind it on the pavement. 
192E    John sees what's behind him, then snaps around to see the building looming right in front.  The huge rolling doors are partly open. No choice. He steers right through them into the mill, as -- 
192F    Terminator, with one second to go, leaps from the cab -- He flies through the open doors as -- The tanker hits the building and -- 
193     INT. STEEL MILL/MAIN AISLE 
Terminator slams to the floor of the mill and rolls, as -- The tanker-trailer smashed into a massive concrete support at one side of the doors.  Thunderous carnage of twisting metal.              o 193A    It splits wide open.  A river of liquid nitrogen pours out at -230. 
193B    John hits the brakes, sliding out of control.  He slows almost to a stop but hits a steel support column head-on.  He and Sarah are slammed forward, hard. 
193C    Terminator, still clutching the M-79 blooper, rolls and slides across the floor. He smashes through a railing and slams up against the base of a massive machine. 
193D    The semi cab swings about the trailer wreckage, into the building, and shudders to a stop.  Liquid nitrogen sprays over the cab, flooding out around it in a HISSING WAVEFRONT OF ULTRACOLD. Freezing vapor swirls everywhere, obscuring the wreck. 
193E    TERMINATOR lies still.  A beat.  Then he rolls weakly, rising on one elbow to survey the scene. 
193F    IN THE WRECKED PICKUP, John stirs.  He is stunned, and blood runs from his nose.  Dazed, he realizes he is in a steel mill.  There are sirens, and he can see men running... shouting.  He turns and sees what they are running from... 
193G    The wall of nitrogen vapor spreads from the demolished tanker.  It is a strange vista of fire and ice.  The huge SMELTERS pour out orange light and fire from the sides of the huge galley, while the freezing vapor rolls down the center. 
193H    TIGHT ON THE WRECK.  A billowing gray cloud.  Deep inside, the shape of the cab in visible.  A FIGURE emerges, pulling itself out.  It drops to the floor.  The hissing, boiling river of liquid nitrogen flows around its feet. 
194     The T-1000 staggers, moving slowly, painfully.  It has finally been affected by something.  Its feet are freezing to the ground as it walks... 
204B    JOHN AND SARAH have reached the back of the aisle.  It is a cul-de- sac, blocked on the end by the base of an IMMENSE SMELTER CRUCIBLE. They turn to watch the titans battle in silhouette, backlit by the molten sparks falling from the furnaces above.  The battle which will decide their fate. 
204C    Terminator grabs the T-1000 and hurls it with awesome force against the opposite wall of the narrow alley.  In less time than it would take to turn, the 204D    T-1000 morphs trough itself, front to back... face emerging from the back of its head. 204E    It comes off the wall straight at Terminator, who smashes his good fist into its face.  The pile-driver blow buries Terminator's fist almost to the elbow. 
204F    But the T-1000's head morphs in a split-second into a hand which grips Terminator's wrist, and the head "emerges" somewhere else, the geometry shifting faster than we can follow. 204G    The T-1000 slams Terminator into a large machine, jamming his arm into the moving works.  A massive sliding bar SCISSORS HIS ARM, smashing it into junk at the elbow, pinning him in the machine. 
Terminator strains against the machine pinning him.  We hear his servos whining with overload.  The T-1000 turns and lopes toward Sarah and John. 
Sarah screams and hurls John into a gap between the machines.  He falls into a maze of pipes and girders. 
205     INT. MAZE OF MACHINES 
JOHN turns to see her in the entrance of the narrow gap.  She could follow him but she doesn't.  SUDDENLY a dark mass moves toward him. John gasps as a huge steel counterweight, driven by a chain 6 inches thick, slides toward him.  He rolls out of the way.  When he looks back, he cannot see the opening. 
JOHN Mom!  MOMMM!! 
206     INT. AISLE BETWEEN FURNACES 
TERMINATOR strains to reach a 6-foot steel bar lying near him.  Steel workers use them to move the red-hot ingots around.  He gets hold of the end and uses it as a lever.  With titanic effort he spreads the massive components which are holding him, and withdraws him arm, which is severed at the elbow.  Dangling junk hands from the crushed joint. 
207     SARAH has lost sight of John.  It is much of a goodbye as they will have. She turns as the T-1000 closes on her.  She is half-slumped against the sooty machines, looking barely conscious.  She struggles to load a shell into the empty weapon.  At the last instant she whips up the RIOT GUN and FIRES. 
A207    T-1000's face is blown open, but quickly reforms as it closes on her. She fumbles to get another shell into the magazine but -- A208    THUNK!  A steel needle slams through her shoulder, pinning her. The polymorphic killer cocks back its other hand.  The index finger extends as a gleaming needle, toward her eye -- 
T-1000 Call to John.  Now. 
207C    WHAM!!  SOMETHING whistles down on the T-1000 with such force that is cleaves it head and body in two down to the naval.  The 6-foot steel bar is imbedded in its body.  Terminator hurls the killer off Sarah. 
207D    The T-1000 pulls the steel shaft out of itself and attacks him with fury. Swinging again and again.  Hammering Terminator back.  Terminator falls back against the wall. 
Behind the T-1000 is an enormous I-beam, hanging from two chains.  It is used to lift ingots into the smelters, and it runs on a linear track. 207E    The T-1000 grabs the I-beam and rolls it down the track.  Straight at Terminator.  The two-ton girder smashes into his chest, crushing the armor. The T-1000 pulls the I-beam back, and then heaves it forward again. Terminator turns and takes the second blow on the shoulder.  We hear metal crush and break inside him.  He sags, turning to grip the wall... The third blow slams into his back, smashing his spine and pelvis.  We hear servos ratcheting and failing.  He drops to his knees, crucified on a wall of machinery. The fourth blow is centered between his shoulder blades.  Sound of crushing metal.  His skull is partially caved in. He slides to the floor. 
207F    ON THE T-1000, emotionless as it walks forward. 
207G    TERMINATOR is a pathetic shape on the floor.  He is trying to crawl, feebly. Dragging his malfunctioning legs behind the crushed spine.  His arm stump screeches on the tile floor as he inches himself forward.  His exposed machine eye burns red with determination. 
We see his prize.  He has the M-79, with the breech still open, cradled in the crook of his ruined arm.  He good hand, the exposed steel one, is reaching for the last grenade, which is visible under the skirt of the massive smelter base.  His metal fingers reach out for it as -- 
207H    The T-1000 raises the heavy steel bar over his head and stabs it down with unbelievable force.  It punches into Terminator's back, through a gap in the shattered armor.  The T-1000 levers it back and forth, widening the hole.  Then is raises the pointed bar again and slams it down. It punches right through.  Emerging from Terminator's chest. And into the floor.  He is pinioned.  The cyborg sags face down and stop moving.  The light goes out of his eye. 
CUT TO: 
208     INT. MAZE OF MACHINERY 
John scuttles like a rat through the gut of the smelter.  Above him, vast machines churn untended.  He hears a voice... SARAH'S Calling low and urgent to him. 
SARAH John?  John?  Can you hear me?  Where are you? 
208A    He crawls out of the shadows. Onto a landing next to one of the SMELTER CRUCIBLES.  Molten steel glows bright orange in the crucible of the furnace.  Heat shimmers the air, giving everything a hallucinatory quality. 
John sees Sarah nearby, limping toward him.  She can barely move, her leg bathed in blood.  He runs toward her. 
SARAH (gasping) Help me, honey... 
TIGHT ON SARAH, her stoic face, as she hobbles forward, reaching out to him.  Something rises behind her, OUT OF FOCUS. 
209     ANOTHER, IDENTICAL, SARAH... but this one has a shotgun. Aimed right at us. 
209A    JOHN freezes.  Which is which?  He looks down.  The first Sarah's feet are melded with the floor, sucking and fusing with the tiles as she walks.  They have the color and pattern of the tiles up to the knee. 
SARAH John, get out of the way!! 
JOHN (screaming) SHOOT!!!! 
209B    John dives aside.  The Sarah-form spins, changing into you-know-who. Sarah starts unloading the shotgun into it.  BOOM!  It staggers back. K-CHAK.  She chambers another round.  BOOM!  It staggers again. K-CHAK.  BOOM!  And again.  And again. 
209C    The T-1000 is blown back a step and Sarah advances with each shot. The craters in the T-1000's body "heal" slowly.  Its power is waning. She FIRES again.  And again.  Her eyes blazing with feral intensity. She walks it back, right to the edge of the pit of MOLTEN STEEL. 
K-CHAK... CLICK.  She's empty.  The T-1000 is right at the edge.  In a second it will recover its composure, as its crater hits close slowly. She has failed.  Now it will kill them both, Except... 
210     CLOSEUP TERMINATOR, as the chain drive brings it into view. Half human flesh, half chrome steel. His red eye gazes right at us as he -- FIRES. 
210A    The T-1000 takes the round in the belly.  The grenade EXPLODES inside its body.  A huge hole is blown clean through it, and it is ripped open and peeled back, half inside-out.  It topples into the molten steel and -- 
211     The T-1000's head and upper body reappear above the molten steel. It is screaming.  A terrifying, inhuman siren of a scream. It is changing, morphing, transforming into anything and everything it's ever been so rapidly the eye can barely follow it -- We catch a glimpse of Janelle Voight checkered with the linoleum tile colors, Lewis the Guard with knives exploding from his face, other faces, switching at a stroboscopic rate now... a face every two frames until they merge into one face -- 
The T-1000 screams and slips beneath the surface of the molten steel. We see liquid silver running in dissipating whorls over the superheated surface... until it vanishes, swirling into nothing. 
