"THE THING" 
Screenplay by 
Bill Lancaster 
Based on the story 
"WHO GOES THERE" 
by 
John W. Campbell. Jr. 
SECOND DRAFT 
March 4, 1981 
CAST 
MACREADY 35. Helicopter pilot. Likes chess. Hates the cold. The pay is good. 
GARRY 46. The station manager. Stiff. Ex-army officer. Wears a handgun. 
CHILDS 33. Six-four. Two-fifty. Black. A mechanic. Can be jolly. But don't mess. 
BLAIR 50. Sensitive. Intelligent. Unassuming. An assistant biologist. 
DR. COPPER 45. Professional. A decent man. A good doctor. 
PALMER 27. Second string chopper pilot. Crack mechanic. Long hair. Slight sixties acid damage. 
NAULS 22. The cook. Bright. Black. Irreverent. But kindhearted. Roller skates. 
NORRIS 44. Stocky. Rugged looking. A geophysicist. An incipient heart condition. 
BENNINGS 38. A meteorologist. Dutiful. An old pro. 
CLARK 24. The dog handler. Likes it here. Good at his job. 
SANCHEZ 21. The radio operator. Hates it here. Lousy at his job. 
In the winter of 1982 these men were commissioned by the United States National Science Foundation to gather data concerning the physical and natural sciences on the continent of Antarctica. 
THE MAIN COMPOUND OF U.S. OUTPOST #31 
The interior is a cramped and never ending maze of hallways, passageways and doors which connect the many rooms and compartments within the compound. Sturdy, but prefabricated materials have been used in its construction. 
There is a laboratory. An infirmary. A kitchen and mess hall. A communications room and sleeping quarters. Other cubicles are for storage and supplies. 
The most spacious area of the building, and the main center of activity, is the Rec Room. Of the many entrance ways to this room can be seen the small work chambers with their sophisticated computers and other scientific equipment. 
The below quarter houses the generator and still other compartments for storage. 
A long underground tunnel connects the main compound to the dog kennel. 
FADE IN: 
A STARRY BLACKNESS 
From out of the billions, the smallest of specks drives slowly forward. It closes; getting larger; its features becoming more identifiable: a vessel. Flip-flopping; out of control. Its stern roaring with flame. It passes; its blue fire surging into the screen. 
"THE THING" 
A thundering... 
FADE TO: 
BLIND AND FERAL WHITENESS 
...Glacial desert... gusts of snow... superimpose: 
ANTARCTICA 1982 WINTER 
A SOUND 
Loud and strident. A helicopter streaks across frame. It travels precariously close to the ground; its chassis battered and swayed by the wind. 
INT. COPTER 
Red dials beam on the faces of two men. One carries a rifle and searches the horizon with binoculars. The other pilots. Their unkempt faces, their blazing eyes notate a wildness. They bark at each other in some Scandinavian tongue. Two men arguing like mad and desperate children. 
The man with the binoculars sights something. 
EXT. HORIZON - BINOCULARS' POV - A DOG 
It turns and snarls at the craft some fifteen hundred yards to its rear. Then whirls and gallops off. A gun blast kicks up snow at its heels. 
INT. COPTER 
Another blast of rifle fire as the man takes issue with his prey. The pilot slams a fist into his gunman friend and implores for better aim. The craft swoops lower and the engine is put into full throttle. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BURNING COPTER 
Several men spray snow on the burning wreckage. There is no hope for the pilot. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMPOUND 
CLOSE ON THE PALLID FACE OF THE SCANDINAVIAN INTRUDER 
A neat round hole is set in the middle of his forehead. 
Station manager Garry holds up something akin to an ID. 
GARRY Norwegian... Jans Bolen. 
Fuchs, a young and sensitive-looking biologist, stands closest to the large area map of Antarctica. Several men sit and stand around viewing the body that lies on two brought- together card-tables. 
FUCHS Gotta be from the Norwegian camp. 
GARRY How far's that? 
FUCHS 'Bout eighty kilos southwest. 
GARRY (surprised) That far? 
Garry directs his attention to Childs, the large black man who had been working on the snowmobile. Next to him sits Norris, the rugged-looking, fortyish, geophysicist, who was one of the men being shot at. 
GARRY You catch anything he was saying? 
CHILDS Am I starting to look Norwegian to you, Bwana? 
Garry motions inquiringly to Norris. 
NORRIS Yeah. I caught that he wanted the better part of my ass to come apart. 
INT. INFIRMARY 
Dr. Cooper, mid-forties, works on the outstretched leg of Bennings, the meteorologist. Clark, the dog handler, is mending the hip of the wounded dog off in the corner. 
Bennings lets out with an ouch. 
DR. COPPER Don't "ouch" me. Two stitches. It just grazed you. 
He helps a shaken Bennings up off the table. 
BENNINGS What in the hell were they doing...? Flying that low... shooting at a dog... at us... 
DR. COPPER Stir crazy. Cabin fever... Who knows. 
The dog yelps and whimpers as Clark tries to calm him. 
CLARK I'll be here a while. Shell's pretty deep. 
INT. RADIO ROOM 
Blair, senior biologist, fifty, balding, leans against the entrance door. 
He looks on as the young, bored-looking radio operator, Sanchez, attends to his equipment. Bursts of static. 
SANCHEZ It's no go. 
BLAIR Well, get to somebody. Anybody. We've got to report this mess. 
SANCHEZ Look, I haven't been able to reach shit in two weeks. Doubt if anybody's talked to anybody on the whole continent. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Nauls, the cook, glides along on his roller stakes down one of the many narrow hallways that connect the various compartments of the main compound. He is black, a little mischievous, about twenty-two. 
He comes to a flashy skidding stop at one of the entrances to the rec room area, where the men are gathered with the dead Norwegian. 
NAULS Maybe we at war with Norway. 
Palmer, a spacy, twenty-seven year old, novice pilot and mechanic, grins as he lights a joint. He directs a remark to station manager Garry. 
PALMER Was wondering when "El Capitan" was going to get a chance to use his pop gun. 
Garry rebukes him with a stern look and then turns to Fuchs. 
GARRY How long have they been stationed there? 
Fuchs leafing through a pile of papers. 
FUCHS Says here about eight weeks. 
Dr. Copper enters the room. Bennings limping after him slightly. 
GARRY (shaking his head) That's not enough time for guys to go bonkers. 
MACREADY Portable video unit. 
Copper makes his way over to the main work table. He shuffles through papers, glancing at the writing. 
MACREADY Anything? 
DR. COPPER All in Norwegian. 
Dr. Copper bends down and begins gathering the papers, strewn about the room. 
MACREADY What are you doing? 
DR. COPPER Could be important work. Might as well bring it back. 
MACREADY It's getting late. Hurry it. I'm going to check the last few rooms. 
He exits. Amongst the rubble, Dr. Copper finds a pocket tape recorder and several cassettes. He selects a tape and is about to pop it in when he senses something to his rear. He turns. Looks. A beat. Nothing. 
INT. HALLWAY 
MacReady shoves himself into another room. 
INT. ROOM 
Debris and wood flush down on him. The receding ceiling had been blocking the door from above. He brushes his coat and shines the light upwards. 
The ceiling is a shambles. He then shines the light deeper into the room. 
INT. NORWEGIAN LAB 
Dr. Copper is playing the small tape recorder. A casual Norwegian voice drones on as if making notes. He fast forwards. The same casual drone. 
MACREADY (O.S.) Copper, come here!! 
INT. ROOM 
Dr. Copper enters, squeezing in, through the door. The wood cracks overhead. More debris comes falling down. 
MACREADY Careful. It's about to go. 
Copper dusts himself. MacReady stands before a huge block of ice. Fifteen feet long. Six feet wide. Four feet tall. 
It has partially melted, but its thawing process has been stopped by the now freezing temperatures within the outpost. 
Its one curious feature: the middle has been thawed and scooped out. Giving it the appearance of a large bathtub. The two men study it uncomprehendingly. 
MacReady's gaze turns to a large metal cabinet at his left. He moves for a closer look. Several photographs are pasted to its door. Small snapshots of the Norwegians at work and play. 
He tries to open it. Stuck. The partially caved-in ceiling is slightly blocking the top of the door. He tries again, careful not to dislodge the wood and plaster above. Bits of dust float down. 
DR. COPPER Watch it. 
His grip is too strong. It gives suddenly, unexpectedly. The large metal door flies open. 
Large chunks splash from the ceiling. They come thumping to the floor, behind and in front of the open cabinet door. MacReady coughs and waves away the dust. He peers inside. Nothing much. Some empty shelves. Some small scientific gear. 
His flashlight then locates a large photograph taped to the inside of the cabinet door. 
It is a picture of five Norwegians, arm in arm, all smiles, toasting each other. They are on either side of the frozen block of ice, pridefully displaying it for the camera. The block looks much thicker. Its interior opaque. 
MacReady looks to the block of ice and then back to the photograph. He untapes it, pockets it and shuts the door. 
An armless corpse swings into his face from behind the closing door. Dislodged from the ceiling, the body and MacReady go crashing to the floor. 
CUT TO: 
INT. U.S. OUTPOST - RECREATION ROOM 
The loud beat of Warren Zevon's song, "The Werewolves of London," can be heard throughout the compound. The room is empty. Close on a video pong game, its ball of light lazily traveling back and forth. The dog, its tail wagging, its bandage on, walks by. 
INT. KITCHEN 
Zevon's record is blasting from Nauls' stereo. He skates from the big walk-in freezer and plunks down a large side of beef on the wood-cutting table to thaw. He skates from pot to pan keeping time with his sounds. 
He smells. Tastes. Adds a little something here, a touch there. He clearly enjoys his work. 
Station Manager Garry stops past the open door. 
GARRY Turn that crap down, Nauls. You can hear it all over the camp! 
NAULS Oui, Bwana. Can do. 
He skates over and turns it down, but not much. 
INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM 
Garry enters and sees that Sanchez has nodded off in front of his receiver. His headgear is still on. Garry walks over and turns up the volume, the static jolting Sanchez awake. 
SANCHEZ Hey, man...! 
GARRY You reach anybody yet? 
MACREADY Little ice core drilling... some seismology... glaciology... same old shit we do. 
The present footage is a shot of them all naked and probably drunk, holding a sign across their waists as they stand outdoors in super-freezing weather. 
BENNINGS How much more of this crap is there? 
DR. COPPER About nine more hours. 
BENNINGS We can't learn anything from this. 
DR. COPPER Probably right. 
MacReady turns on the light and shuts off the video machine. He then slides the portable tape deck across the table to Dr. Copper. They exchange a look. 
DR. COPPER MacReady and I were listening to some of these cassettes on the way back. (somberly) Like you gentlemen to hear it. 
A Norwegian voice drones on calmly, making verbal notes. 
Norris shrugs. 
BENNINGS What do you want from us? 
MACREADY (flat) Just listen. 
Dr. Copper fast forwards. The calm voice continues. And then a loud blast, followed by pounding. The sounds of confusion. Voices. Loud. Frenetic. Men's feet running up and down wooden floorboards. A gurgling. A hissing. 
Screams. And then a screeching. More blasts mixed with the din of wild, carnage-wrought cries. And then more screeching. A screeching unlike anything these men have ever heard. 
The men look from one another in silence as they listen. 
Dr. Copper turns it off. 
DR. COPPER Goes on like that quite awhile. (beat) What do you gentlemen make of it? 
GARRY Could be anything... Men in isolation... some beef that snowballed... got out of hand... 
NORRIS Maybe the whole camp got bent... Something they ate. What about food poisoning, Doc? 
Dr. Copper taps the tape deck pensively. 
DR. COPPER Maybe. 
He glances at MacReady, and then back to the others. 
DR. COPPER There's something else we want you to see. 
INT. INFIRMARY 
Dr. Copper and MacReady begin dumping the heavy contents of a large plastic trash bag onto the slab. 
DR. COPPER We found this. 
Displayed on the slab is what appears to be the corpse of a man. Badly charred. What is left of the trousers and shoes of the bottom torso are ripped and split, as if his legs and feet had burst from the inside. His upper body is an almost undecipherable gnarled mass of protoplasmic mush. 
The head is strangely disfigured and looks larger than normal. It is situated not on its shoulders but near the abdomen. Tendon-like appendages are wrapped around the carcass and sticking up and out in odd postures. One is wrapped around the body's left leg. 
The shirt has been ripped and lies shredded in the tar-like mess. 
The men grimace. 
DR. COPPER I know he's pretty badly burned... but could fire have done this? 
Blair, sickened but fascinated, pokes at the tendon-like things and the tarry goo. 
DR. COPPER Blair, I'd like you and Fuchs to help me with autopsies on this one and the one Garry shot this morning. 
INT. REC ROOM - LATER - CLOSE ON A TABLE HOCKEY GAME 
Foosball. Nauls and Clark are going at it hot and heavy. 
Sanchez sits off in a corner thumbing through an old issue of Photoplay. 
Bennings, Norris and Garry are engaged in a card game. Bennings is about to play a card when he feels something under the table. He looks. It is the dog. 
BENNINGS Clark, will you put this mutt with the others where he belong?! 
INT. LAB 
larger than most of the other rooms and well-equipped. 
Dr. Copper is performing an autopsy on the Norwegian intruder, killed early that morning. 
Blair sits over his microscope, while Fuchs prepares slides. The other body is draped with a sheet, waiting its turn. Dr. Copper pulls off his gloves. 
DR. COPPER Nothing wrong with this one. Physiologically, anyway. (to Blair) Find anything toxic? 
BLAIR No drugs... alcohol. Nothing. 
INT. TUNNEL 
Clark leads the dog through the long, cold tunnel toward the kennel. A new dressing has been placed on its hip. 
INT. INFIRMARY 
Fuchs is attending to the shredded bodies of three other badly wounded dogs. 
INT. REC ROOM 
Nauls pats Clark on the shoulder and grins, trying to pick up his spirits. 
NAULS It's okay now, man. It's dead. It's over. (beat) You see. 
Clark turns to him with a childlike smile. 
CLARK I know. Mr. Childs killed it. I saw. 
NAULS Right, man. Right. 
INT. SMALL WORKROOM 
Norris is going through some maps. MacReady is bent over his shoulder. Norris finds the one he's looking for. 
NORRIS Here. This is where they were spending most of their time. 
Bennings pokes his head in the room. 
BENNINGS Pretty nasty out, Mac. Thirty-five knots. 
MACREADY Screw it, I'm going up anyway. 
INT. MAIN COMPOUND - MORNING 
Station Manager Garry has joined Blair by the stuck-together bodies. Blair motions to the bandage. 
BLAIR Was that dog, the Norwegian dog? 
GARRY I just can't comprehend any of this. It was just a dog. 
CHILDS (evenly) "tweren't no dog, Bwana. 
BLAIR That tape MacReady showed us this morning... 
GARRY Couldn't make much of it myself. 
BLAIR I've asked him to try and locate the site. Okay with you? 
GARRY Sure. You think there's a connection? 
BLAIR Maybe. 
EXT. CHOPPER 
high above the Antarctic expanse. 
INT. CHOPPER 
MacReady pilots. Young Palmer and Norris are with him. 
It is clear but the winds are troublesome. The ride is a shaky one. Norris refers to their map. He points. 
NORRIS One of their sites would be directly over here. 
They aim for a large mountainous wall. As they go up and over... they see: 
FLAT, GLACIAL EXPANSE 
On the surface, an enormous blackened oval shape. 
INT. U.S. OUTPOST #31 - LAB 
All the bodies of the dogs have been brought in. Fuchs stands by as Blair studies through his microscope. 
INSERT - A MICROSCOPIC SAMPLING 
of two cells. They appear to be much different from each other. They are joined at the ends but are completing the process of breaking off from each other. 
ON BLAIR 
A disturbed look on his face. He checks his watch, as if timing the procedure. 
EXT. GLACIER - TRACKING WITH MACREADY, NORRIS AND PALMER 
as they walk along the ice. They come to a stop at the edge of a sharp drop. 
Pull back to reveal -- the massive black hole about fifteen feet beneath the ice. Charred, gnarled and mangled metal are all that is left of what was once an enormous sphere. 
MacReady's and Norris' eyes meet each other in silence. 
Palmer is in awe. 
PALMER Wow... 
MacReady finds a burst thermite canister. He and Norris climb down. 
NAULS I want my kitchen clean. Germ free! 
Nauls spins on his skates and storms off. MacReady fetches the strangely shredded underwear and rolls it up, while Childs paces. 
CHILDS So, MacReady, come on now. These Norwegian dudes come by... find him and dig him up... 
MacReady tosses the ball of cloth across the room into a trash bin. 
MACREADY Yeah, they dig him up and cart him back. He gets thawed out, wakes up and scares the shit out of them. And they get into one hell of a brawl... 
CHILDS Now how's this motherfucker wake up after thousands of years in the ice, huh? 
MACREADY (annoyed) I don't know how. Because he's different than we are. Because he's a space guy. What do you want from me, anyway. Go ask Blair. 
CHILDS You buy any of this, Blair? 
A beat as Blair stares straight ahead, transfixed. He speaks softly, to no one particular. 
BLAIR It was here... got to that dog... It was here in this camp... 
The men take in his grave countenance. 
GARRY So...? So what? It's over with. 
Blair turns to them. A pause. The men search his face. 
BENNINGS (edgy) Well, isn't it? 
INT. LAB - CLOSE ON A SHEET 
as Blair rips it off exposing the tangled mess of interlocking dogs. 
Pull back. All the men have gathered. Some of the men settle into chairs, others stand. 
BLAIR Whatever that Norwegian dog was... It... It was capable of changing its form... (indicates their dog) ...when it attacked our dog... it somehow was able to digest... or... absorb it... and in the process shaped its own cells to imitate our dog's cells exactly... (holds up gooey dog leg) ...This for instance isn't dog at all -- it's imitation... We got to it before it had time to finish or... 
NAULS Finish what? 
BLAIR ...I think the whole process would have taken an hour... maybe more. And then I suppose both would have changed back to dog form. 
PALMER Well, that Thing in the ice sure weren't no dog. 
BLAIR (impatient) Of course not... But whatever it was revived, it... Well, The Thing was probably disoriented... and realized it couldn't survive for long in our atmosphere... But being the incredibly adaptable creature it was... it tried to become something that could... Before the Norwegians killed it... it somehow got to this dog. 
CLARK What do you mean "got" to the dog? 
BLAIR It was a life form that was able to imitate and reproduce, whatever it ate or absorbed, cell for cell. 
Silence. 
BLAIR The concept is staggering. I know... I... I don't fully understand it myself. 
CHILDS (skeptically, points) You're saying... that big muther in the ice, became the dog. 
BLAIR (nodding) I think we're talking about an organism... that could imitate other life forms... perfectly... It could have gone on and on... It could have become one dog... It could have become as many dogs as it wanted to -- and without losing any of its original mass... 
NORRIS You been into Childs' weed, Blair? 
Blair slams his fist on the slab. 
BLAIR Look, I know it's hard to believe... 
GARRY (breaking in) So what's our problem? 
BLAIR Well... there's still some cell activity... it's not entirely dead yet. 
Several of the men nearest the carcasses jump back knocking over a chair. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT - CLOSE ON THE DOG CARCASSES 
lying on the snow. Splash. They are being soaked with gasoline. 
FUCHS (O.S.) (in violent protestation) You can't do this! You can't burn these remains... 
Pull back. Fuchs is beside himself. Childs has the large torch. MacReady empties another can on the bodies. Dr. Copper stands nearby. 
MACREADY And the horse you rode in on, Fuchs. (to Childs) Light it up. 
Childs lights the tip. Fuchs makes a determined move for the torch. 
FUCHS Well, I'm not going to let this happen... 
Childs struggles with him for a beat and then flings him to the ground. Dr. Copper grabs him preventing him from getting back up. 
Childs splays the remains with a jet of flame. Fuchs shakes his head in frustration and disgust. 
FUCHS I just can't believe it... We're going to go down as the biggest bunch of assholes in history... 
MACREADY Fuck history. At least we're going to live to be an old bunch of assholes. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. COMPOUND - NIGHT 
Pitch black except for the barest of lighting which outlines the building. Wind. The swirl of ice. 
INT. MACREADY'S CABIN - NIGHT 
Far away from the others, MacReady sits in his little hovel putting the final screw into his mended chess set. 
On the other side of the set, his busty, inflatable companion has been propped up in a chair. His sombrero hangs down her back, keeping her in place. Hawaiian music plays from his tape deck. 
MACREADY All set. 
He puts down his screwdriver, holds up his glass and offers a toast with a big grin. 
MACREADY To us. 
He clinks the drink he has made for her that rests on her side of the board. He sips. He turns on the machine and makes his first move. 
MACREADY Now go easy on me, Esperanza. I'm just a beginner. 
The set answers for Esperanza. 
CHESS VOICE Rook takes bishop at Queen four -- Rook take pawn at Queen two -- Rook takes Queen at Queen one -- Checkmate. 
MACREADY Aw shit. 
He flips open the circuitry panel in disgust. He tosses his screwdriver on the board and grabs his drink, downing it. 
MACREADY Sorry, hon. 
He reaches inside his ice bucket. Empty. 
MACREADY Never any damn ice around here... 
EXT. MACREADY'S CABIN - NIGHT 
MacReady exits. He swacks at a nearby bank of ice with a small ice pick. 
MACREADY Now in Mexico... Tahiti... They got ice... They got ice coming out of their ears. 
The sound of a clanking. He turns his attention. Metal against metal. Strange. MacReady listens. It appears to be coming from far off below, near the camp. 
MACREADY 
as he makes his way down with the aid of the steadying ropes. The clanking louder now. He senses the direction. 
MACREADY 
at the bottom near the main compound.  The sound has stopped. He looks around in the near blackness.  A beat. 
THE CHOPPERS 
sitting idle in the dark. MacReady approaches. The door to one of the cockpits is slightly ajar. He opens it cautiously. 
INT. CHOPPER 
MacReady slips in. He turns on a flashlight. The controls have been mangled. Beaten with something heavy. Bang!! MacReady, startled, turns. Like the sound of a gun. Coming from the main compound. 
INT. COMPOUND - MAIN ENTRANCE 
Confusion. Shouts. MacReady enters. He grabs Palmer as he and Bennings rush by. 
MACREADY What's... 
PALMER Blair. He's gone berserk. 
BENNINGS He's in the radio room. Got a gun. Beat on Sanchez something fierce. 
HALLWAY - RADIO ROOM ENTRANCE 
The men are on either side of the open radio room doorway. 
Garry peeks his head in. A gunshot blast forces him back. 
RADIO ROOM 
Sanchez lies on the floor, groaning. Blair holds the gun on the door. He wields a fire ax with the other hand and smashes down on the radio. 
BLAIR Anybody interferes, I'll kill! Nobody's getting in or out of this camp... 
HALLWAY 
MacReady has joined the others. 
MACREADY He smashed one of the choppers up good. Childs, go check the other one and the tractor. 
Childs is off. 
RADIO ROOM 
EXT. COMPOUND - DAY 
Harsh and grey. Getting very dark as winter takes a stronger hold. Bennings is dumping the trash in a large hole in the snow which acts as the trash dump. 
Bennings finishes and drags the empty bins past Palmer and Childs, who are fixing the wounded choppers. 
INT. RADIO ROOM 
The radio looks a mess. Norris and Sanchez, a bandage wrapped around his head, examines the damage. He is in pain and still looks a little groggy. 
SANCHEZ I'll see what I can do. But they didn't teach me much about fixing these things. 
Norris smiles and pats him comfortingly. 
NORRIS They didn't teach you much about working them either. 
INT. MESS HALL - MORNING 
CLOSE ON A BUFFET OF EGGS, BACON, TOAST, ETC. 
Pull back. The men help themselves. It is a cramped, elongated room. 
Dr. Copper approaches Nauls and hands him a capsule. 
DR. COPPER Put this in Blair's juice before you take him his tray. 
Clark comes running into the room, pallid, out of breath. The men turn to look. 
CLARK The dogs... 
CUT TO: 
INT. THE KENNEL 
Empty. Clark and Garry examine the latch of the kennel door. 
GARRY Doesn't look broken. 
CLARK No. Door was wide open. I know I latched it. 
EXT. COMPOUND ABOVE THE UNDERGROUND KENNEL 
CLOSE ON THE DOGS' TRACKS in the snow. They lead from the kennel's open stairwell and out onto the ice. All the men have gathered. 
CLARK All three of them took off. 
MacReady is writing down what appears to be a list on a pad. 
DR. COPPER How long do you suppose they've been gone? 
CLARK I haven't seen them since their last feeding. Could be as much as twenty- four hours. 
MACREADY They couldn't have gotten that far in this weather. 
Garry and several others turn to MacReady quizzically. 
GARRY You're not thinking of going after them, are you? 
MACREADY I am going after them. 
NORRIS What in the hell for? Even if Blair's right -- they'll just die out there. No food. They're over a thousand miles from anything. 
PALMER Chopper aren't going to be ready for days. 
MacReady hands his list to Bennings. 
MACREADY Get these things out of supply and meet me over by the snowmobiles. 
GARRY You're not going to catch them in one of those with the start they got. 
MACREADY Palmer, how long would it take you to strap those big four-cylinder carburetors on? 
PALMER (grins) Oh, I got you. Not too long. 
MACREADY Then get a move on. Childs, come with me. 
He puts his arm around Childs and pulls him along. The others watch them walk off, a little bewildered. 
GARRY (shouting after them) Besides, what are you going to do when you catch up to them? 
Bennings is reading MacReady's list. 
BENNINGS Holy shit. (hands list to Garry) Whatever he's going to do, he ain't fucking around. 
EXT. OUTDOOR WORK AREA - CLOSE ON THE BARREL 
of the large torch. A fierce stream of flame bursts from its nozzle. 
Pull back. The stream has shot out some fifteen feet. 
Childs has been modifying it. 
It sits, its back to them, unconcerned, heedless of their arrival. It is munching on the other half of the dog carcass. 
The men stop their machines some twenty yards from it. They are hemmed in at the valley's narrowest point. 
Childs, carrying the torch, and MacReady, armed with a thermite bomb, wade awkwardly but carefully toward the animal in their snowshoes. Bennings stands back by the snowmobiles. 
Childs and MacReady spread out some dozen feet from the dog. It continues to pay them no mind, content to chew its food. 
CHILDS Where's the other one? 
Bennings surveys the tops of the snow bluffs that encircle them with his flashlight. 
MACREADY (to dog) Where's your buddy, boy? Huh? 
No response. MacReady searches the near vicinity with his light. All three are growing uneasy. 
MACREADY Let that thing fly, Childs. Don't let up until he's ash. 
Childs turns on the gas and lights the tip. 
Bennings is still watching the bluffs. Something from beneath the snow reaches up and grabs his feet. He is ripped back down through the hard snow in one incredibly powerful motion. He screams, his head the only thing sticking out of the ice. 
Childs and MacReady turn, confused, unable to see anything be Bennings' screaming head. They rush toward him. 
MacReady stumbles. 
The sound of a snapping, a crackling to MacReady's rear. 
He freezes; turns back to the dog. Its back is still to him; its coat of hair sticking up like that of a porcupine. It snarls; its face turns slowly toward him. 
Its skin splitting; its mouth ripping open wildly. 
MACREADY Childs!! 
Childs stops, confused as to who to help first. He notices the dog hunched and ready to spring. He steps back toward MacReady. The dog/Thing leaps for MacReady; an incredible jump of some twenty feet. 
Childs lets loose a blast, hitting the dog in midair; the force of the spray knocking it back and tumbling to the ice in flames. 
MacReady throws his thermite canister. It discharges and engulfs the screeching animal in fire. 
BENNINGS 
howling in pain. The ice underneath him thrashes violently. Childs and MacReady stand by helplessly, unable to see what has him or what action to take. Childs moves closer to help. 
MACREADY (pulls him back) Stay back!! 
Bennings' head disappears with a sudden jerk through the ice. The ice continues to rumble like boiling water, moving in different directions. Part of Bennings' body pops up in a different area and is just as quickly pulled back down. 
MacReady and Childs watch on in frustration and anger. 
CHILDS What we going to do?! 
MACREADY How the fuck do I know?! 
Bennings' head and shoulders then surface near one of the snowmobiles. Something has him. Unclear as to what. The jowls of a dog. But huge. Bennings' heavy clothing begins to rip, tear, as if his skin underneath was bulging out. The jowls seem to be absorbing his head. 
MacReady runs for the snowmobile. 
MACREADY Torch them!! 
CHILDS But... 
MACREADY He's gone already! Do it! 
Childs blasts away. The ice begins to melt as Bennings and whatever has him catch fire. A screeching. 
MacReady grabs cans of gas from the snowmobiles. Suddenly a steel-like, arachnid-shaped arm shoots out in pain and with incredible force pierces the fiberglass chassis of the snowmobile. MacReady is knocked back. He recovers and dumps cans of gasoline on the writhing mess. 
He dives and rolls away from the lunging appendage. 
He and Childs watch on as Bennings and The Thing roar in flame. Behind them, the other dog/Thing continues to burn. The screeching, mewing and gurgling wails on, all about them. 
They look to each other in disbelief, their faces illuminated by the flickering flames. The strident sounds beginning to subside. 
THE SUN 
Its slim, orange arc sets, signaling the start of the Vernal Equinox. And the beginning of six months of darkness. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMPOUND - REC ROOM 
The men are interrogating Clark. He is frazzled and defensive. 
CLARK ...I'm telling you I don't remember leaving the kennel unlatched... 
Childs is holding the industrial torch directly in his face. 
CHILDS Bullshit! You left it open so they could get out! 
EXT. TRASH DUMP 
DR. COPPER (O.S.) Garry. The rest of you! Come here! 
INT. INFIRMARY 
The men rush in. Fuchs and Copper stand by the open plasma storage refrigerator. The inside is a mess of dried blood. The bladders have been ripped open. Copper is ghastly pale. 
DR. COPPER Somebody got to the blood... sabotaged it. 
NAULS Oh, my God. 
A horrified silence. 
MACREADY Was it broken into? 
FUCHS No. Somebody opened it. Closed it. And then locked it. 
Sanchez twitches, terrified. 
MACREADY Well, who's got access to it? 
DR. COPPER I guess I'm the only one. 
GARRY And I've got the only key. 
Several pairs of eyes turn to Garry. 
MACREADY Would that test have worked? 
DR. COPPER I think so. 
NORRIS Somebody else sure as hell thought so. 
MACREADY Who else could have used that key? 
GARRY Ah... no one... I give it to Copper when he needs it... 
MACREADY Could anyone have gotten it from you? 
DR. COPPER I don't see how... when I'm finished I return it right away. 
NORRIS When was the last time you used it? 
DR. COPPER (uneasy) A day or so ago... I guess. 
Garry senses the nervous and inquiring eyes on him. 
GARRY I suppose... well, it's possible someone might have lifted it from me. But... 
CHILDS That key ring of yours is always hooked to your belt. Now how could somebody get to it without you knowing? 
GARRY (upset, flustered) Look, I haven't been near that... that refrigerator. 
Silence as the men continue to stare. Sanchez is perspiring. 
GARRY Copper's the only one who has any business with it. 
The eyes shift from Garry to Copper. 
DR. COPPER Now... wait a second, Garry, you've been in here on several occasions... 
FUCHS And the Doc thought of the test. 
CHILDS (anger) So what?! Is that supposed to leave him in the clear?! Bullshit! 
Sanchez bolts out the door. Stunned for a beat, the others chase after him. 
GARRY Hey, Sanchez! 
SANCHEZ 
in terror, runs at top speed through the narrow corridors. 
Opening and shutting doors. The others are in pursuit. 
They shout for him to stop. 
CUT TO: 
SANCHEZ 
as he reaches a small armory. A glass case set into the wall. A half dozen rarely used guns are inside. He tries the handle. Locked. 
He hears the clamor of feet and voices as the others are nearing. He breaks the glass and grabs a shotgun. Then a box of shells. He frantically tries to load, but is too nervous. 
The others arrive at the end of the hallway. Garry pulls his handgun and points. 
GARRY Put that down! 
SANCHEZ (trembling) No. 
GARRY I'll put this right through your head. 
CHILDS No, Doc. He's doing a real fine job. 
EXT. COMPOUND 
MacReady and Sanchez are foraging through the trash dump. 
MACREADY Look for shoes, too. And burned cloth. 
INT. RADIO ROOM 
Norris has begun dismantling the radio. He rubs at his chest as he disengages the headset. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Following Nauls as he skates through the labyrinth. 
Checking waste bins. Pausing to look behind shelves and any obscure hiding place. 
MacReady passes him coming the other way. 
NAULS That thing's too smart to be hiding any more of its clothes, MacReady. 
MACREADY Just keep looking. 
INT. LAB 
Fuchs is poring over a book. Several others lie open on his desk. 
MacReady pokes his head in the lab. 
MACREADY How's it going? 
FUCHS Nothing yet. But, MacReady, I've been thinking... If our dogs changed by swallowing parts of that other one... We better see to it that everyone prepares their own food and we eat out of cans. 
MACREADY Gotchya. 
EXT. COMPOUND 
A siren goes off, signaling the end of a twenty-minute period. Sanchez pulls himself out of the trash dump. 
Palmer carries a large part of a helicopter engine toward the compound. 
INT. COMPOUND 
The hallway near the supply storage cubicle. MacReady holds the door open as Palmer makes his way to him lugging the heavy helicopter part. 
Childs passes by from the other direction. 
PALMER Childs, where's that magneto from Chopper One? 
CHILDS Ain't it there? 
He passes by. 
PALMER No it ain't there. Would I be asking if it were there? 
MACREADY Move it, Palmer. 
INT. SUPPLY STORAGE ROOM 
Palmer sets down the heavy part. Norris follows him inside with a bundle of radio gear. They move back out into the hallway. MacReady locks the door behind them. 
HALLWAY 
The three move down the hall toward their appointed rendezvous at the rec room. 
MACREADY (to Palmer) Start taking apart those snowmobiles next, huh? 
INT. KITCHEN 
Cramped. Several of the men are preparing their food. 
Opening cans. Heating them in pots. 
EXT. COMPOUND 
Nauls wearily approaches Blair's tool shed with a tray of food. He hears a pounding from within. 
NAULS I got your goodies, superdude. 
He peeks in through the opening in the boarded-up window. 
Blair is nailing himself in from the inside. He looks pretty crazed. 
NAULS What you doin'? 
BLAIR Nobody's getting in here. You can tell them all that! 
NAULS Well, who the hell you think wants to get in there with you? 
Nauls slides the tray in the slot. It is immediately shoved back out and topples onto the ice. Some of the food has splashed on Nauls' heavy coat. 
MACREADY (to Palmer) Well, let's get down there. 
CHILDS (O.S.) MacReady! 
MACREADY What? 
CHILDS (O.S.) Garry's missing! 
MACREADY (to self) Oh, shit! (shouts) Well, hang on! 
CHILDS (O.S.) Gee, thanks! 
INT. GENERATOR ROOM 
Palmer and MacReady stumbling down the stairs. MacReady turns around, looks. 
MACREADY Where's Sanchez? 
Both look around. Sanchez is gone. Palmer's light finds the motionless generator. He examines it. 
PALMER The fuel pump... it's gone... (frantic) You've got to get up to supply, Mca. If we don't get this thing started soon, it'll freeze on us and we'll never get it going. 
MacReady dashes upstairs into the darkness. 
INT. HALLWAY 
The lab door is opened. Fuchs holding a small candle walks out. As he passes, the shoulder of a man springs into frame. 
INT. GENERATOR ROOM 
Palmer is feverishly working underneath the generator on his back. 
INT. REC ROOM 
The temperature continues to drop rapidly. Childs swats himself to keep warm, while still keeping an eye on Dr. Copper and the rest of the room. 
INT. HALLWAY 
MacReady rushes out of the supply room, with a fuel pump, bumps into somebody. 
MACREADY Who... Who is that? 
The silhouette moves on down the hallway. 
MACREADY Sanchez...?  Hey, who... 
PALMER (O.S.) Mac, where the hell is that pump!! 
CUT TO: 
INT. GENERATOR ROOM 
MacReady holds the flashlight for Palmer. Their breath, puffs of white smoke. 
PALMER Somebody definitely messed with it. 
MACREADY We going to make it? 
PALMER Hope so. Another ten, fifteen minutes. What I don't get is... 
The sound of a screeching. From somewhere in the compound. The two men's faces, locked in fear. 
CUT TO: 
INT. REC ROOM 
The generator has been repaired; the lights within the compound are back on. 
Grim and tense. Everyone is present but Fuchs. Eyes flit from man to man. Palmer, Nauls and Sanchez are spread out about the room, keeping as much distance as possible from the rest. 
Norris and Childs are tying the Doctor, Clark and Garry to the couch. MacReady prepares several makeshift blowtorches as he kneels on the ground. 
SANCHEZ Where were the flashlights? 
MACREADY Screw the flashlights. Where the hell were you? 
PALMER Tons of stuff's been missing around here. Magnetos, cables, wire... 
NAULS Kitchen things, too... 
MACREADY Anybody see Fuchs... or hear him...? Huh? 
No answer as the men's faces roam the room. Childs glares at Garry as he begins to tie him in. 
CHILDS Where'd you go? 
Garry's groggy features stare blankly. 
CHILDS I said where? Where'd you go?! 
GARRY Was dark... find a light... 
BLAIR I've changed my mind... I'd... I'd like to come back inside... I don't want to stay out here any more... Funny things... I hear funny things out here. 
MACREADY Have you come across Fuchs? 
BLAIR Fuchs...? No, it's not Fuchs... You must let me back in... I won't harm anyone... I promise... 
MACREADY We'll see... 
He and Nauls trudges off. Blair shouts after them. 
BLAIR I promise! I'm much better now! I'll be good!! I'm all better!! Don't leave me here!! 
INT. REC ROOM 
Norris continues his watch on the sedated trio. He anxiously tries to keep an eye on the various entrances behind and in front of him. He rubs his chest in pain. 
DR. COPPER I'm getting worried about you. You ought to have a checkup. 
NORRIS Let's just not get worried about anything just now. 
DR. COPPER (yawning) After all this mess then. 
NORRIS (nodding) After all this mess. 
EXT. COMPOUND - THE SLOPE TO MACREADY'S SHACK 
The winds are thick and vicious now. MacReady and Nauls pull themselves along the rope fighting their way up the slope. A violent gust sends MacReady's body horizontal, but still hanging onto the rope. The wind slaps him back down. His flare and torch tumble back toward Nauls. 
Nauls saves the torch from rolling down the hill. 
MacReady, lying vulnerable, watches Nauls pull his way toward him. He tenses. Nauls reaches him. A beat. He hands back his torch. Relieved, MacReady pulls himself upright. 
INT. COMPOUND - KITCHEN - CLOSE ON THICK POWER CABLES 
that line the wall. They have been torn apart. Childs and Palmer examine. 
PALMER Auxiliary light cables...? Been cut. 
CHILDS Cut, bullshit. Been pulled apart. 
EXT. MACREADY'S SHACK 
as they reach the top. The remaining flare their only light. Very dark. They stand on either side of the door. MacReady shoves it open. Pitch black inside. MacReady flips the light switch. Doesn't work. 
INT. SHACK 
They enter. Hunched. Torches ready. The place is a mess. The winds as strong as on the outside. 
The single flare illuminating the ceiling. Almost all of the corrugated, steel roofing is gone. As if ripped off. 
NAULS (shouting to be heard) Where's the roof?! 
MacReady stares up incredulous, as they advance through the room. 
NAULS This storm do that? 
MACREADY (shouting) Couldn't be possible. Must have weighted a ton and a half... 
Nauls kicks over a chair. A naked, fleshy object bounds high into the air. Nauls thrusts out his torch, catching the breasts of the inflatable woman. She pops and is sucked out through the hole in the roof. 
Nauls tries to catch his breath. 
NAULS Goddamn white women. 
INT. COMPOUND 
Underground, rickety corridor. Palmer stands by as Childs undoes the many locks to the room that houses his plants. 
One by one. Palmer twists his head in every which direction. Nervous. 
Childs pulls open the heavy door. A flush of snow and wind push them back. They wedge their bodies at the entrance to the lightless room. 
CHILDS My babies. 
They enter. The light from the hall exposes the completely smashed-in window high above the plants. The plants look frozen. 
PALMER Somebody broke in. 
CHILDS Now who'd go and do... 
Saddened, angry, Childs goes to check the damage to his plants. Palmer, his face set in horror, yanks him back. 
PALMER Childs!! 
CHILDS Let go of me... 
PALMER Don't get near 'em. The plants! They're alive. Those things can imitate anything... 
CHILDS What's it going to do, being a plant? 
Palmer readies his small torch. 
The others surround him. 
PALMER Where's MacReady? 
Nauls weighs each of them ominously, while digging down underneath his heavy jacket. 
NAULS Cut him loose of the line up by his shack. 
CHILDS Cut him loose? 
NAULS When we were up poking around his place... I found this... 
He pulls out a thick bundle of heavy clothing. It is mutilated and partially burned. He holds out the jacket to show the inside collar. 
Close on name tag -- it reads: R.J. MACREADY The men, as they examine in a hush. 
NAULS ...It was stashed in his old coal furnace... wind must have dislodged it... I don't think he saw me find it. 
The men continue to examine in various states of disbelief. 
NAULS ...Made sure I got ahead of him on the towline on the way back... cut him loose. 
SANCHEZ (incredulous) MacReady...? 
NAULS He's one of them. 
SANCHEZ (scared) When do you think it got to him? 
PALMER Could have been anytime. Anywhere. 
CHILDS (to Nauls, suspicious) If it did get to him. 
NAULS Look, man... 
PALMER When the lights went out... 
NORRIS Would have been a perfect time... 
PALMER Right. Garry was missing... (pointedly) ...And Sanchez... 
SANCHEZ (goes for him) Fuck you, Palmer. 
Childs and Norris separate them. 
NORRIS This is just what it wants... to pit us against each other. 
A pounding at the door sends the men jerking backward. 
Nauls scampers to his feet. They tense. 
MACREADY (O.S.) Open up! 
No answer as the men surround the door, their weapons ready. Fear. 
MACREADY (O.S.) ...Hey, somebody! Open up, it's me, MacReady... (still nothing) ...Come on, damn it... The towline snapped. Been crawling around like a seal out here... 
NAULS (harsh whisper) Bullshit! He's got to know damn well I cut it! 
The men keep their voices low. 
PALMER Let's open it. 
CHILDS Hell no. 
More pounding. 
SANCHEZ (shaking) You think he's changed into one of those Things? 
NORRIS He hasn't had enough time. 
CHILDS ...Nothing human could have made it back here in this weather without a guideline... 
MACREADY (O.S.) ...Where is everybody?! I'm half frostbit! 
PALMER Let's open it. Now... 
CHILDS (edgy, hostile) Why you so damn anxious to let him in here... 
PALMER (slightly trembling) He's so close. Maybe our best chance to blow him away. 
CHILDS No. Just let him freeze out there. 
SANCHEZ (voice cracking) What if we're wrong about him? 
CHILDS Then we're wrong. 
The muffled breaking of a window down the hall. The men turn. 
PALMER The supply window! 
SANCHEZ (terror) What we going to... 
MACREADY So you sweethearts had yourselves a little trial. I just may have to kill you on general principle, Nauls. 
Copper begins swathing Norris' chest with a gelatin substance. 
MACREADY ...Ever occur to the jury that anybody could have gotten to some of my clothes and stuck them up... 
CHILDS We ain't buying that. 
DR. COPPER Damn it, quit the bickering and give me a hand. Wheel that fibrillator over here. 
Sanchez pushes over the portable fibrillator. Copper climbs up on the table and straddles Norris' chest. 
Unnoticed, Clark paws the contents of the instrument tray behind his back. 
DR. COPPER Palmer, turn on that oxygen and hold the mask over his face... Childs, grab his shoulders. 
They do so. Copper holds electrical prongs over Norris' chest. 
CHILDS (to MacReady, threatening) You're going to have to sleep sometime. 
DR. COPPER Quiet down... (to Sanchez) ...turn that thing on. 
Sanchez depresses the "on" button. 
DR. COPPER Now hold him. 
MACREADY I'm a real light sleeper, Childs... 
DR. COPPER Enough, MacReady! 
Dr. Copper presses the prongs onto Norris' chest and shoots a bolt of current. Norris' body heaves upward. A slight crackling sound and an odd chirp through the oxygen mask. 
DR. COPPER Again... More current this time, Sanchez... 
Buzzz. Several more jolts from the prongs. Clark's hand has found a scalpel. He gently lifts it out, bringing it to his side. 
MACREADY And if anyone tries to wake me... 
DR. COPPER Damn you, MacReady! 
Norris' body begins bounding up. More crackling and popping. His chest begins to break up and spread. The mask pops off -- a hideous mewing escaping from Norris' distorted mouth. 
The men jump back, incredulous. Dr. Copper scrambles off his chest and flops to the floor. 
SANCHEZ God... what...? 
They watch on in stunned horror as The Thing that was Norris begins to change, to spread awkwardly on the slab. 
Its clothes tearing. A shoe splits in half and falls to the floor, exposing the beginnings of a talon. 
MacReady charges toward it, shooing the men off. 
MACREADY Get out of the way!! 
He unloads with a stream of flame. The body writhes in pain, belching and hissing. The slab catches fire. It struggles, lunges for the floor, straightens up, and moves a few feet. 
A black and yellow substance rips through its trousers and squirts to the floor. Norris' body collapses on the fibrillating machine in flames. Extinguishers are ripped from the walls and put to work. 
MacReady watches the smoking particles of ooze in fascination, as they twitch and mew on the floor. 
Within seconds the fire is out. The men stand around in awe as they look upon The Thing that was once Norris. 
MacReady continues to observe the small particles. Their tiny squeals abating into silence. 
INT. REC ROOM 
MacReady, still carrying the industrial torch, has maneuvered all the men into the room. He holds Garry's .44. He has untaped the explosives from his chest and laid them on the nearby table next to two more boxes of dynamite. 
CLARK What you got in mind, MacReady? 
MACREADY A little test. 
PALMER What kind of test? 
MACREADY I'm sure a lot of you already know. 
He tosses a ream of steel cable and some rope to Palmer. 
MACREADY Palmer, you and Copper tie everyone down. Real tight. 
CHILDS What for? 
MACREADY For your health. 
GARRY (to others) Let's rush him. He's not going to blow us all up. 
MACREADY Damn if I won't. 
CHILDS (a beat) You ain't tying me up. 
MACREADY Then I'll have to kill you. 
NAULS What about Childs? 
MACREADY Forget about Childs. He's over. 
Nauls begins cutting the wicks off the dynamite. 
GARRY Make 'em short. They'll go off quicker if we need to use them. 
The wind belts into the roofing overhead. Garry sets the wiring to the main doorway. MacReady begins blocking off one of the other entrances with a large computer. 
SANCHEZ What if it doesn't come? 
MACREADY It'll come. It needs us. We're the only thing left to imitate... (to Sanchez) Give me a hand. 
They block off a door with two heavy electrical games. 
MACREADY (to Sanchez) You and Nauls got to block off the west side bunks, the mess hall and the kitchen. 
NAULS (protest) You crazy? He might be inside already? 
MACREADY Chance we got to take. We got to force him to come down the east side to the door we got rigged. 
Nauls starts lacing his skates. 
SANCHEZ He might just wait us out. 
MACREADY I'm going to blow the generator when you get back. He'll have to come for us -- or freeze. 
MacReady further barricades the door with small couch. 
MACREADY We've got portable heaters -- we'll last longer. 
Sanchez and Nauls start to leave. 
MACREADY ...Hold it. 
He dispenses the capsules. 
MACREADY Sodium cyanide. We place them between our cheeks and gums... This Thing can't imitate anything that's dead. 
A grim silence. 
MACREADY If it gets a hold of you -- bite down... They're supposed to be fast and painless... Now move. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CORRIDOR 
Sanchez and Nauls inch their way through. 
INT. REC ROOM 
MacReady rips linen, soaks the strips in gas, and stuffs them in the Molotov bottles. Garry tests the current on the door. Popping, sparks, smoke. 
MACREADY Looks good. 
GARRY One thousand volts. Should be enough. 
INT. KITCHEN 
Nauls pushes a stove, reinforcing a locked door. Five yards away, Sanchez maneuvers the refrigerator in front of another outlet. 
Sanchez hears a quiet purring, bubbling sound. He turns to Nauls. 
SANCHEZ You hear that? 
NAULS Hear what? 
A blaring. They whip their attention to stereo speakers on either side of the kitchen. Rock music screams out. Top volume. 
INT. REC ROOM 
The same loud music. MacReady and Garry look to the three speakers attached to the walls. MacReady yells his incomprehension to Garry. Garry tries to respond. Their voices drowned out. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Empty. Another of the stereo speakers that line the walls, thunders. 
INT. KITCHEN 
Nauls, in sudden realization, screams over the din and points back in the direction they came. 
NAULS It's got into the pub! It's turned on the stereo! 
SANCHEZ What?! 
NAULS It's in between us and them!! How we going to get back?! 
SANCHEZ I can't hear you. 
INT. REC ROOM 
MACREADY Wait... 
The door begins to pound from the outside. Nauls and MacReady light two cocktails each. 
The door booms. The room's foundations shake. The ceiling quivers. The gas bombs are cocked. 
From the roof The Thing roars down into their midst. 
Stunned, the men stumble back. MacReady throws his gas bomb. Nauls the same. 
For a moment it stands silhouetted in flame. Enormous. 
Grotesque. 
Garry bolts for the main door. The Thing's tongue spirals from his mouth and spears him. The good two-thirds of its body follows its tongue and engulfs Garry by the door. 
Another leg slaps Nauls to the ground. MacReady dodges still another appendage, dives on the generators and throws the switch. 
The current rips through the door. Garry dies instantly. 
One of The Thing's talons, still caught in the door, sends it writhing in pain. It literally rips the door from its latchings and pounds it to the ground, trying to shake it loose. Nauls, hobbles, scrambles, out of the opening. 
MacReady dives through the window and out into the storm. 
CUT TO: 
INT. COMPOUND - HALL 
The distant sound of a motor. Nauls, battered and bloodied, his leg apparently broken, crawls along the ground. Another sound, a bubbling and gurgling is heard well to his rear. But closing. 
The terror forces him to drag faster, oblivious to the pain. 
He reaches the bathroom stall. Crawls in. Locks it. The gurgling nears. Leaning on the toilet seat, he looks about himself, frantically. 
The Presence pauses at the door. A scratching. Nauls paws, rips at a cracked and weathered slab of wood, cutting his fingers as he tries to break it off the siding. 
A strong blow begins to breach the stall door. Nauls finally unhinges the piece of wood, brings the jagged end to one side of his throat and rips... 
INT. LAB WALL 
The motorized rumbling nears. The wall seems to explode. The tractor barrels into the lab. Its enormous shovel scooper tearing half the room to shreds. 
MacReady drives. His eyes glint like a wild man's; he looks stark raving mad. 
His frostbite, now in an advanced stage, resembles black war paint. He clenches a stick of dynamite between his teeth, like a buccaneer's cutlass. Two large, compressed air tanks have been tied together at the top and are draped around his neck. They are marked -- HYDROGEN. 
They are used for the weather balloons. 
He pulls the tractor to a stop, yanks the stick from his mouth, grins and bellows. 
MACREADY Okay, creep! Just you and me now! Be on your toes! We're going to do a little remodeling! 
MacReady guns it through the next wall and into the infirmary. Medical equipment goes flying. The machine is powerful; the prefabricated walls buckling under its force. 
INT. COMPOUND 
A trail of viscous yellow ooze leads around a bend. 
Boom. 
MacReady rams into the mess hall, sweeping away tables, chairs. He sings out loud the lyrics of some Mexican song. All the while he keeps his eyes on everything. 
Through the kitchen. The foundation is crumbling. He sings on. 
NARROW PASSAGEWAY 
Gurgling and hissing. A taloned arm slinks around a corner in retreat. 
MACREADY (O.S.) Chime in if you know that words, old boy. 
MACREADY 
plows through several more rooms before ending up in the pub area. He backs it up and retrieves a bottle of liquor from the bar. 
MACREADY You like whiskey? Come on, join me for a drink. Be good for you. Grow fangs on your chest. 
He takes a drink and rams through another wall. 
INT. REC ROOM 
The tractor blazes into the rec room. MacReady parks it directly in front of the hole in the roof, created by The Thing when it surprised them earlier. 
MACREADY Damn it, ran out of gas. 
He pulls off the heavy hydrogen tanks and drapes them over the tractor. As he talks his eyes move like a hawk passing from roof, to doorways, to rubble. 
Wind and ice bristle through the gaping holes, stinging MacReady with the cold. He winces at his mittenless, blackened fingers. 
MACREADY Sweetheart, it's going to get mighty cold in here soon... You better make your move... I mean, hell, I'm only one person... 
He takes a swig from his bottle. 
