"Three Kings (Spoils of War)", unproduced draft, by John Ridley 
SPOILS OF WAR 
by 
John Ridley 
WRITER'S FIRST DRAFT JULY 26th, 1995 
OVER BLACK WE SEE OPENING CREDITS 
FADE TO: 
VIDEO IMAGE 
President Bush in the Oval Office delivering an address to the American people. 
PRESIDENT BUSH ...This act of naked aggression must be checked.  The United States, along with coalition forces from the Middle East, have drawn a line in the sand.  There is only one way for this situation to be satisfactorily resolved.  The belligerent forces from the Republic of Iraq must be removed from Kuwait, be it by choice, or by force... 
FADE TO: 
BLACK 
FADE TO: 
EXT. DESERT - DAY 
From a distance we see a Humvee sitting alone in the middle of a huge, empty desert.  Just the Humvee, nothing else for miles.  We hear the sound of a man making machine gun-like noises. 
JAEGER (V.O.) At-at-at-at-at.  At-at-at-at-at. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
CU - HUMVEE 
There are three soldiers at the Humvee.  Second Lieutenant JOHN EPPS,                   who sweeps the horizon with a pair of binoculars.  PFC WES HAMMOND, who is behind the wheel looking very bored, and PFC MARK JAEGER, who is at the Humvee's thirty caliber machine gun, making the noises and shooting at phantom troops.  When Jaeger talks it's with all the swagger of a B-movie hero. 
JAEGER At-at-at-at-at.  At-at-at-at-at. 
EPPS What are you doing? 
JAEGER What does it look like I'm doing?  I'm killing Iraqis.  At-at-at-at-at.  At-at- at-at-- 
WES Could you stop, please.  You're giving me a headache. 
JAEGER A headache? 
WES Yeah, a headache.  My head hurts.  You're making me uncomfortable. 
JAEGER I'm making you uncomfortable.  Baking away in a desert in the middle of nowhere facing three-hundred-thousand screaming Iraqis with nerve gas scud missiles, that doesn't bother you.  But me making a little noise is driving you out of your skull. 
WES Yes.  Yes.  That's exactly it.  Yes. 
JAEGER Okay. 
Jaeger goes right back to playing soldier. 
JAEGER(CONT) At-at-at-at-at. 
EPPS Knock it off! 
JAEGER Don't get pissed at me, just 'cause I want to be ready when this war starts. 
EPPS Ready for what?  What are you supposed to be doing? 
JAEGER I told you, I'm shooting Iraqis. 
EPPS No you're not. 
Epps points in the opposite direction that Jaeger was 'firing.' 
EPPS(CONT) The Iraqis are that way.  Those are our troops you're shooting at. 
With his binoculars Epps looks in the direction Jaeger was shooting. 
EPPS(CONT) You know what?  I think you got Schwarzkopf.  You did!  You got the General right in the ass.  Now that's good shooting. 
JAEGER Blow me. 
EPPS Another month in this desert and I might just. 
WES Think we're going to do it?  Think we're going to war? 
EPPS Not up to us.  Up to the Iraqis.  All they have to do is get out of Kuwait. 
EPPS Can you eat it?  If you can't eat it I really don't care what it is. 
JAEGER Ask him what it is. 
Wes says something to the vendor in Arabic.  The Vendor answers back. 
WES He says it's a box. 
JAEGER Yeah, you're funny. 
WES It's a puzzle box.  If you can figure out how to open it there's supposed to be a treasure inside. 
JAEGER (Excited) For real?  A treasure? 
EPPS Oh, man, you're not going to fall for that. 
JAEGER There might be something in there. 
EPPS Yeah, the deed to the Brooklyn bridge. 
JAEGER There might be. 
WES And you're the guy who's going to open it. 
JAEGER I could. 
EPPS You could turn on a light if someone put your hand on the switch. 
Decisively, without even haggling about price, Jaeger whips out some money and pays the vendor for the box. 
EPPS(CONT) Well, that showed me.  Now, can we eat? 
The three men walk on, Jaeger starting to work on the puzzle box. 
CUT TO: 
INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT 
It's filled with young soldiers messing around, playing cards, listening to music, whatever.  Jaeger lays on a bunk holding the puzzle box, probing it with his fingers, trying to find a way to make it open. 
Wes crosses over. 
WES You get it yet? 
JAEGER Naw, nothing. 
WES You will.  You'll get it. 
JAEGER I'll show Epps.  He'll be sorry when I get this thing open. 
WES You really think there's a treasure inside? 
JAEGER I don't care if there's a lump of coal in here.  I just want to be able to rub Epps' face in it when I crack this thing. 
Wes watches Jaeger work the box for a beat. 
WES Jaeger? 
JAEGER What? 
WES You know the fifteenth is the deadline for the Iraqis to get out of Kuwait. 
JAEGER Yeah.  So? 
WES That's in two days. 
JAEGER Like I said; so? 
WES They're cancelling all leaves, all passes.  No more drills.  We stand at full ready starting-- 
JAEGER What's your point, Wes?  You have a point? 
WES We're going to war, aren't we.  If they're doing all that it must mean we're going to war. 
JAEGER It doesn't mean anything. 
WES Why would they do all that if we weren't? 
Jaeger, frustrated, finally looks up from his box. 
JAEGER Okay, so we're going to war.  We're supposed to go to war.  We're soldiers, that's what we do.  The guns, the tanks, the planes; you're just now getting the hint we're in the war business? 
Jaeger goes back to his box.  Wes stands over him for a beat longer, then: 
WES Jaeger? 
EPPS Go on, man. 
Jaeger pokes his finger through the wax and pulls it off the tube.  He sticks his finger back into the container and draws out a rolled up piece of paper. 
WES Paper. 
EPPS It's a fortune box. 
Jaeger unrolls it. 
WES What's it say? 
EPPS Help, I'm being held prisoner in a puzzle box factory. 
We see the paper.  Lines are drawn on it, large, crude figures.  It's hard to make out exactly what it all is supposed to represent. 
JAEGER It's a drawing, or something.  Some kind of art. 
Epps takes the paper from Jaeger and gives it a once over. 
EPPS Looks like something a kid would do. 
Wes takes the paper and looks it over. 
WES It's a map, I think that's what it is. 
EPPS There you go, Jaeger.  Just find the buried treasure, and you're a millionaire. 
Jaeger takes back the paper.  All excited like a kid on Christmas: 
JAEGER You think? 
EPPS Yeah, that's exactly what I think.  You and the five thousand other suckers who bought those boxes.  Let's get out of here.  We got sand to protect. 
Epps and Wes load up and get ready to move out.  Jaeger just keeps staring at the map, eyes lit like candles. 
CUT TO: 
INT. INTELLIGENCE ROOM - LATER 
The room is filled with maps, recon photos, HUMINT reports. They're posted on the walls with various levels of troop strength - allied and Iraqi - indicated.  More data is constantly flowing in, analyzed and processed. 
Jaeger enters, spots WOODS - a young soldier on intel detail - and crosses over to him. 
JAEGER Woods. 
WOODS Hey, Jaeger.  What's up. 
JAEGER I'm looking for a favor.  I need a map of Iraqi. 
WOODS A map?  All I got is maps.  I'm gonna have Delayed Map Syndrome when I finally get out of here.  What kind of map you need?  Topographical, geographical, thermal? 
JAGER I don't know.  A map map. 
WOODS A map map. 
Woods pulls out a map and hands it to Jaeger. 
WOODS(CONT) That shouldn't be too hard to read.  Iraq is the pink thing. 
JAEGER I could use some recon photos too. 
Woods gives Jaeger a sideways glance. 
WOODS Planning on going to war all by your lonesome? 
JAEGER Just...want to be ready when we do. 
WOODS Ready for what?  Sight-seeing? 
JAEGER The photos. 
Woods starts to dig for photos. 
JAEGER(CONT) Some good ones. 
WOODS They're all good ones.  Satellites we've got can snap a shot of the boil on Saddam's ass. 
JAEGER Saddam's got a boil on his ass? 
Woods looks up at Jaeger with an expression that says: "What?" 
JAEGER(CONT) I don't know. 
Woods goes back to looking, pulls some photos and hands them to Jaeger. 
EPPS What are you talking about? 
Jaeger pulls out the drawing from the puzzle box. 
EPPS(CONT) Don't even.  You're not going to show me that tired map. 
JAEGER Wait.  Wait. 
Jaeger starts to tear at his pockets like he's trying to get at a bee.  He pulls out his other maps, recon photos...  The guy's a walking atlas. 
Epps looks on in shock at the spectacle. 
EPPS I think you've got some issues to deal with.  Really, when we get out of here I'm pretty sure it's shrink time for you. 
JAEGER Just listen to me!  I've been doing some reading.  In the Sixteenth century this region was invaded by the Turks.  It became part of the Ottoman empire.  When the Turks rolled in they raped, they pillaged, the usual stuff.  Anybody who had anything wanted to hide it from these bastards.  They buried their treasures, drew maps, and hid the maps in puzzle boxes.  I read about this, man.  I read about it. 
EPPS (Sarcastic) Wellllll, if you read it it must be true. Was it in the Star, or the Enquirer? 
JAEGER Christ!  Wes, tell him.  You know this stuff. 
WES The Turks invaded, yeah. I guess people would have hidden what they had.  But that doesn't mean what was in that box is-- 
Jager holds up the puzzle box drawing to one of the maps. 
JAEGER Looks at this!  Look at it!  The drawing is a map of this area right here.  You can see it.  The geography, the landmarks.  It's the same area. 
Epps grabs the map from Jaeger. 
EPPS And you know what that area is?  It's Iraq.  IRAQ!  We're doing a little thing with them right now; Desert Storm.  Maybe you've read about it. 
JAEGER What we're doing is kicking ass.  For God's sake they got Iraqis surrendering to news crews.  The war is over.  We've just got to keep shooting people 'cause the army spent all this money, and we've got to put on a show for the taxpayers. 
WES You're not saying what I think you're saying.  I can't believe you're even thinking it. 
JAEGER It's right here.  This region; an-Nagaf. I got recon photos.  There're no troops there, no fighting-- 
WES You don't know where the Iraqis have moved to.  And our forces haven't even engaged the Republican Guard yet, we don't know-- 
JAEGER It's about a hundred miles from where we are now.  How long do you think it would take us to-- 
WES It's not a hundred miles.  It's a hundred miles through three different kinds of terrain:  Pure desert, mountains, a river.  If the map is even real. 
JAEGER It's real.  I'm telling you, it's real. 
WES So you just want to cross into hostile territory in the middle of a war on a wild goose chase?  It's crazy.  Tell him it's crazy, Epps. 
Epps thinks.  He doesn't say nuthin', just thinks.  It's the thinking that makes Wes nervous. 
WES(CONT) Epps, tell him. 
Epps gets a little more thinking in.  Wes sees which way this is going. 
WES You're out of your minds, you know that? Both of you.  You don't even know if there's anything out there.  What the hell are you thinking? 
EPPS I'm thinking about when this war is over. Why you figure I'm here?  'Cause I got tired of being president of GM?  If a brother doesn't play ball, or deal drugs there aren't too many big money prospects around, and I'm not particularly interested in spending the rest of my life fighting the oil companies' wars. So I say if maybe there's something out there, what the hell, that's what I say. 
Wes can't believe what he's hearing.  He pulls out the last card he has to play. 
WES It's desertion. 
Jaeger sweeps a hand across the great nothingness. 
JAEGER Deserting what?  What the hell are we deserting? 
Both Jaeger and Epps close on Wes for the hard sell. 
EPPS It's war.  People get lost all the time in war, cut off-- 
JAEGER We disappear for awhile.  We disappear, we came back; nobody knows nothing. 
EPPS But we all got to be in for this.  We all go, or we do nothing. 
WES Epps, you're smarter than this.  Jaeger I understand, but you're smarter. 
JAEGER You know it's real.  You know it's real, and you know it's there.  You know it. 
WES You're insane if you think you'll find anything, and sure insane if you think you can get us there and back alive. 
EPPS If you say that, then I say you don't know Second Lieutenant Epps very well, do you? 
Wes buries his head in his hands.  He squeezes at it hard like he'd rather make his brains ooze out his ears than say what he's going to say. 
WES God!  I don't believe I'm doing this.  I don't. 
JAEGER Yes! 
CUT TO: 
I/E. HUMVEE - SIMULTANEOUS 
The occupants jostle as the Hummer touches down.  Epps and Jaeger laugh and high five.  Wes is content just to go on looking sick. 
JAEGER Hey, Wes, what kind of treasure you figure these people buried? 
WES If!  If there's a treasure. 
JAEGER Yeah.  If.  Whatever.  What kind you figure it is? 
WES I don't know.  It would be small, easy to transport and hide.  Gold or jewels. Probably gold. 
JAEGER Yeah!  Gold!  How much? 
WES How the hell should I know how much? 
EPPS But that's the great thing about Gold.  A little goes a long way. 
JAEGER You know what I'm doing with my part of the gold? 
WES If there's gold.  If! 
JAEGER You know what I'm doing with my half? 
Epps turns to Jaeger.  There's just the slightest, slightest hint of edge brushed across his tone. 
EPPS Third.  What you're going to do with your third. 
JAEGER Yeah.  I meant... You know what I'm going to do with it?  I'm going to buy a Sixty- three 'Vette Stingray.  All tricked out and cherry.  I'm going to be so sweet. 
EPPS A car?  You're going to buy a car? 
WES This is too much.  You don't even have the money and you're wasting it. 
JAEGER A car is not just a car where I come from.  I had this friend, had this wicked candy apple red Sixty-four and a half Mustang-- 
EPPS You're getting gold, and you're going to blow it on wheels? 
JAEGER What are you going to do with your third? 
EPPS Invest it. 
JAEGER Oh, that's fun. 
EPPS It's not about being fun.  It's about being smart.  You take that money, you take care of it, let it grow, and you don't ever have to do anything again. Ever.  That's freedom.  That's what I'm talking about. 
JAEGER And I'm talking about enjoying myself. 
EPPS You know, you sound just like a boy who's never-- 
WES What's that? 
Jaeger and Epps look out the front windshield.  A plume of sand rises up from the desert several hundred meters before them.  So engrossed in their discussion previously they hadn't even noticed until Wes pointed it out. 
Epps reaches over and kills the tape player.  A loud quiet comes with it.  All three men just stare at the plume as it drifts closer.  Finally: 
EPPS Take the binoculars. 
JAEGER Wh-what do you think-- 
EPPS TAKE THE GODDAMN BINOCULARS! 
Jaeger scrambles up the binoculars, and stares off into the distance.  Epps and Wes wait...they wait... 
JAEGER Iraqis. 
WES Oh, God! 
JAEGER Two vehicles.  They're not supposed to be here. 
WES Oh, Jesus! 
JAEGER They're not...I had the pictures. They're not supposed to be here! 
EPPS Shut up!  Both of you shut the hell up! 
JAEGER We've got to do something.  We've got to turn around. 
EPPS We can see them, they can see us.  We run, they chase. 
WES What are we going to do? 
Epps thinks.  Thinking's not good enough for Wes. 
WES Him getting us stranded out here doesn't do much good either. 
JAEGER We're not stranded.  We've got enough gas in the other reserve to get us back. 
WES Then lets go back while we still can. 
JAEGER As soon as we hit the mountain we would have had to go on foot anyway.  We're not that far.  We can make it. 
EPPS What do we do with the Humvee? 
JAEGER We leave it. 
WES What if someone takes it? 
Jaeger throws his arms wide to the empty desert. 
JAEGER Who?  Who's going to take it.  We mark the location with the navicom, we can come right back to this spot. 
Wes has had enough. 
WES You two don't even know how crazy you are.  You want to go on your sick, little treasure hunt then go ahead, but mark me absent. 
JAEGER You have to go with us, Wes. 
WES Really?  What is that, an order, private? 
JAEGER You have to go with us.  You can't walk back... 
Jaeger dangles the keys to the Humvee from a finger. 
JAEGER{CONT) And you sure as hell aren't going to drive. 
Wes burns a hole through Jaeger's head with his eyes.  Epps steps to him. 
EPPS Load what you can; water, tools, weapons. Anything you think we might need. 
Wes burns on a bit more, then turns and heads for the Hummer. Jaeger watches him go, then smiles to himself. 
JAEGER Who's he kidding?  He wants it as bad as we do.  We're going to be fat, Epps.  As soon as we get back to Saudivillie you and me are going to-- 
Epps gets up in Jaeger's face.  The menace he projects is very real. 
EPPS We're going to keep going 'cause I want some of whatever's out there.  But you ever pull something like trying to get my ass stranded out here again, and I'll kill you myself.  You got that? 
Jaeger just stands there, his fear swelling. 
EPPS(CONT) SAY IT! 
JAEGER I got that...sir. 
Epps storms over towards the Hummer leaving Jaeger to be all scared with himself. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DESERT - LATER 
A long line of footprints works their way through the sand up to Epps, Jaeger, and Wes.  Epps and Wes trek side by side. 
Jaeger is behind them, having trouble keeping up.  Between pants he gasps: 
JAEGER Hey...hey!  Slow up.  You don't have to go so fast. 
EPPS Faster we get there, faster we get back. 
JAEGER Yeah.  I know.  I'm with you. 
Jaeger struggles on just a bit more, then: 
JAEGER(CONT) I'm gonna...I'm just gonna stop for a little water. 
EPPS Don't drink up all of yours, 'cause you aren't getting any of ours. 
JAEGER I'm just going to have a little sip, that's all.  Just a sip. 
Jaeger lets himself drop down into the sand.  He looks up. Epps and Wes are still walking. 
JAGER{CONT) Wait for me! 
EPPS You can catch up. 
JAEGER Yeah...I'm right behind you. 
Wes looks back at Jaeger sitting on the ground sucking on his water. 
WES Thanks for straightening out Jaeger. 
JAEGER How'm I gonna relax standing on a mine!? 
EPPS We're going to get off, all right.  We'll get you off of there.  Just...be cool. 
Epps goes to Wes.  The two start to move away from Jaeger. 
JAEGER Where you going? 
EPPS Me and Wes are just going to talk. 
JAEGER Why you got to move away to talk!? 
EPPS We're going to be right over here. 
JAEGER You're moving away because it's going to blow up, isn't it!?  It's going to blow up! 
EPPS I said be cool, all right?  Now be cool! 
Epps and Wes move over and huddle. 
WES What kind of mine? 
EPPS I don't know, and I wasn't about to mess with it. 
WES Should have blown already.  Delayed fuse, that's Vietnam stuff. 
EPPS Maybe that's all the Iraqis could afford, okay?  Maybe they got it on discount. Maybe the fuse is messed up.  Or maybe it's going to go off in two seconds, and we won't have to worry about getting Jaeger down off there, all we'll have to worry about is finding the pieces. 
Behind them, pathetically, Jaeger cries: 
JAEGER Epps... 
WES Doesn't matter.  We're not going to be able to get him off it anyway. 
EPPS There's a way. 
JAEGER Epps... 
WES Can't do it.  Can't do it, and keep him alive. 
Epps' eyes narrow.  He doesn't want to hear this kind of talk. 
EPPS I said nobody dies.  Nobody dies. 
JAEGER Epps, my leg is falling asleep. 
Epps thinks, and thinks hard. 
EPPS (To Wes) We've got rope? 
WES For climbing. 
EPPS Break it out. 
Epps crosses back over to Jaeger. 
JAEGER My leg is falling asleep. 
EPPS It's not falling asleep.  You've only been standing there for three minutes. 
JAEGER I'm the one who can feel my leg, and it's falling asleep. 
EPPS It falls asleep and you die, so wake it the hell up. 
Wes crosses over with climbing rope.  Very, very gently Epps wraps the middle of the rope around Jaeger's waist leaving several feet dangling off each end. 
JAEGER How's this going to work? 
EPPS Me and Wes each going take an end of the rope, run our asses of, and yank you off the mine. 
JAEGER That's going to do it, right?  I'm going to be okay. 
Not too convincingly: 
EPPS You're going to be fine. 
JAEGER You're not going to let me die, are you!? Don't let me die! 
Ignoring the question: 
EPPS When we start running suck up your breath.  You're going to get the wind knocked out of you. 
JAEGER Don't let me die, Epps.  I don't want to die. 
Epps and Wes pick up separate ends of the rope, and take up positions behind Jaeger.  Epps waits a beat, afraid of what might happen, but there is no choice.  He digs in ready to take off running.  Wes whispers to him: 
JAEGER The map. 
Epps stops, like he almost not sure what Jaeger is talking about.  Jaeger extends a hand. 
JAEGER(CONT) The map. 
Epps gets it.  He hands the map back to Jaeger who tucks it away.  Our boys walk on. 
EPPS You're not losing trust, are you? 
JAEGER Just figure it's my map, I ought to hang on to it. 
WES If all we wanted was the map out of you we could have taken it while you were standing on that mine pissing on yourself. 
JAEGER Probably would've too if Epps wasn't around to stop you. 
EPPS I didn't have to stop anything, 'cause nobody was going to do nothing.  We're in this together, understand? 
JAEGER Yeah, I understand.  Wes doesn't want to come along in the first place, but he gets a third of the find.  That's a sweet deal. 
WES I'm getting tired of you riding me, Jaeger. 
JAEGER Anytime you want to do something about it just let-- 
Epps stops dead in his tracks. 
EPPS Quiet! 
They all go quiet. Epps cocks an ear to the air and listens. They all listen.  Wind, but that's about it. 
JAEGER I don't hear any-- 
EPPS Shut up and listen! 
Again they listen.  Again they hear wind.  Then, there it is; the sound Epps is looking for:  A pop, like a big balloon being burst just over the next rise. 
WES Gunfire. 
Quick like that Jaeger grabs his M-16 down off his shoulder and is about to ready it when Epps slaps down the muzzle. 
EPPS Don't! 
JAEGER It's a fire fight. 
EPPS Single shots doesn't mean a fire fight. That's not a battle going on. 
WES What is it? 
Epps thinks.  Yeah, what the hell is it? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DESERT - RISE 
Epps, Jaeger, and Wes edge carefully up to the lip of the rise on their bellies.  They're barely visible against the sand.  Epps takes out a pair of binoculars and zeros in on the ground below. 
CUT TO: 
POV - EPPS 
THROUGH BINOCULAR LENSES we see a SHI'ITE CAMP:  A tent city really.  There are several uniformed IRAQI SOLDIERS who are roughing up the Shi'ite men. 
CUT TO: 
EPPS, WES, JAEGER 
JAEGER What is it? 
Epps hands the binoculars over to Jaeger.  Who looks down at the scene on the ground. 
EPPS Iraqis.  A bunch of them. 
JAEGER What are they doing here? 
Jaeger hands the binoculars to Wes. 
EPPS Well, it's Iraq.  I'm not sure, but I'm guessing that has something to do with them being here. 
JAEGER What are they doing in the middle of nowhere? 
WES Maybe they're looking for gold. 
CUT TO: 
POV - WES 
FADE TO: 
Our boys stop.  The pass has seemingly came to an end.  For a short ways the face of the mesa is almost sheer.  The three soldiers take it in. 
EPPS Not much of a pass. 
WES Probably was a couple of hundred years ago when whoever drew the map came through here.  Worn down to nothing now. 
EPPS Picks up again just on the other side. 
They all take a good look at what little there is to cross on, and how far down it is to the hard, jagged rocks below. 
JAEGER Think we can make it? 
WES We make it, or we go back empty handed. 
EPPS Looks like we make it. 
Epps and Wes edge their way towards what's left of the pass. Jaeger just stands there staring down.  Way down. 
FADE TO: 
Epps, Wes and Jaeger inch along the pass hugging the face of the mesa.  Small rocks churn beneath their feet and tumble to the ground below.  No man says a word, they're too busy trying to keep alive, and the air is filled with the sounds of labored breathing. 
Each step so very careful:  Testing the pass for purchase, making sure the footing is solid.  They inch one foot forward, then slide over the next.  Their hands probe the cliff face, fingers crawling like spider legs, looking for something, anything, to take hold of. 
Sweat drips into Epps eye.  He blinks hard and fast trying to clear his vision.  Right now he can't really afford distractions. 
Slowly, carefully, inch by inch the little death dance goes on. 
Jaeger steps.  He steps wrong.  The pass gives way under his foot and begins to slide down.  Instinctively Wes rockets out an arm grabbing Jaeger by the uniform.  At first Jaeger smiles, glad for the save.  But then he realizes something: Wes is literally holding his life in his hands.  All Wes has to do is loosen his grip, and... 
The color drains from Jaeger's face.  Wes stares back blank as a bowl of water. 
Eternity goes on for a second. 
Finally Wes yanks Jaeger back up against the mesa's face, then slides on.  Jaeger just hangs where he is for a beat clutching the rocks for dear life. 
FADE TO: 
Epps makes it to the far side of the broken pass.  He holds out a hand to Wes and reels him in.  Together they both help bring in Jaeger.  Wes looks back over the path they've just crossed. 
WES The US Army:  Always an adventure. 
EPPS Let me see the map. 
Jaeger hands the map to Epps who gives it a going over.  THEY WALK AS THEY TALK. 
EPPS(CONT) Should be easy going from here.  Stay on the pass straight to the dot. 
WES What do you figure it to be? 
EPPS Got to be some kind of landmark; something distinctive. 
JAEGER X marks the spot. 
EPPS Something like that. 
JAEGER But the white dot in the middle; that's got to mean something. 
EPPS I hope it means something, otherwise... 
WES Otherwise whatever we're looking for could be anywhere. 
EPPS Basically.  But the map has been pretty precise so far.  I don't think it'll be too hard to-- 
Our boys step past a grouping of rocks.  They stop dead. Sitting before them, in what looks like a small camp, is FIVE IRAQI SOLDIERS.  Time clicks by real slow for an instant. It's a delayed reaction, like the beat it takes after you pick up a hot pan before you realize that, yeah, it is burning the flesh from your hand. 
EPPS(CONT) Take cover! 
Our three soldiers turn and bolt back the way they came. They run like wild rabbits for a bit, jumping over a rock formation and hitting the deck using the rocks as cover. Like well-trained warriors they peel their weapons from their shoulders, lock and load, and stand ready.  They wait a bit, taking several deep breaths like divers about to go under. Finally Epps gives the order. 
EPPS(CONT) Let's hit 'em! 
Simultaneously they spring up from behind the rocks and bear down on the Iraqis with their M-16s ready to blow them to kingdom come. 
One problem:  No Iraqis. 
For a beat our three don't move.  They hold position, breath coming hard like sprinters at the end of a race.  They're eyes flint back and forth scanning for something...anything. There's nothing. 
EPPS(CONT) Cover me. 
M-16 still at the ready, Epps raises up taking a tactical stance.  He inches forward, sweeping his weapon back and forth before him for any potential target.  There is none. The Iraqis have vanished.  Epps lowers the M-16, but does not shoulder it. 
EPPS(CONT) Clear. 
Jaeger and Wes watch as, shielded by their bodies, Epps palms a grenade from his belt.  Wes and Jaeger don't quite smile, but they know now they at least have a chance.  As Epps stands the other two turn to face the Iraqis.  They all fold their hands behind their necks which, for Epps, hides the grenade from view.  Slowly they walk towards the gunship. One of the Iraqis starts to yell something.  He lifts his weapon and aims it at our boys.  With his thumb Epps yanks the pin from the grenade and lets fly.  It's a perfect toss, landing in the chopter's bay.  The Iraqis see the grenade land, they scramble for it.  One of them grabs it up and is about to throw it back out of the gunship. 
Too late. 
The grenade explodes in the Iraqi's hand killing him instantly.  It also touches off a fire ball that severely damages the gunship.  It rocks, lists, spins wildly out of control. 
EPPS(CONT) Get down! 
Our three hug the ground as the chopter's rotors go whipping through the air like throwing knifes landing perilously among them.  Worse still the gunship, now a lame bird, drops from the sky towards Epps, Jaeger and Wes.  All they can do is cover their heads, as if that would do any good against two tons of crashing steel.  The chopter rushes down...down, but it just misses them.  It slams into the ground skipping over the edge of the plateau, to the rocks below. 
Our three pick themselves up.  They walk to the edge of the plateau and look down on the crash. 
Jaeger, scared painted all over his face, sinks to his knees and looks as if he's about to go into shock. 
JAEGER Oh, God... 
Wes looks down at Jaeger with a bit of a disdainful sneer. 
WES Yeah.  Just keeps getting better and better, doesn't it? 
They stare for awhile, then one by one move off.  Us?  We: 
FADE TO: 
BLACK 
FADE TO: 
EXT. DESERT/MESA - LATER 
Epps, Wes and Jaeger trek to a large crevice that runs straight down into the ground.  Jaeger takes out his maps and photos.  Epps consults the navicom. 
WES What do you think? 
JAEGER Lines up with the map and the photos. 
EPPS We're right where we should be. 
Epps tucks the navicom away on his belt and takes a look around.  Not much to see. 
EPPS(CONT) I sure don't see much place else around here to hide anything. 
Wes pulls a lantern/flashlight from his pack.  Going to his belly he shines it down into the crevice. 
WES Can't see anything. 
He tosses a rock into it.  We can hear it hit the ground below. 
WES(CONT) It's got a bottom. 
JAEGER Guess we know what the next stop is. 
EPPS All right.  Let's break out some utility shovels, lanterns, and a claymore in case we have to do any blasting.  Me and Jaeger'll climb down, and see what we can see. 
WES What am I supposed to do? 
EPPS Got to have someone here in case we need help making it back up.  Doesn't hurt to have a look out either. 
JAEGER Think there might be more Iraqis? 
EPPS Right now I wouldn't be surprised if Eartha Kitt showed up singing Send In The Clowns. 
CUT TO: 
WE SEE A FEW QUICK SHOTS of Wes securing a line down into the crevice, Epps and Jaeger clipping on rapeling harnesses, the two men lowering themselves down into the great unknown. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CREVICES - CONTINUOUS 
The lantern punches a hole through the darkness as Epps uses it like a machete to blaze a trial.  He sinks down...down until finally they touch bottom.  He unclips himself from the rope and Jaeger starts down. 
The space isn't that big, like a small cave really.  It's tight enough that the lantern pretty well lights up the whole of it.  But it's big enough that one wouldn't have any idea where to start digging. 
Jaeger makes it to the bottom.  Wes yells down. 
WES You down? 
JAEGER Yeah, we're down. 
WES What do you see? 
EPPS Nothing. 
More to himself: 
EPPS You listen to me.  The whole reason we're here is because of you and that map of yours.  I didn't do all this for nothing, and I'm not leaving with nothing.  If you think for a second I'm giving up just 'cause you're too tired to turn over some dirt, then you don't know John Epps too well, do you?  So you dig, and you keep on digging 'til I say you don't have to dig anymore. 
Epps pushes Jaeger back and he goes down to the ground hard. A fire burns inside him.  A fire that burns out of control. Before he even knows what he's doing Jaeger springs to his feet, shovel in hand, bringing it down in a long arc for Epps' head. 
Epps bears him coming.  He deftly side steps the blow, grabs hold of Jaeger and forces him down.  They roll around violently like wild dogs trading blows and trying to work the other into a choke hold. 
CUT TO: 
WES 
He can hear the sounds of the struggle and yells down. 
WES What are you doing...?  What the hell are you doing down there? 
CUT TO: 
EPPS AND JAEGER 
They fight on; down and dirty.  Locked together they roll around the ground, each trying to get the upper hand.  They smash into the lantern, sending the cave into near darkness. At the same time Epps works himself on top of Jaeger.  He lands a couple of solid punches, takes a rock from the ground and lifts it high ready to send it crashing into Jaeger's skull.  All Jaeger can do is steel himself for the deathblow. 
Something catches Epps' eye:  A glint of light flashes across his faces.  He stares at it; at an opening, a bare seem really, in the side of the cave wall where light seeps through.  The rock slips from his hand.  Forgetting all about Jaeger Epps goes to the opening.  Jaeger himself, as if what just happened hadn't really happened, comes up along side Epps. 
JAEGER Must be a compartment. 
EPPS I feel air.  Probably opens up outside somewhere.  That's where the light comes from.  Couldn't see it with the lanternon. 
Jaeger says what they both must have guessed by now. 
JAEGER The white dot; light in the dark. 
That's all Epps needs to hear.  He starts clawing at the opening with his bare hands.  That gets him nothing. Grabbing up a shovel he starts to whack at it.  Jaeger gets the lantern working again, then picks up his shovel and joins in.  They keep hitting and hitting, picking up a rhythm like a southern chain gang. 
JAEGER (CONT) Maybe we should blast it loose with the claymore. 
EPPS It's giving. 
The rock gives way enough for Epps to pry it free.  There's just enough space for a man to reach his arm through.  For a beat Epps and Jaeger just stare at the opening almost afraid of what mayor may not be in there. 
With some trepidation Epps begins to move his hand towards the opening.  Slowly it extends closer...closer...  Just as it moves beyond the opening. vThere is a wild, screeching hiss as some small, hairy thing leaps for Epps. 
Both Epps and Jaeger recoil, Jaeger going nuts with fear. 
JAEGER Jesus Christ! 
Jaeger grabs up his M-16 and takes aim at...whatever it is. 
EPPS No, don't shoot! 
Too late. Jaeger squeezes off a few rounds.  A couple of bullets hit the thing, but the rest ricochet wildly about the cave and around Epps and Jaeger.  All the two men can do is duck and cover - squeezing themselves into tight, fetal balls - as the bullets scream back and forth like little chunks of random death. 
Eventually the bullets lose speed and die off.  Jaeger and Epps raise up off the ground.  They walk to the dead thing that jumped from the opening. 
EPPS It's just a mongoose. 
JAEGER Is it dead? 
EPPS Yeah, Bwana, you got it. 
CUT TO: 
WES 
Yelling down 
WES What the hell are you doing!? 
CUT TO: 
EPPS AND JAEGER 
JAEGER I think we found something. 
They go back to the opening.  Epps shines a light inside to make sure there are no more surprises, then reaches an arm in.  Jaeger looks on with great anticipation, licking his lips like a hungry jackal, as Epps twists his arm in the opening.  Searching...searching... 
Epps' face freezes.  He goes perfectly still for a beat, then slowly draws his hand from the opening.  It clutches a wooden box.  It is similar to Jaeger's puzzle box, but slightly bigger.  The instant Epps sets the box on the ground Jaeger smashes his shovel into it shattering the ancient wood.  From the splinters pours a river of gold coins.  Jaeger and Epps are too stunned to do anything but look at it. 
CUT TO: 
WES 
He leans over the crevice. 
WES What is it?  What'd you find? 
CUT TO: 
A tense moment passes. 
WES What are you doing?  You ready? 
Another moment, then: 
EPPS All right.  You go up, I'll send up the gold, then follow. 
JAEGER Yeah.  Yeah, that'll work. 
Jaeger goes over to the line and hooks himself on.  He's just about ready to climb up when Epps stops him.  Serious as a heart attack he says: 
EPPS If you're even thinking about leaving me down here, you better think again. 
Jaeger stares at Epps for a beat, then laughs himself a little laugh.  He yells up: 
JAEGER Wes, I'm coming up. 
Jaeger starts to climb as Wes helps out by pulling on the rope. 
Epps watches him for a bit, then looks at the pack of gold and the rest of the equipment.  Suddenly he scurries about gathering up all the things they've brought down. 
Jaeger continues his climb, disappearing up into the crevice. A few beats later the rope comes snaking back down from, above.  Epps brings over the pack of gold and attaches it to the rope.  Yelling up: 
EPPS Okay! 
The rope goes taught, slowly drawing the pack up, up into the crevice finally to be swallowed from view. 
Epps waits for the rope to come back down.  He waits.  He waits a beat more.  No rope. 
EPPS(CONT) Wes?  Jaeger? 
He tries to keep the apprehension from his voice, but it creeps in anyway.  He tries it again. 
EPPS(CONT) Jaeger? 
Still more nothing.  What's that sound?  It's Epps' breath getting heavier and faster. 
EPPS(CONT) Jaeger!? 
Nothing.  Then something.  The rope snakes its way back down. Epps can't help but let go of a little laugh, like a guy who's just been given a scare by his own shadow.  Taking up his own pack Epps hooks up, then starts the climb to the top. 
CUT TO: 
JAEGER AND WES 
They work the rope, helping Epps up.  He gets to the lip of the crevice, and pulls himself over.  He's breathing hard, and lets his pack slide to the ground.  Trying not to sound too rattled. 
EPPS What the hell took so long. 
JAEGER Just had to get the pack unhooked from the line.  It didn't seem that long. 
EPPS Not when you're up here with the gold, I guess not. 
Throwing Epps' own words back at him: 
WES Not losing trust, are you? 
Epps lets this go. 
EPPS It'll be too dark to make our way back now.  Let's bed down for the night and head out at first light. 
WES What about the gold? 
EPPS What about it? 
WES Maybe we should split it up now. 
EPPS We started this together, and we're staying together, so there's no point in splitting things up now. 
WES What if we get separated?  Way I see it if something happens I want to be carrying my share. 
JAEGER Wes might be right about that. 
EPPS It stays as it is.  We're halfway home now.  Let's not blow it by people getting ideas. 
WES You're the one with all the ideas. 
EPPS You've had your say, Wes.  Now leave it. 
WES Maybe you've got ideas of your own for the gold.  Maybe you've already got things worked out. 
EPPS Maybe I do. 
WES Maybe I don't need your ideas.  Maybe I can do better on my own. 
EPPS Why'd he come in our camp. 
Wes asks him the question in Arabic and gets an answer.  It's enough to give Wes a bit of a laugh. 
WES Says he wanted food.  Liar.  He wanted the gold. 
EPPS How's he going to want the gold?  He couldn't even know we had it. 
WES He...he could have been watching us. 
JAEGER Maybe we should give him some water. 
WES All last night he could have been-- 
JAEGER I think he wants something to drink. 
WES I'm not wasting my water on him. 
Jaeger gets his water and gives some to the soldier. 
WES(CONT) I don't care what he says, he wanted our gold.  Would have slit our throats if he had the chance. 
EPPS Doesn't matter.  Whatever he wanted he didn't get it.  We've got no need staying around here.  It's light enough.  Let's pack up and head out. 
Jaeger and Epps start to go for their gear.  Wes is still on the Iraqi soldier. 
WES What about him?  We...we have to do something. 
Epps gives an expression that screams:  What the hell are you talking about? 
WES(CONT) We can't just leave him.  He'll run back to his outfit, report our position... 
EPPS You said he was a deserter. 
WES That's what he says.  He could be a spy, or something. 
EPPS You don't know that. 
WES You don't know he isn't. 
JAEGER So we'll take him with us.  At least 'til we get back to the Hummer. 
WES He'd just slow us down, and drink our water.  And if we ran into any more Iraqis you know he'd sell us out. 
EPPS We don't leave him, we don't take him with us.  What does that leave? 
By way of answering Wes lifts his M-16 and works the action. 
EPPS(CONT) You're out of your mind. 
WES He's an enemy soldier. 
EPPS I'm not going to let you kill him. 
WES We're at war. 
The discussion starts to get real heated. 
EPPS We are not at war!  You and I and Jaeger are AWOL.  We have no authority-- 
WES He tried to kill us.  If not just now, then in the helicopter.  That's all the authority I need. 
Jaeger goes somewhere near panic. 
JAEGER We don't need to do this.  We got the gold, all right?  Let's just get out of here. 
The Iraqi may not speak the language, but he's got a pretty good idea what they are arguing about.  He starts to plead for his life 
WES I'm not going to leave him be just so he can stab us in the backs the minute we turn around.  I have been through too much to lose it all now just because the two of you don't have the stomach to do what has to be done. 
EPPS I've got no stomach for murder. 
WES It's a combat action. 
EPPS It's murder, and I won't be any part of it. 
WES Then step aside. 
EPPS No. 
WES Get out of my way. 
The Iraqis begging goes into over drive.  Jaeger just about loses it. 
JAEGER For Christ's sake, we don't need this. Let's just go.  Let's just...let's just get out of here. 
JAEGER They'll search the pack. 
Epps finds a mirror in one of his pockets.  He stands, ready to signal the chopter. 
JAEGER(CONT) They'll find the gold. 
Epps turns sharply back to Jaeger. 
EPPS We're lost, you understand that?  We've got no navicom, and no means to find a way back.  So right now I don't give a damn about the gold because if we don't get off this desert, and out of Iraqi all it's going to be good for is buying us tombstones. 
Epps is back around ready to signal the helicopter.  He's about to raise the mirror when he hears the sound of an M-16 action being worked.  Epps turns to face Jaeger. 
JAEGER I can't do it, Epps.  Not when we're so close.  I can't let you ruin everything. 
Epps just stares at Jaeger, not frightened, but surprisingly calm. 
EPPS First Wes, now you? 
JAEGER I'm not like Wes.  Wes was crazy. 
EPPS (Sarcastic) And you; you've got it all together. 
JAEGER I don't want it this way.  I wouldn't kill you just to kill you, but I can't let you lose the gold for me.  Not when we're so close. 
EPPS That helicopter passes, and the only thing we're close to is death. 
Jaeger is unfazed.  Very politely he says: 
JAEGER Sit down, Epps. 
Epps takes him up on the offer.  What choice does he have? THE CAMERA STAYS TIGHT ON THE TWO MEN.  They don't talk. They don't move.  They just sit as WE HEAR THE SOUND OF THE HELICOPTER GETTING CLOSER AND LOUDER.  IT REACHES A CRESCENOO, THEN BEGINS TO FADE UNTIL IT DISAPPEARS.  The chopter is gone, along with Epps and Jaeger's best chance of getting out of the desert alive. 
Jaeger lowers his rifle.  Very genuinely he says: 
JAEGER(CONT) I'm sorry about that, Epps. 
EPPS Is it all right if I stand up? 
Like he didn't know he was keeping Epps from something. 
JAEGER Oh, yeah.  Go ahead. 
Epps stands.  He looks around trying to figure things out. Not much to figure.  There still in the middle of a desert in a hostile country same as they ever were. 
JAEGER(CONT) I'm glad I didn't have to kill you.  I'm glad it didn't come to that. 
EPPS Yeah.  Well, me too. 
JAEGER I never killed anybody before.  I talk a good game, but I'm not like that. 
EPPS Sure. 
JAEGER Really, I'm not.  Remember how I was talking I wanted to blow away all those Iraqis?  That's all it was was talk.  I was scared out of my mind to go to war. I still haven't gotten over stepping on that land mine. 
EPPS You still got a map on you? 
JAEGER What?  Yeah. 
Jaeger takes out the maps he has and hands them to Epps. Epps looks them over, then looks over the terrain.  Without any landmarks or navigating tools the maps might as well be finger paintings. 
JAEGER(CONT) Epps? 
EPPS Yeah. 
JAEGER I don't want to die. 
EPPS Makes two of us. 
JAEGER I know what I did just now was crazy, but you got to understand how much I want that gold. 
EPPS It's all right.  I don't like it, but it's over now. 
JAEGER I never had anything before, Epps.  I never was anybody.  Not the kind of somebody you can be with a pocket full of gold coins.  When I was in high school I used to-- 
Fed up with Jaeger Epps turns on him hard. 
EPPS Hey, you know what?  Can I be honest with you?  Right now I'm not all that interested in how you're messed up 'cause you didn't get the bicycle you wanted for your thirteenth birthday.  What I'm interested in is how I can keep from getting dead.  And listening to sob stories from some           about how the system wasn't good to him because he had to work like everybody else instead of being born a Kennedy doesn't do a damn thing to help keep me alive.  So do me a favor; either shut up, or...just shut up. 
Jaeger isn't sure what to say. 
JAEGER Sorry. 
EPPS Damn. 
Epps sits down in the sand, all out of ideas.  There's a long quiet before Jaeger says: 
Epps heads for the shack doing double time.  Jaeger puts the pack back on and races to catch up. 
EPPS(CONT} They've got to have water.  We'll get same water, some directions, maybe they even have a vehicle. 
JAEGER Epps. 
EPPS We can head back for our lines, and they don't even have to know about the gold. 
JAEGER Epps.  What if they're not Saudi. 
Epps stops dead, now not more than one hundred meters from the shack. 
JAEGER(CONT) If it's a checkpoint, it could be Iraqi. 
Epps considers this. 
EPPS We've got no cboice.  Either way, we've got no choice. 
Epps and Jaeger keep on for the shack walking with apprehension now instead of running.  Epps stops less than fifty meters away. 
JAEGER Well? 
EPPS Well, we should identify ourselves. 
JAEGER Yeah, I guess we should. 
Epps takes in a deep breath ready to yell to the shack. Instead he turns to Jaeger. 
EPPS Even if they are Iraqis probably all they'll do is take us prisoner for awhile.  Got to figure we're still kicking their asses in the war.  They don't want any trouble. 
JAEGER Hell, they'll probably just surrender to us.  Probably. 
Again Epps takes a deep breath.  And again just as he's about to cry out he turns to Jaeger. 
EPPS That's if the war is even still going on. Way things were shaping up it's probably long over. 
JAEGER Probably. 
Epps takes a beat, then sucks in a breath.  He yells for the shack: 
EPPS Hellooooo-- 
Before Epps can even finish getting the word out machine gun fire erupts from the house and burns towards Epps and Jaeger. They dive for cover, hugging the ground as bullets whistle and ping through the space around them.  They are forced back and down against a narrow stretch of rock, but it offers little protection and is chipped away by the hot lead.  It's just a matter of moments before nothing stands before them and death.  At the top of his lungs Jaeger starts yelling: 
JAEGER Ashra Ka mahari dahra sahib!  Ashra Ka mahari dahra sahib! 
Just as quickly as it began the shooting stops.  From the shack we hear some chatter in Arabic, then the door opens.  A few MEN appear in the doorway.  They laugh and beckon for Epps and Jaeger to join them. 
EPPS What did you say? 
JAEGER I don't know.  Something Wes had taught me.  I think it means "Don't shoot. We're your friends." 
EPPS They must be Saudis.  It's a Saudi checkpoint.  Oh sweet, Jesus.  Come on. Come on! 
Epps hurriedly stumbles in the dark for the shack.  Jaeger is just steps behind him. 
They enter the dimly lit shack to the good nature of the FOUR men inside.  Epps and Jaeger see a fire in an open hearth and go right to it to warm their bands as the four men go on chattering behind them. 
JAGER Oh, man, this is good.  What do you think the chances are they've got a whirlpool in this place? 
As they rub their hands together Epps looks up.  He freezes. Hanging on the wall is a very handsome, nicely framed portrait of Saddam Hussein.  Epps nudges Jaeger who also looks up.  He also freezes. 
JAEGER(CONT) Oh, God... 
EPPS They must have thought we were Iraqi when you yelled to them.  They couldn't tell in the dark. 
JAEGER What are we going to do? 
Epps thinks.  What are they going to do? 
EPPS Slip out your M-16. 
JAEGER And then what? 
EPPS And then shoot them. 
JAEGER I...I never killed anyone before.  I told you that. 
EPPS Well, you're going to start with a bang, 'cause you've got four of them to take down. 
Behind Epps and Jaeger one of the Iraqis asks a question of them in Arabic. 
JAEGER Can't you-- 
EPPS I don't have a weapon. 
Epps breaks into a run.  Jaeger is only steps behind him. 
Like something out of an old John Ford western dozens of mounted Arabs suddenly appear over a dune.  They ride fast and hard for Epps and Jaeger like Apaches heading for a wagon train.  They easily overtake our two, momentarily swallowing them amongst the thundering hoofs, and ride on a bit as if playing with them. 
Epps and Jaeger stop, then bolt in the other direction.  The Arabs ride back, again past Epps and Jaeger swiping them to the ground; the horses kicking up a spray of lose sand over them.  It looks like a cattle round up, and our two are the cattle. 
Epps and Jaeger get up to make another run of it, and again the Arabs bear down on them.  This time they mean business. They completely surround them, cutting off all means of escape.  The Arabs start screaming something back and forth in Arabic.  We don't know what, but it sounds unpleasant. 
Epps and Jaeger come skidding to a halt.  They turn in their tracks digging in the scene.  It goes like this:  They are completely outnumbered and out gunned by a mounted force. Doesn't get any simpler. 
Epps and Jaeger drop their weapons.  Their hands go in the air. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. SHI'ITE CAMP - LATER 
The mounted Arabs lead Epps and Jaeger, hands tied before them and almost literally being towed by the horses, into their camp.  It is similar to the Shi'ite camps we've seen before with several tent dwellings. 
As the party enters groups of Shi'ites come over to stare at Epps and Jaeger.  They chatter amongst themselves, but our boys have no idea what they're talking about, and that just makes things all the scarier. 
From our boy's point of view this is all like an unending nightmare:  Being dragged along through a desert, not knowing the language, not knowing what's going to happen.  Their world skews and slides as if they were on a tilt-a-whirl. 
Finally they reach a tent.  One of the Arabs tosses Epps and Jaeger's packs on the ground just before it.  Another cuts them loose and SHOVES THEM INSIDE THE TENT, then yells something at them in Arabic.  He leaves, and our two are alone. 
JAEGER What do you make of them? 
EPPS Shi'ites, I think. 
JAEGER Is that good, or bad? 
EPPS I don't know.  They killed Wes. 
JAEGER Why haven't they killed us!? 
EPPS I don't know! 
JAEGER ...Maybe...maybe we can fight our way out. 
EPPS With what?  Against how many? 
JAEGER We can't just sit here waiting to die. 
EPPS You come up with a better plan, let me know. 
JAEGER Maybe...maybe if we traded them the gold. If we gave it to them they might let us live; they might not kill us. 
From O.C. we hear a voice: 
VOICE(O.C.) I always knew you were a bitch. 
Epps and Jaeger's hearts seize up and stop.  It's as if they've heard the voice of a ghost, and they have.  IT'S WES! He carries with him the pack of gold.  Epps can barely get his name out. 
EPPS ...Wes...? 
JAEGER You were shot.  We were standing right there, you were shot! 
WES In the flack jacket.  Still like getting hit in the back with a baseball bat. Took the air right out of me, but I was just unconscious for awhile.  'Course, you didn't stick around to find that out. You left me for dead. 
EPPS We thought-- 
Like a guy who just took two steps over the edge: 
WES YOU LEFT ME FOR DEAD! 
Ohhh, shit.  Somebody's crazy.  Epps gets the feeling there's not going to be much dialog going on here.  Wes gets real calm again, which is almost as scary as him acting nuts. 
WES(CONT) When my Shi'ite friends saw that they had shot an American they were very apologetic.  Turns out we've been kicking ass in this little war.  They figure we've finally gotten Saddam off their backs.  They brought me to their camp, cleaned me up, fed me... I'm their new best buddy.  America number one, Joe. But there's something the Shi'ites can't figure out:  They can't figure out why my two buddies, two fellow Americans, left me out in the desert.  They can't seem to figure out what those same two guys were doing in an Iraqi outpost.  It's almost as if they were Iraqi spies, or something.  And I've got to tell you they hate anything that's got to do with the Iraqis.  See how I mean? 
JAEGER We had to take shelter in the checkpoint. Jesus, Wes, I killed the Iraqis in there. 
WES You actually got around to killing someone.  I'm impressed.  I guess you're only half a bitch. 
EPPS Wes, we thought you were dead, and we thought we were next.  Hanging around to get killed wouldn't have done anyone any good. 
WES Sure, and I guess it was just convenient there was one less person to split the gold with. 
EPPS Wes-- 
WES Look, I know you guys are telling the truth.  It's just the Shi'ites don't know that.  I guess you could tell them...but then you don't speak the language do you? 
Wes gets right up into Jaeger's face. 
WES{CONT) Do you!? 
Of course Wes knows they don't.  He allows himself a very sweet, shit eating grin. 
JAEGER What? 
EPPS I'd go to Australia.  Lot of land, not many people.  I think after this I'd like to quit people for awhile.  And the girls go crazy for brothers down there. 
JAEGER Really? 
EPPS That's what I hear.  Don't matter.  Girls go crazy everywhere for a man with gold. 
From the distance we hear the faint sound of a car motor.  It draws closer and closer. 
Epps and Jaeger stand.  Knowing they're so close to the end of a long adventure they become very business like. 
JAEGER Well, this is it.  We get the car, find some Americans.  We find Americans we'll be all right. 
EPPS We'll make up some kind of lie.  They won't find the gold. 
Epps and Jaeger just stand staring at each other as the car draws closer. 
JAEGER Okay.  See you in a minute. 
Jaeger goes out and lays in the car's path.  Epps goes to hide behind some rocks. 
The car keeps getting closer and closer. 
Jaeger yells over to Epps. 
JAEGER(CONT) Epps, I don't think he's slowing down. 
EPPS He'll slow down. 
The car gets closer. 
JAEGER He's not slowing. 
EPPS He's going to slow down. 
The car gets closer. 
JAEGER Epps...Epps! 
The car barrels right for Jaeger.  Forget what Epps says, it's not slowing down and Jaeger knows it. 
JAEGER(CONT) Aw, damn! 
At the last possible second Jaeger rolls out of the way.  The car doesn't slow, tearing across the stretch of road where Jaeger lay, but swerves to avoid him.  The DRIVER loses control for a few seconds and is forced to skid to a halt. 
Epps runs to the car, rips open the driver's door, and presses the muzzle of an assault weapon to his head. 
EPPS You speak English?  DO YOU SPEAK ENGLISH!? 
DRIVER (Frightened) Y-yes. 
Jaeger runs over and jumps in the car.  Epps gets in behind the driver, keeping the gun pressed to his head. 
EPPS Where were you going? 
DRIVER Baghdad. 
EPPS What's in the other direction? 
DRIVER This road, it leads straight to Kuwait. 
EPPS Turn the car around. 
DRIVER Please, I beg of you.  The American army is there.  I am Iraqi.  They will kill me. 
EPPS Nobody's going to hurt you. 
Epps takes a gold coin from his back and gives it to the driver. 
EPPS(CONT) You see that?  Gold.  You take us to the Americans, and we'll give you another one.  Now drive. 
The driver turns around the car and starts back in the direction he came. 
They drive on for awhile, mostly in silence.  Epps and Jaeger are too anxious to have this all over to say much, and the driver is too scared.  Finally the driver starts to talk. 
DRIVER You are Americans, yes? 
Neither Jaeger or Epps answer. 
DRIVER(CONT) We didn't not all want this war, do you know?  We didn't not all want to invade our brothers and sisters in Kuwait.  Now your army crushes us.  So few days, and so many have died.  And many fear we will all die.  Please tell this to your people:  We did not want this war. 
Still Jaeger and Epps say nothing.  Outside the car the traffic flowing in the opposite direction gradually gets thicker and thicker. 
DRIVER(CONT) I have a brother in our army.  When I take you back, will you look for him?  If he is still alive, will you look for him and take care of him? 
