THUNDERHEART 
Written by 
John Fusco 
Fourth draft 
Oct. 5, 1990 
A DRUM. Beating slow. And deep. Like a heart. 
FADE IN: 
EXT. THE GREAT PLAINS SOUTH DAKOTA - DAWN 
Something is rising from the Black Hills. A sphere of light, too red to be the sun. A sphere of contained fire, undulating in crimson and ochre, and rising slowly, majestically, to the pulse. To the DRUM. It is the sun. But it is a Paha Sapa sunrise. A Black Hills sunrise. And it is spectacular. 
The DRUM, pounds deeper, bigger, as the sun gets higher. Stronger. Igniting a vast landscape of gentle slopes and foothills; throwing shadows on the plains that look like, as the Indians say, an old man dancing. The grass is golden. And high. The wind moves through it, snakes through it. Slowly. 
BEGIN CREDITS. 
Voices; a TRADITIONAL INDIAN SONG (Lakota), summoning Wakan Tanka - The Great Mystery. 
And now, rising up over one of the small land waves, a head comes into view. Shoulders. A man, running in ghostly SLOW MOTION, his long black hair trailing in the wind. The INDIAN MAN wears only buckskin pants and a bone choker around his neck. 
Legs and arms churning, the man runs with antelope grace, backlit by the sunrise, bounding toward us. Running... his heart pounding. SONG RISING... DRUM POUNDING... FIVE MORE VOICES in high-pitched tremolo join the song. 
And then the runner soars, like an eagle from a bluff, airborne, flying over a small dip, arms outstretched, and it would be a wondrous thing if there were not a fine, crimson, mist all around him and if slow motion was not suddenly overtaken by LIVE SPEED, revealing the brutal force of gunfire which has slammed the Indian into the air, throwing him. Slamming him hard into the grass. And it is over as quickly and violently as a deer shot dead. 
LAKOTA SONG ends abruptly. 
LONG SHOT - THE GREAT PLAINS 
the sun burns like lava at the horizon. DRUM beats like a heart. And Somewhere off in a distant cottonwood, an OWL. Then Silence. Deep, disturbing stillness. 
EXT. CAPITAL BELTWAY - WASHINGTON. D.C - DAY 
ROCK N'ROLL shatters the silence. 
Cars -- a multicolored metallic criss-cross reflecting off a building made of mirrors -- races past an electronic billboard that blinks in red skyhigh digital: PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE. 7:59. 73 degrees. 
The D.C. Superhighway. And off behind it, in the distance, Capital Hill holds imposing vigil, the massive cast iron dome of The Capital, catching the sun. But everything is soon smothered by a METRO BUS, hogging the far lane of the Beltway, leaning on its HORN. 
Good morning. 
And the rock n'roll is everybody's radio, everybody's tempo. 
CARBON MONOXIDE WAVE 
shimmers across the beltway hugging then releasing a solitary vehicle that we stay with... move with... A black Nissan 240 SX, hard-waxed. 
INT. 240 SX - TRAVELING 
Behind the wheel -- an intense young man with close-cropped black hair, eyes hidden by sunglasses. Whatever he does for a living, he does in a suit (not expensive but well-fit. But we might also note that any extra suit cash has gone instead into the silver-plated watch on his left wrist). Lean as a rake, sallow in the cheeks, there is something insatiable about him -- a hungry energy that won't let him go. 
RAY LEVOI, late 20's, early 30's, pulls out of a threatening traffic jam and races on the narrow right between thirty cars and a cement girder. 
EXT. T STREET - OUTSIDE WEST-CENTRAL 
The black SX has jumped off an exit and has entered the light- industrial section of Washington. It pulls up near a loading dock behind an old gray building and several parked cars and vans. Ray steps out, smooths his jacket, locks and SETS HIS CAR ALARM. 
Another young man -- chubby, clean-shaven; in a nicer suit than Ray's -- steps out from a parked Miata, and approaches Ray. CARL PODJWICK balances a coffee, a U.S.A. Today and a black eel-skin briefcase. 
CARL Hey. 
RAY Hey. Nice tie. 
CARL Don't get too attached. 
They start walking briskly toward the loading dock. 
RAY Ya got the paper? 
They mount steps. 
CARL Yeah. 
RAY You're my hero, Carl. 
CARL Heroes ain't supposed to shake. I'm shakin', man, look at me. 
RAY Breathe, Carl. Four, nice, deep ones. 
They stop at the door of a service elevator and Carl breathes. Expanding his chest, exhaling. Ray adjusts Carl's tie for him, his collar. He speaks quietly. Quickly. 
8x10 BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOS dealt like cards onto a table, one on top of another. 
1 -- an aerial shot of some wasteland. 
2 -- a closer bird's eye of the same, what looks like a NASA photo of Mars. 
3 -- a vast expanse of the Great Plains. 
ROBERT F. TULLY, Number-Two-in-Command, deals a fourth photo onto the table. He is an understated, fatherly man, well- manicured in cotton pencil-striped shirt, white-tab collar and tie. The photos and maps and files a foot deep on the huge table are neatly organized. 
INTERCOM SA Levoi, Sir. 
TULLY Please. 
Seated, at the far end of the table, engrossed in the deep spread of information, SA (Special Agent) FRANK COUTURE is about to break the record for longest single ash on the end of a cigarette and the smoke forces his eyes into tight, concentrating, slits. "COOCH" as they call him in the Bureau has seen thirty years in some rough "provinces". He has survived the Hoover era and is a legend in the Sessions era but survival has honed an edge. An edge with a touch of ironic cop humor. 
Ray enters, walks into a firm shake. 
TULLY Ray... 
RAY Mister Tully. 
TULLY Do you want a coffee? 
RAY No. No, no. Thank you. 
Ray sits nervously across from Cooch who looks up from the photos and studies the younger man through reading glasses and cigarette smoke, and he looks at him like he doesn't know who the hell he is or why he's sitting there. 
TULLY Levoi, Cooch. Raymond Levoi, Criminal Division. 
COOCH Oh, yeah -- right. 
Cooch sticks his cigarette in his left hand, shakes with his right. 
TULLY Ray this is -- 
RAY / TULLY Frank Couture. 
TULLY That's right. 
COUTURE Hello, Ray. 
The handshake is still locked. Cooch is still squinting at the younger agent. Ray obviously knows something about Agent Couture. 
RAY It's an honor. 
Tully leans back in his chair, crosses his legs casually. 
TULLY Ray, we're taking you off the street. We need you out in South Dakota. 
Ray's enthusiasm suddenly deflates. 
RAY South Dakota... (confused) Did I do something unsatisfactory, Sir? 
COOCH No, Ray. You're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother. 
Ray looks completely baffled now, swinging a look from Cooch to Tully. 
TULLY Interesting bloodline you have, Ray. (scanning file) French, Scots-Irish, Italian, ...and one-eighth American Indian. 
COOCH Sioux Indian, right? 
RAY I'm not that sure. Yeah, I think -- 
TULLY -- yes, Teton Sioux. Father's side. 
Ray nods, looks from Tully to Cooch. What's going on here? 
TULLY Ray, there's been a homicide out in an area known as The Badlands. Indian Reservation. 
COOCH It's not the first. There's been several. And our field office in Rapid City is getting a lot of heat... none of the investigations have turned up jack shit. 
TULLY The main problem is, Ray, these people are extremely distrustful of outsiders, non-Indians. Relations have not been amicable. 
COOCH Different culture. Hard to penetrate. The Indians don't like white cops poking around. And that's why we're in a position where we have to bring in an American Indian agent. 
Tully straightens the edges of a bureau memorandum. 
TULLY With an Indian representative out there, we hope to keep hostilities dormant; this is a COINTELPRO, Selective Operations Unit, and it'll be easier on Agent Couture if you can gain the people's trust and maybe -- 
RAY Woh, excuse me, Sir... I see what you're saying... I've got a little Indian blood, that's true. But -- (laughing) I am not an... an Indian. I can't just go in and -- 
TULLY -- your father was part Sioux. 
A beat. Ray lowers his eyes to the photos. 
A DEAD BODY 
lying face down in the rainbow sand. Dried blood and horse flies cover his blown out torso. The agents stand over him, breathless from the rugged walk. 
COOCH Who found him? 
MILES Indian kids. Hunting fossils. 
Cooch studies the body from where he stands. Sherman hands a file over to Ray. 
COOCH Okay. I think Agent Levoi and I can proceed from here. What are your call signals? 
SHERMAN PX-10 and 11. Anything we can do to help you out, just radio. 
COOCH Good. Thanks, Guys. 
The agents start back through the Badlands. Ray is already squatting a safe distance from the body, covering his nose with a kerchief while looking in the file. 
Cooch takes a bended knee on the other side of the body. Flies buzz on and around the corpse. 
RAY Leo Fast Elk... Thirty seven... single... Member of the Tribal Council. 
Cooch makes a note then slowly circles the body. He holds a hand out to Ray and the younger agent turns the file over. 
COOCH Looks like Fast Elk wasn't fast enough to outrun that load. What do you make of the damage? 
Ray gets closer, swats at Flies with the folder. 
RAY Six rounds. 357. 
COOCH That's what it looks like, doesn't it? But that's what a ten gauge, choke-bored, shotgun will look like when it hits your lower back from five feet away. 
Ray looks up impressed. Cooch rises and walks off gingerly, scanning the surroundings. 
RAY Somebody was serious about doing this guy, that's for sure. 
COOCH Ray. 
Cooch is standing ten feet away, staring at the ground. Ray walks over, carefully. He follows Cooch's frown down at the twisted layers of earth. 
ON THE GROUND 
a circle has been etched deep in the soft gumbo, and in the center of the circle, a white eagle plume sticks straight up, dancing in the wind. 
Cooch and Ray each lower themselves to their haunches to study the strange sight. Cooch puts his reading glasses on, stares at it. Then lights a cigarette. 
Ray hefts up a camera and begins CLICKING off shots. He starts moving around it, taking shots at different angles. And then the sound of a DISTANT MOTOR draws both agent's attention. 
POV: 
way out in the bizarre moonscape of eroded rock and earth, a lone figure on a motorcycle bounces and grinds, born out of a silvery heat mirage. It's fifty yards off but heading straight for us. The HEARTBEAT DRUM. 
REVERSE - RAY AND COOCH try to make the figure out. 
IN THE BADLANDS 
the archaic mud-caked Harley chugs and stalls, spits and choices, and begins an incredible drive straight up the steep side of this natural wonder. At the throttle is an imposing figure. 
WALTER CROW HORSE is a portly Indian in his late-thirties with a black reservation hat worn low over a face that seems to have been cast from a bust of Sitting Bull. Sitting Bull with aviator shades. Denim jacket over checkered shirt. Faded jeans. Well broken duct-taped boots. His hair is worn long in tight duel braids. 
The rusted bike bajas up and down slopes, finally stalling out, twenty feet or so from the murder site. Crow Horse swings his bulk off the bike like dismounting a horse. He looks around suspiciously then pulls a rolled-up blanket from the carrier rack. 
LEO LITTLE SKY 
lies in death. Crow Horse's boots move in stealthily, creaking like saddle leather. 
He squats and looks at the corpse... then looks around with animal alertness. He reaches into the front pocket of his jacket and pulls out some Bull Durham tobacco. He pinches some and offers it to the four directions around the body. 
He then unrolls the blanket, begins to move the dead man... sense something and wheels to see Cooch standing behind him, one hand behind his back where his gun must be, and the other hand holding up open wallet. The sun hits his badge. 
COOCH Good morning. 
Crow Horse hawks his eyes onto a big rock, a full second before Ray steps out, his .45 drawn but held at ease. 
Crow Horse slowly raises his arms as Ray moves up to him, studying him. 
COOCH Taking ol' Leo somewhere? 
CROW HORSE Leo's been out here too long, man. I'm taking him to ceremonial burial. 
RAY This is a restricted area. 
COOCH Check him out, Ray. 
Ray frisks the Indian, finds an old leather wallet, and then a gun. A .38. 
COOCH The only good Indian is a dead Indian, does that old adage still hold true out here? 
Cooch laughs good-naturedly. Ray smiles. But Brooks looks offended. 
BROOKS That set-to you saw out front, was nothin' more than a message we were sendin' to the sonsabitches that are divertin' water from the river. 
DENNIS We got rights. We got a ranch just up here. 
Ray catches this. Glances a look off Cooch who works on a cold draught beer. 
RAY Did any of you gentlemen know Leo Fast Elk? 
Both men shake their heads. Get quiet. 
BROOKS You fellas are here to investigate a Indian crime, you should keep to Indian land, and talk to them, not us. But you wanna drink here and shoot stick here, that's your right, and we respect that. (to Dennis) Come on, Son, we're up on the table. 
DENNIS You fellas wanna play doubles? 
Cooch shakes his head, distracted, and the two locals leave, enroute for the pool table. Ray watches them go, curious. 
EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - NIGHT 
Ray and Cooch, cross the street back to the motel. It is black and chillingly still. 
RAY Water. Worth killing for out here, I'd think. 
COOCH Get the plate numbers off everyone of these cars. 
RAY I already did. 
Cooch looks at Ray, impressed. 
RAY Couldn't sleep. 
COOCH Good. 
They stop in front of their rooms and Cooch pulls a small tape recorder from his waistband. A micro-cassette recorder that he examines in the dim door light. 
RECORDER (locals) -- out here we got our Indians. And that's the way it is. 
Cooch shuts it off. 
COOCH By the time you get to the main village, sun'll be up. I want you to fraternize. Socialize. Penetrate. Infiltrate. Eat some raw kidney, and get these Indians talking. I'm gonna Powwow with Big Chief Clear Moon and find out more about Leo. 
He hands Ray the recorder. 
RAY Done. 
Cooch starts for his room but in a long, exaggerated country step as he breaks into the HANK WILLIAMS tune that has all but driven him insane inside the joint. Ray watches him go, and cracks a laugh. 
INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING - SUNRISE 
Ray's at the wheel, looks intense as he studies the vast expanse of slopes and rock formations and the rising sphere of flame that lights the road in strange color. He is reading a name list that he traps against the wheel. 
RAY Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks- Dreamer. (a dry run) Hello, I'm looking for Hobert Standing- Buffalo-That-Walks... Dreamer. 
Ray pulls up a long dirt drive and parks. 
EXT. OLD TRAILER - ACROSS FROM BADLANDS – SUNRISE 
Ray walks to the front door of a war-torn trailer that is halfway swallowed by weeds and plants. It is static out here. Dead still. Ray approaches the front door. There is a huge hole in it. He knocks above the hole. 
After a moment, the door opens a crack. A dark, weather-beaten face barely shows. 
RAY Good morning. I'm looking for Hobert- Buffalo-Dreaming... (cheat sheet) Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks-- 
The door closes. Locks. 
RAY --Dreamer. 
Ray stands there for a moment then lowers himself to look through the huge hole in the door. 
RAY Sir? 
A tattered chair is pushed against the door, covering the hole. Ray stands up, turns on the steps. And before he can let out a flustered sigh, he spots something across the dirt road. Something that makes him remove his shades, look again. Whatever it is, it doesn't make him happy, and he is hurrying across the road. 
EXT. BADLANDS - DAY 
A motorcycle, parked between the road and the badlands. We've seen the ancient bike before. Ray walks past it, looking at it. 
He pushes his shades up on the bridge of his nose and looks down into the moonscape. 
Walter Crow Horse is down there, on his haunches, "feel tracking", laying his fingers inside tracks and reading them. He doesn't even look up at the sound of the FBI agent's footsteps. 
CROW HORSE Ray Little Weasel. FBI. I like the way ya sneaked up on me. Must be Indian. 
EXT MAISY BLUE LEGS HOUSE – BLACK TAIL DISTRICT - DAY 
A trailer sits off from the river in beaten solitude. There are two junked cars and one burned black. 
Wind blows across deep bald tire tracks. Ray walks slowly beside them, surveying, following them to a place where they become puckers and skids next to a dilapidated outhouse. There is a shotgun blast in the side of it. Ray studies it, enters the outhouse. Exits, and walks the rutted gumbo earth to where it meets rolling hills of golden grass. He stands here, mesmerized. 
CHICKENS scratch around in the dirt. 
Like so many far-off res homesteads, this is a haunting place. Made more so by a persistent SQUEAKING, a rusty, metallic squeal coming from -- 
A WATER PUMP 
across the yard, where MAISY BLUE LEGS, a Sioux elder, works the handle. She wears thick bifocals and keeps her hair under a bandanna. No water comes forth from the pump, and she tries again and again until she breaks a sweat. And then she sees the waal'cu standing out there. 
Urgently, she turns and starts back to her trailer with an empty coffee can. 
Ray starts after her. 
RAY Mrs... Blue Legs? Can I ask you a few questions -- 
MAISY (1/3 res speed) -- go away. Leave us alone... 
RAY Ma'am, Please -- 
She mounts the metal steps. Ray is losing her. He gets a foot on the bottom step, and attempts something he does not want to do. 
RAY Mrs. Blue Legs. I'm Indian. 
Halfway through the screendoor, Maisy turns and looks at the young man in suit and shades. 
RAY I'm Sioux. 
Maisy lowers her bifocals, studies him. Then walks in, slaps the door shut, and locks it. A towel hung as a shade folds down. 
Ray lingers at the bottom of the steps. 
RAY Yeah, right. 
And he walks around the side of the trailer, looking at the ground. In the gaping space between the trailer blocks, and the grass, there is much junk stored, and Ray kneels to look. He is drawn to a pair of cowboy boots, caked with dried mud. He picks up a boot, looks at the sole, then touches the mud. His fingers break through the hardened crust and come back moist and blue. He looks at this sniffs it. There is a tense, water-torture like tempo coming from the old pump where water barely drips onto a hub cap in the dirt. Ray sets the boot down. Goes to grab the other boot and -- 
a WESTERN DIAMOND BACK RATTLER coils out from the shade of the boot, RATTLING and HISSING from white mouth and three- inch fangs, and Ray has done a backflip and roll, slapping his shoulder holster and pulling lead and BLAM! BLAAAM! he unloads two, and the reptile is so dead, there's not even enough snake left to make a truck-stop key chain. 
He kneels there, flushed in the face, holding his breath and double-clutching his gun. The SHOTS ECHO through the Badlands like the aftermath of dynamite. From inside the trailer, he can hear CRYING. A low moaning. Praying softly. 
RAY Shit. Mrs. Blue Legs! It's okay! 
Then his RADIO CRACKS IN. 
RADIO (COOCH) X21, give me a 20. 
RAY (yelling) Black Tail District, X22. You ready for this? Leo wasn't killed in the Badlands. I... I found the location. 
COOCH Maisy Blue Legs place? 
RAY How'd you know? 
COOCH I got one up on ya. 
RAY Go ahead. 
COOCH I've got the doer. I know who he is. 
Ray looks relieved. 
COOCH Meet me at base. Over. 
RAY Cooch. You're my hero. 
Ray looks down at the dead snake, still rushed from it, and he hurries out of there. 
IN THE SHADE OF THE TRAILER 
the snake's RATTLE moves spasmodically, still kicking with reflex. 
EXT. LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - BEAR CREEK RES - NIGHT 
CLOSE ON an AMERICAN FLAG, flapping in the hot night wind. But something is wrong about the image. The flag is hung upside lit by -- 
A full moon that also illuminates an overgrown field that fronts a small, one-level house where the flag hangs. Three old cars decorate the front yard. A busted screendoor creaks in the wind, and somewhere off in the hills, a DOG BARKS away his boredom. 
COOCH (O.S.) Jimmy Looks Twice. 
INT. LE BARON 
SA Couture and SA Levoi sit inside the car, staking out this little place far down a dirt road on the outskirts of the settlement. 
The archaic figure just looks through him. Starts to walk away. Ray takes his thin arm. He locks eyes with the old man. Slowly, he obeys, raising his hands and laying them on his head. 
From the lodge, the last man emerges. It's Crazy Horse reborn out of the burning sage. JIMMY LOOKS TWICE is in his mid- thirties -- big, well over two-hundred pounds. But lean. His braids fall nearly to his hips. His face is handsome but at the moment, twisted in a full-blood's scowl. 
LOOKS TWICE (outraged) What are you doing? 
COOCH James Looks Twice? 
LOOKS TWICE That's right. What are you doing here? This is a religious ceremony you're desecrating. 
Looks Twice shoots hawk-like black eyes onto Ray. 
RAY We're FBI, James. We just need to ask you a few questions. 
LOOKS TWICE We are in the middle of a sweat lodge ceremony. Do you drag people out of your churches when they're in the middle of prayer? 
COOCH Let's take a walk, Jimmy. Come on. 
Cooch takes a careful step behind Jimmy and cuffs him. Looks Twice speaks to the others in LAKOTA, and they disband, heading to a shade arbor where their clothes hang. 
As Cooch starts marching Looks Twice toward the house, Ray keeps an eye on the departing. One of them stops halfway to the fence and turns. Grandpa Reaches looks at Ray with eyes that have seen one hundred and one hard years in Indian Country. 
RAY Go ahead. You can all go home. 
And he follows Cooch and the cuffed Jimmy to the house. 
COOCH We just wanna take a look around your place, Jimmy. We're not here to bust your balls. 
AT THE BACK OF THE HOUSE 
Cooch leads the half-naked suspect to the backdoor. Cooch show: a warrant, tries the door but it is locked. 
LOOKS TWICE What's this about? 
COOCH Your good friend Leo Fast Elk. 
LOOKS TWICE You think I killed him? Cuz he was an apple? Well, let me tell you something about Leo, Man -- 
COOCH -- don't "man" me, Jimmy. Where's the key? 
Jimmy doesn't answer. He glares with hatred into Cooch's eyes. 
COOCH Ray, use the federal master key. 
Ray steps up, gets ready to throw a frontkick at the door. 
LOOKS TWICE No. Don't do that. Don't deface the property, man. The key's in there. 
With his hands cuffed, he can only jerk his head toward a big hole in the wall down near the foundation. Cooch quickly drops to a knee and checks out the hole. 
LOOKS TWICE Inside... in the coffee can. 
Cooch reaches in, probes. 
COOCH There's no coffee can in -- 
Something horrifying happens so fast, Cooch has no time to react. 
Whatever has taken his arm has done so with such force, his body jolts like he's touched raw voltage. The South Dakota BADGER rips through his leather jacket -- we get a glimpse of its striped face and yellowed teeth -- through his shirt. Through flesh, and deeper, GROWLING insanely while COOCH HOLLERS in shock tries to pull free and -- 
Jimmy Looks Twice spins from the porch with a skillfully executed back kick, knocking Ray off the step and to the ground. The Indian bolts like a deer into the darkness. 
Ray rolls in the grass, throwing his M-16 up. He hesitates. But only for a moment before FIRING and decimating the corner gutter, a junked car, several trees. But no sign of Jimmy. 
Cooch falls back in the grass badly mauled. His arm has been ripped open down to the bone. 
COOCH Jesus... Jesus... 
Ray starts toward Cooch. 
COOCH Get him... 
Ray takes off, crashing through weeds, into a stream, wading through mud. He throws his flashlight left and right. He crosses the river, shines the light in a field of wild sage. Nothing. He runs like a sprinter, looking everywhere. But as he enters an -- 
OPEN FIELD 
all he finds is Jimmy's towel. He picks it up and looks around the area, breathing heavily. 
And then suddenly, something leaps up out of the grass. Ray swings his M-16 up, ready to blast. But it is a DEER, taking off into a mystical blue night. THE DRUM. Beating fast. Heavy. 
TURTLESHELL RATTLE. EAGLE BONE WHISTLES. 
IN THE YARD 
Cooch traps his bleeding arm between his knees to stanch the blood. He speaks quietly but firm into his radio, trying to stay in control. 
SHERMAN Anderson Chasing Hawk. Second in command behind Jimmy. 
AT THE CROW'S NEST 
Chasing Hawk hands the mic over to another Warrior. MAGGIE EAGLE BEAR would be the most beautiful woman Ray has even seen if she was not the meanest-looking. Her thick black hair falls over a denim jacket down below her horse-hair belt. Her faded jeans are stuffed into worn cowboy boots. And she is full of fire. She begins speaking in LAKOTA. Fluently. And with hand sign, like the old man. 
OUTSIDE THE ARBOR 
the agents stand. Cooch is writing into a small notebook. 
SHERMAN Magedelana Eagle Bear. Eagle's claws and a bear's balls. 
MILES She keeps an AR-15 assault rifle in her truck. And she'll use it. 
As Ray watches her, someone approaches in a less hostile manner. It is President Clear Moon, looking very upset. He holds the hand of a LITTLE GIRL, dressed in traditional dancing garb. 
He approaches Ray. 
RAY Mr. Clear Moon. 
CLEAR MOON Our police are afraid of them. Please get them out of here. 
Clear Moon gestures for the little girl to run off. He leans in close to Ray. 
CLEAR MOON They're going to kill me next. That's what I hear. These new Indians are destroying everything. Our people are a quiet people. 
RAY They can lead us to Jimmy. Just let them go. We're tightening the net on him. We know he's on the reservation. 
Clear Moon is looking past Ray at the Warriors. They are approaching the agents, and Clear Moon looks at Ray with great concern. 
CLEAR MOON Help us. 
And he slowly retreats to his lawn chair under the arbor. 
Chasing Hawk, Maggie and the other Warriors strut up to the agents. All but one who is bound to a wheelchair. We've seen RICHARD YELLOW BIRD, the big Cheyenne who wears a Red Power baseball cap, an earring, and thick bifocals -- in one of the file photos. His arms are plastered with tattoos. 
AGENT SHERMAN Where's Jimmy? We thought he'd be dancing today. 
The warriors make a show of not acknowledging the FBI presence. They have walked over here just to walk by them. That is there statement. But Yellow Bird stops cranking the wheels of his chair and stop: long enough to look up at Ray. 
YELLOW BIRD Are you the Washington Redskin? 
Even the agents crack grins at this bit of Indian wit. All but Ray who just stands there, arms folded across his chest, considering the crippled activist. 
AGENT MILES Say hello to Richard Yellow Bird, Ray. 
Yellow Bird sits there, staring up at him through thick glasses But then Maggie Eagle Bear takes the handles of Yellow Bird's wheel chair. She looks at Ray with eyes that are choke- cherry black, eyes that look right through him. He returns the glare. And then she pushes Yellowbird forward and leaves the feds alone. 
Ray turns to Cooch who is lighting a cigarette, and concentrating on the movements of this group as they wander under the arbor, visiting people. LAKOTA SINGERS start up. 
COOCH Ray, get to Jimmy's place and keep it tight. I'm gonna get a tail on his Warriors. 
IN THE POWWOW CENTER 
the under ten year-old "fancy dance" -- TWENTY-FIVE INDIAN CHILDREN, whirling and stomping and dancing. 
JIMMY LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - NIGHT 
The battered old house sits under a full moon. The upside down flag moves slightly in the cross winds. 
ACROSS THE ROAD 
several junked cars. Among them a black, rusted out VW van with a smashed windshield. A PACK OF RES DOGS sniff at its tires. 
INT. JIMMY'S VAN 
In the dim light, a boot. A black cowboy boot. Up on the dash. Bluejeans. T-shirt. Second hand leather. And a black cowboy hat. Ray is staking out Jimmy's house. 
Across the passenger seat and console is an M-16 rifle. On his belt, a .357 Red Hawk. He yawns. From outside, he hears a sound. 
POV: down below the van, a small, patchy RES DOG with a missing leg is looking up at him with his tongue long and salivating. 
RAY breaks off a piece of sandwich and drops it down to him just as -- HEADLIGHTS catch his face. He slides down low, watching an old pick-up truck creak onto the dirt road, leading to Jimmy's. 
POV: the truck parks. Someone jumps out, gracefully. Indian. Long braid. Quick steps. Front door. Inside. 
RAY lifts his radio. 
RAY X22. Read. 
RADIO Go ahead, Ray. 
RAY I have a pick-up truck. No plates. Subject -- Indian -- entering suspect's house. Over. 
RADIO Okay, Ray. I'm coming in. If he starts to leave the area, move in. And hold him. Over. 
AGENT SHERMAN What do we got, Ray? 
RAY It was just Eagle Bear. I questioned and released her. 
COOCH What'd she say? 
RAY She talks a lot of shit. We're not doing our job. Jimmy's innocent. "What's the FBI really doing here." Some shit about the Fort Laramie Treaty. 
Cooch nods. The agents form a tight unit out below the upside down flag. 
RAY She took something from the house. What she called a medicine bundle. Most likely Jimmy's. 
COOCH Let's see it. 
RAY I gave it back to her. 
AGENT SHERMAN Why? 
RAY If it is Jimmy's, she's taking it to him. We'll have a runner. But I borrowed a little mojo... 
Ray reaches inside his pant leg, down around his boot and carefully removes a white eagle feather. He gingerly tucks it in a plastic bag. 
COOCH Way to go, Raymond. Miles, take that to lab. Sherman, I want you to go back to base and produce some written material. Something that indicates that our girl Maggie is leaking information to us. And make sure that material finds its way into the hands of the Warrior Movement. 
Sherman and Miles, take off. Cooch, an impressive master of COINTELPRO, now turns to the van squad. 
COOCH You gentlemen missed that medicine basket. Go back through the house, and make sure you missed nothing else. And lay some wire, too. Let's do it. 
The van squad moves toward the house, leaving Cooch and Ray alone in the highbeams that light the yard. 
COOCH That's good goddamn work, Ray. Let the salmon run. Let 'em run Upriver. 
RAY Why we setting Eagle Bear up as an informant? 
COOCH Her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. The Warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and Jimmy loses his support. 
Ray nods, impressed. 
Cooch bends down near the road, touches the dirt. 
COOCH Her oil pan is shot. 
RAY Cooch. What's the Fort Laramie Treaty? 
COOCH Jesus, I don't know. You tell me. You're the Indian. 
Cooch wipes the oil on a handkerchief as he rises, smiling playfully at Ray. He starts back toward his car. Some sort of bird is COOING in the night. 
COOCH Get a tail on her, Ray. 
Ray looks up at the upside down flag. Then watches Cooch walking way. 
RAY Cooch. (a quiet, tired laugh) Where the fuck did they send us? 
COOCH A long way from home. You be careful out there. 
Cooch, standing there with his glasses on and his right arm bandaged, looks tired, too. He gets in his car. 
In the yard, Ray starts for the van, the res dog, trying to follow. He chases it away. And then as he gets closer to the van, he looks up to investigate the COOING SOUND. 
AT THE TOP OF THE FLAG POLE 
there is a shadow. What looks to be a large bird. It just hovers. In the shadows. 
DOWN BELOW 
Ray looks up at the pole, watching. Then walking on. 
EXT. BEAR CREEK RES - SUNRISE 
Mind-blowing sunrise of airbrush red. Clusters of lodge-pole pine. The spectacular mesa. PAINT HORSES graze in a field, a few out in the center of the road. 
AT GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER 
the old man comes down the front steps in a frail walk, carrying a paper plate. He steps down into the sage clusters that grow just off his trailer, and offers the plate up toward the sky. 
He then stoops, and scrapes a half-eaten English muffin, some potato chips and half a banana onto the Earth in a neat pile. 
He straightens his back the best he can, looks up again, and prays softly. 
THE BADLANDS 
possess an otherworldly beauty at this magic hour, a maze of shadows and rainbows. In the distance we cannot mistake the frame of Walter Crow Horse. He's out there, long hair blowing against the white bluffs. Stalking. Tracking. 
ON THE VILLAGE ROAD 
Ray looks at Crow Horse, sees that he's serious, and follows him toward his motorcycle. 
RAY Alright, Crow Horse. I'm listening. I'm listening to the trees, to the stones. Who is it? 
Crow Horse turns toward Ray, and creates a long dramatic pause. 
CROW HORSE Damned if I know. 
And he hauls his bulk onto his motorbike. 
CROW HORSE But the Old One. He did a Yuwipi ceremony last night. 
Crow Horse winks at Ray as he slams the kickstart. To no avail. 
RAY The old man? He's gonna tell you who killed Leo? 
CROW HORSE Go catch Jimmy, Ray. Really. He's gettin' away. Go ahead, go get him. I'm late. 
RAY Hey. Hey, those are my sunglasses you're wearing. 
CROW HORSE Grandpa traded with me. (flips the bird) Goodbye. 
And Crow Horse nails his kick start. The BIKE ROARS alive and the Indian works the throttle hard, leaving gravel and black exhaust. Ray stands there, drifting between logic and instinct. He looks at his watch, then starts at a slow, thoughtful shuffle toward his car. 
EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER - SHORT TIME LATER 
The dust-buzzard broncs and bounces down Grandpa's driveway, coming to a stop near the wrecked cars. Crow Horse dismounts and unhooks a carton of smokes from the back. 
A moment later, the junker van pulls in, bouncing and shaking. 
Crow Horse stares at the approaching vehicle, his eyes hidden behind Ray's former shades. He cracks a slow smile because -- 
Ray is stepping quickly from the van, and carrying two packs of Marlboros. 
INT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER 
Grandpa sits in his chair, his black eyes moving smoothly from side to side. Smoke enshrouds his ancient face, giving the sense of another time and place. He speaks LAKOTA. 
Crow Horse, sitting on a stool across from him, holds The Pipe. He passes it to Ray who sits in a busted lawn chair next to him. The room is dark as the sun sets out the window in red and purple. Ray looks at the pipe. Grandpa will not speak until Ray smokes. And so he does, drawing on the stem, awkwardly. 
HEARTBEAT DRUM as Grandpa speaks Indian. 
CROW HORSE He says, back behind Red Deer Table, where the Elk-People-used-to-live... there are strange creatures from another world who eat stones... and who will kill anyone who crosses into this place. 
Ray looks at Crow Horse, searching for a hint of lightness. But there is only great reverence as he watches Ray blow smoke upward. 
CROW HORSE He says, in the Yuwipi ceremony last night, he saw you... going back into the land beyond Red Deer Table. I was with you. But that was all the Spirits let him see so he doesn't know if you were killed or not. But he thinks you probably were. 
Ray smirks as he passes the pipe to Grandpa. Crow Horse looks nervous. Grandpa offers the pipe to the directions and then disengages the bowl from the stem. He speaks again. Crow Horse translates. 
CROW HORSE Go to the land where the Elk-People- used-to-live and you will find the answers you came here looking for. But you must go as two. That is the vision. I have spoken. And this is so. 
Grandpa leans closer to Crow Horse and whispers some Lakota. 
CROW HORSE He wants to trade. (a beat) He likes your watch. 
Ray looks at Crow Horse, nervous. 
RAY I can't do that, (explaining) It's a Rolex. 
CROW HORSE A what? 
And Grandpa is already holding out something to offer. It is a cigarette. Grandpa offers it again. 
RAY I'm sorry, this is -- (loud to Grandpa) -- this is very, very expensive. It's -- (to Crow Horse) Tell him this is an expensive watch. 
Crow Horse tells the Old Man. Grandpa speaks Indian. 
CROW HORSE He says, you need to go on Indian time. He says your watch is ruining your life anyway. 
Ray buries his hands in his jacket pocket. No way. Crow Horse signs to Grandpa "no." Grandpa gets up, crosses between the two young men, up to the TV set. He turns it on. 
WHEEL OF FORTUNE 
explodes in PINGS AND PONGS and a WOMAN'S SHRILL SCREAM. 
EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER - DAY 
Crow Horse and Ray walk down the steps. WHEEL OF FORTUNE is heard from within. 
CROW HORSE Red Deer Table, Ray. 
RAY Don't tell me: heavy duty. 
CROW HORSE Heavy, heavy duty. Taku Wakan. Wanagi Spirits. It's one of those few places we'd never go to as kids. Still don't. Some of the old people say Crazy Horse is buried back there. We have to go Ray. Together. Like his vision. 
LAUGHTER. Except for Cooch who just stares at Ray, digesting what he has said. 
RAY They don't smoke hooch in The Pipe, Miles. They smoke something called kinickinick, it's like a tobacco. 
Sherman looks at Cooch. 
SA SHERMAN Well, you're right about X21 being a Washington Redskin, that's for sure. What else, Ray? 
COOCH You boys want a soda? 
SA MILES Oh, yeah, a Coke. You buying? 
COOCH No, Ray's buying. Sherman? Coke? 
SHERMAN Oh... no. No, Cooch, I'm working on a coffee here. Indian walk? 
Cooch nods to Ray and Ray follows, gathering up some paperwork He looks determined as a terrier. 
EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - NIGHT 
Ray and Cooch throw long, slim shadows on their way to an archaic Coke machine. 
COOCH Genetic ditto on evidence found at the site with evidence you found in his belongings. An incontrovertible motive. And definite footprints on Jimmy Looks Twice at Maisy Blue Legs house. 
RAY When did we get that? 
COOCH Today. And now you -- there's a dog in the van -- 
RAY -- I know. I fed it, and I can't get rid of -- 
COOCH You weren't sent here to go off on your own detail, Ray. You were sent here to assist in a Selective Operations Unit. These regional agents are inept -- that's why they were sent out here to The Graveyard, to Indian Country. I need you behind me, Ray. Not pulling against me. 
RAY I'm not trying to pull against you, Cooch. I've just been having nightmares about the way Leo was killed. 
COOCH Your first homicide, that's gonna happen, Ray... 
RAY I just wanna make sure no one else gets done in that way because we were in bed with the wrong doer. 
COOCH Ray. I never get into bed with somebody unless I know for sure. Just the way I was raised. 
Ray studies him with a smile building. Cooch shrugs, sips some soda. 
RAY Alright. Alright... 
COOCH (lightly) Yeah, alright, alright -- fuck you -- give a yuppie a badge and he wants to take over the world. Go get a tail on Eagle Bear, and stay with her. Cuz Jimmy's gonna show. And I want you to make the collar. 
Ray nods, starting for the van. 
COOCH Ray. 
He turns. Cooch looks at him for a time. It is a warm look. 
COOCH I'll sleep around a little. 
RAY Thanks, Cooch. 
COOCH And get rid of the dog. 
Ray gets in and pulls the dog out. The dog sits at roadside, tilting its head at him, confused. And he pulls out. It runs after him. 
EXT. DIRT ROAD NEAR EAGLE BEAR'S - RES - NIGHT 
The van sits parked down the road from Maggie's dimly-lit home. Ray sits behind the wheel, watching the house. LOCUSTS make a steady and unnerving sound. It is black. Black under big sky. Ray lets his head sag out the open window and he takes in the vastness. 
POV: stars. Millions of stars. And an incredible full moon. It hangs huge over distant fields, a perfect sphere. The top half of the moon is yellow, the bottom half a lava red. 
REVERSE - RAY 
stares at it, lost in thought. From Maggie's house, he hears someone SINGING. Singing a traditional SUNDANCE SONG while they haul water from the creek. A WOMAN'S VOICE, trilling out the beautiful but haunting "hey-o-hey-o-hey-o-hey-ohhhhh." 
Ray just sits, listening. And then something draws his attention to his rearview mirror. 
The res dog, lying in the back seat is GROWLING. Lip curled back, growling low. 
Ray looks at him, looks out the window. Blackness. Nothing but the sound of locusts. And a slight crosswind in the wheat fields. The dog stops growling. And Ray fixes his gaze on the house again, lifting a pair of binoculars and -- 
BOOOOOOM! The rear windshield is SHATTERED by an explosion. Ray throws himself low across the passenger seat -- BOOOOOM! The driver's side window and part of the door explodes. 
RES ROAD NEAR EAGLE BEAR'S 
The federal van is HAMMERED BY GUNFIRE. All the windows, shattered, the metal doors splayed. Someone is going for the kill, 
THE PASSENGER DOOR 
is thrown open just as its window implodes, and Ray slides out belly first, gripping his M-16 and crawling like a dog soldier into tall wheat at roadside as the car, the road, the wheat, the dirt, the night are slammed by gunfire. 
A flat-bed tow truck drives past the motel with the killer's car on it. Behind the truck is a fed car which stops at the motel, and the Le Baron which also pulls in. Miles and Sherman get out from the first car, Ray and Cooch bail from the Le Baron. 
With RADIOS TRANSMITTING, the agents walk, dusty and tired, into room 14. Ray hesitates, snagged by the sight of -- 
A motorcycle parked in front of the Buffalo Butte Bar. Parked with pick-up trucks and station wagons. It's the mud-caked old Barley. Parked right under the NO INDIANS sign. 
He puzzles over this. 
INT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - DAY 
Dark. Even during the day. Cigarette smoke. Sawdust. On the archaic juke box, RANDY TRAVIS sings "Old 8x10" while behind the bar, the BAR OWNER, an old man with long white hair and beard, busies himself with leather work. SEVERAL WHITE LOCALS sit on the old water drum bar stools. 
Heads lift, turn when Ray enters in his "fraternizing" clothes -- jeans and boots, leather jacket. He scuffs up thick sawdust as he heads to the furthest booth back where -- 
Crow Horse sits, alone over a bourbon and a beer. Ray approaches carefully, upset by the sight. He slides into the booth and point blanks the Indian. 
CROW HORSE Agent Little Weasel, Federal Bura of your Imagination. 
RAY Jesus Christ. You're hammered. What are you doing? 
CROW HORSE You're right about the old man. His power's long dried up. He's supposed to be a medicine man but he won't go see the people. He says we changed, and we don't listen. Well, he don't go out and talk no more. I haven't had a drink in three years but I just turned my sobriety chip into that man behind the bar, and this Hoss is gettin' watered. 
RAY Cut the shit. You shouldn't be in here, Man. 
CROW HORSE Cuz I'm a skin? 
RAY Cuz you're a cop. 
CROW HORSE Not no more. 
RAY What are you talking about? 
CROW HORSE You tell me. You tell me who went to the B.I.A. -- Bureau of Indian Annihilation and said I was messin' with your case, man. I don't give a goddamn about your case. 
RAY And I don't give a goddamn about whether you wear a badge or not, Crow Horse, but I didn't cut you. 
Crow Horse shimmers his black eyes onto Ray. 
CROW HORSE Still after Jimmy? 
RAY They found prints at Blue Legs' place. 
CROW HORSE Yeah. Jimmy's prints are there. But they cross over Benjamin Black Star's prints. And he wasn't there until six o'clock the mornin' after to get eggs from the chickens. So Jimmy wasn't there til the next day. Follow? 
Ray just looks vacantly at Crow Horse. Crow Horse resents the vacancy. 
CROW HORSE Look, man... you better bust Jimmy and get out before somebody shoots up more than your car next time. 
Ray glares at him. 
RAY Next time I'll be ready. You get the word to who ever it is. 
CROW HORSE I can't, Hoss. I don't talk to FBI's. 
Ray doesn't blink. 
CROW HORSE You think you was sent here cuz you're a good cop? 
RAY No. I was sent here cuz I'm Indian. And a good cop. 
Crow Horse leans toward Ray and speaks more quietly. 
CROW HORSE You ever think that maybe you was sent here cuz the FBI's need one good reason to take out the entire Warrior Movement. And what better reason than one of their men, gettin' blown away on the res. A low-rent, expendable public servant sent in to take a bullet for his country. 
Ray is fuming. He can't believe what he's hearing, what's being insinuated, but he's giving it thought and it's getting him angry. He smashes a hand down on the table. 
RAY I'm sick of your shit -- 
RANCHER (O.S.) I'm sick of the two of ya timber niggers spewin' off. 
Standing over the booth is a long, tall RANCHER'S SON. Rangey with red curly hair tucked under a BLACK HILLS CLASSIC cap, and arms built by tractor work. And behind him, TWO OLDER RANCHERS fall in. And ANOTHER YOUNG MAN, grinning with amusement. 
Ray and Crow Horse look up. 
CROW HORSE Sorry, we don't speak United States. 
RANCHER'S SON Yeah, well I do. Get the Jesus up, and get the Jesus out or I'm gonna go out to my truck and come back with my hardware. 
RAY Woh, hold on there, Jack, you're -- 
RANCHER'S SON -- don't "jack" me, Squanto. I'll bury your lazy ass right here. 
Ray realizes now that they think he's Indian, too. Crow Horse sees this revelation and complicates it by suddenly speaking LAKOTA to Ray. 
The rancher grabs Ray by the cheeks. 
REVERSE - MAGGIE 
keeping her eyes on the Wasi'cu, but addressing Yellow Bird. 
MAGGIE Richard. Sing the Honoring Song with them. I'll be right back. 
ON THE HILL 
Ray stands, watching Maggie walking into the wind, toward him. Behind her an HONORING SONG, sung by ten children haunts the still air. 
He doesn't budge as she mounts the gentle bluff and joins him there. 
MAGGIE We're praying at the grave. Do you wanna join us? 
A long silence. The voices carry in the wind. 
RAY No, Maggie. But you're gonna have to join me for a ride. I'm taking you to Rapid City. 
Maggie looks at him. They lock eyes. 
MAGGIE So much power. I see it in your eyes. This... hunger for power. Or for what you think is power. 
As if exhausted by the thought, Maggie sits down on the bluff, looking out at the children who are still singing the song. As she speaks, she begins digging her fingers in the earth. Ray stands over her. 
RAY You burned an American flag today. And left it for me... 
MAGGIE -- You desecrated it, it had to be burned. 
RAY I desecrated it? 
MAGGIE You forced an innocent man to run like an animal. You've tried to poison my people's hearts against me with your manipulation, with letters I never wrote... you've been watching me eat, work, raise my family... wash myself in the river. And now you're here, arresting me at a sacred place. (a beat) In your eyes, that's power. 
Maggie lifts herself onto her knees and looks down into the small hole she's dug. She picks up a little pine cone. 
MAGGIE So I plant this tree for you. And I take all this stuff that you've laid on me and my people, and I put it in this hole with this pine cone. (she covers it) And I bury it. Cuz ya know what it is, Ray? Bullshit. And shit is fertilizer. (she stands) And The Mother will turn your lies into something that lives. 
Maggie rises, dusting off her hands. She looks him in the soul. 
MAGGIE That's what power is, in the Indian way. (holds her hands out to be cuffed) Take me to Rapid, Ray. I'm the enemy. 
Ray just stares at her, struggling with what he's feeling, what he's hearing. What he's supposed to be feeling. Silence hangs between the two of them. 
RAY If I told you... that I think Jimmy's innocent... but I'm in over my head... would you believe me? 
Maggie looks at him, considering. Then toward the long dark silhouette of a mountain range across the plains. 
MAGGIE See those Black Hills out there, Ray? When the people lost the land in 1868, the government took everything but those hills. They allowed us to keep those Black Hills, to live there. Signed a treaty. Until they found gold. Then they told us we had to leave because of National interest. They broke that treaty. Anyone who fought or spoke out against it, wound up dead or in jail. And the people wound up here. On a reservation. 
While she looks off at Paha Sapa, Ray stares at her profile. 
MAGGIE While up there, in the Black Hills... they carved the faces of four presidents. 
She looks at Ray with an ironic smile, and she catches him transfixed. 
MAGGIE Your relatives must've taught you something. 
RAY NO. (after thought) My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant... good boy. 
Maggie starts giggling. 
RAY What? 
MAGGIE Wa-shee is like... a dumpling. Like tallow we put in stew. I think he was calling you chubby boy. 
RAY Great. 
Maggie is laughing as she looks back at the children who are no longer singing. Ray reaches inside his jacket and takes out five polaroids. He shuffles them as he ponders. He hands one to Maggie who has caught herself opening up too much to the Wasi'cu. 
RAY You ever see that car before? 
Maggie looks at the first photo and says nothing. She hands it back quickly. Ray won't take it. 
RAY Who's it belong to? 
Maggie ignores him. Ray studies her reaction. 
RAY Help me, Maggie... 
Maggie is looking away. She picks a long blade of grass and smoothes it in her hands. 
Ray looks at her a moment longer then rises, dusting off his jeans, and standing there. He thinks for a long moment, pinches the bridge of his nose, then looks out at the Black Hills, pensive. 
RAY I didn't see you today, Maggie. (a beat) Goodbye. 
Maggie watches him go. Looks away. Then watches him again. 
Ray sits in a busted chair, reaches down to his ankle holster and pulls out a .38. He holds it, resting it on the arm of the chair. He strains to look out through the boarded window. Yellow Bird fidgets in his chair. 
RAY Get up out of the chair, Richard. 
YELLOW BIRD What's with you people? Why do ya have to fuck with my head all the time? I came through, man. 
RAY Get up out of the chair, and walk toward the backdoor, Richard. 
YELLOW BIRD (not moving) I get thrown in solitary until I don't know my own fuckin' name, and then you people tell me I can beat nine years if I help you. I helped you! 
RAY Get up! 
Yellow Bird stands. He takes a step forward. Limping. He's got leg problems but he can walk. Heels first. And bowed. But he can walk. He is shaking. 
YELLOW BIRD They said I'd never see FBI again, and I'm livin' with you fuckers. I don't feed ya information on the Warriors, it's back to the pen. I don't do this, back to the pen. Your word against my word. Against a con Indian's word. I really got a chance, man, right? 
RAY They sent me here, Richard because they said you didn't hold up your end of the arrangement, and I have to transport you back to Leavenworth. 
YELLOW BIRD (crying) What the fuck, man? What do you people want? I did what you wasi'cu's told me to do. 
RAY Leo Fast Elk... is alive. 
Yellow Bird wheels. 
YELLOW BIRD No way. No fuckin' way. 
RAY How the hell do you know? 
YELLOW BIRD I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know! Now you're gonna say I didn't, so you can throw me back in solitary? 
Ray is trying hard not to reveal his horror at this confession, at this understanding of the machinery. He sits there with his gun, blinking away sweat that beads at his brow. Yellow Bird is weeping in a highpitched voice that doesn't match his great bulk. 
RAY The men who came to see you at Leavenworth. The one's who made the arrangement... who were they? Maybe I can talk to them. 
YELLOW BIRD Miles. Three other suits. That's all I know 'em as -- suits. Were you there? 
RAY You turned Leo over on his face. But the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. It's out, and it knows. 
YELLOW BIRD What do you know about spirits? You ain't no In'dn. 
RAY Leo knew something heavy and was trying to tell Jimmy. But you must not know how serious it was or you would have delivered. Do you realize what Leo could have told Jimmy?! Do you?! 
YELLOW BIRD I took him out before he got the chance. He didn't say nothin' about Tashka Sha. And now his spirit is in the dirt. Forever. 
RAY What's Tashka Sha, speak English, speak English! 
YELLOW BIRD Red Deer Table! What's with you, man? 
Ray grabs onto these words, rolls them silently on his lips And now Yellow Bird is getting suspicious of the fed. 
YELLOW BIRD Wait a minute. Wait -- what are you doin'? You ain't a FBI. You ain't the law. Let me see your -- 
Ray snaps out his gun, straight-armed. 
RAY I'm the fucking law! 
Yellow Bird jumps back, raising his hands. 
RAY Keep talking, Yellow Bird... 
YELLOW BIRD All I know... is I did what I did... and I ain't in solitary, gettin' pumped up with downer, gettin' beat to shit. But I tell you what, Suit. Take me back. Cuz I can't take this shit no more. 
And then HEADLIGHTS pierce the gaps in the boarded windows. Yellow Bird collapses against the wall, bangs his head off it. He lets a long, pained, cry escape from under his breath and he begins a slow slide down the wall, to the floor. 
Ray peers out the cracks in the boards. 
YELLOW BIRD Man, I don't know who the fuck I am no more. 
Ray gets up, putting his gun away and heading to the door. He stops and looks back at the Indian, sitting on the floor, clutching his knees, staring into the kerosene flicker. 
RAY You and me both. 
Yellow Bird looks at him, his glasses foggy, his face contorted And Ray leaves. 
EXT. YELLOW BIRD'S SHACK - NIGHT 
Ray steps out into the falling night. There is a car parked there. With a high aerial. Ray raises a hand in a slight wave, walks on. At the fed car, A REGIONAL AGENT behind the wheel, waves a hand. Watches Ray get into the Le Baron. 
Ray gets in the car and takes off. 
LE BARON - TRAVELING 
Ray drives like a crazy man through the dark reservation. Through miles of open land and strange rock formations. And he looks trapped. HEADLIGHTS flicker in his rearview. He sees this. Slams the gas pedal. 
EXT. RES ROADS - NIGHT 
CROW HORSE Why? So you can get rid of me, too? 
RAY No. So we can do what the old man said. Red Deer Table, Walter. We have to go. 
Crow Horse lies there, breathing heavy. Ray on top of him, still clutching his gun. 
INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING - NIGHT 
Ray and Crow Horse are quiet as they eat up the dirt roads. 
CROW HORSE Maybe the old man's visions are still strong. 
Ray nods, concentrating. After a time: 
RAY Do they come in dreams, these visions? 
CROW HORSE Oh yeah. Dreams. Sometimes durin' sickness. Vision quest. Sweat Lodge. Ya never know when. 
RAY Just before we caught Jimmy... I had a dream that I was being chased. And I was running with other people. Old- fashion Indian people. I got shot in the back. Like Leo. 
When Crow Horse doesn't respond, Ray looks over and finds him staring. He looks back to the road. And when he looks back at Crow Horse, he is still staring at him. 
CROW HORSE Where was this? 
RAY At Wounded Knee. I mean, that's where I was, and that's where the dream was. Why? 
CROW HORSE You were running with the old ones. At The Knee. Heavy duty. 
RAY Well, it was just a dream, I -- 
CROW HORSE Sonuvabuck! What's with you, Man? Who are you? 
RAY What do you mean? 
CROW HORSE Nothin'. Forget it. 
Crow Horse looks out the window as if to avoid Ray who is confused by the Indian's smoldering. After a moment, Crow Horse looks at him. 
CROW HORSE You had a vision. You had yourself a vision. A man waits a long time for a vision. Might go his whole lifetime and never get one. And along comes some instant Indian with a Mastercard and brand-new shoes, has himself a vision. 
RAY Sorry. 
CROW HORSE I'm a full-blood Oglala. 
RAY We've driven a long way. Where is this place? 
CROW HORSE Maybe it was just a dream. Ya know, just one of them, what do ya call 'em, fitful dreams? 
RAY Yeah. Fitful dreams. 
Crow Horse feels better. He looks out the window, nodding. But it doesn't last long. 
CROW HORSE Bullshit. You had a vision. You got sign from the old ones. 
RAY What the hell do you want me to do?! 
CROW HORSE Stop. 
Ray brakes. Crow Horse is looking past him. Ray turns. The spectacular mesa that we have admired with every sunrise, looms massive now that we are under it. Moonlight falls on it. And the HEARTBEAT DRUM pulses from it. 
EXT. WHERE-THE-ELK-PEOPLE-USED-TO-LIVE - NIGHT 
The land behind Red Deer Table is Badlands. Badlands pierced by a few rutted old wagon roads. At a place between two grotesque buttes, Crow Horse stops, looking uneasy. 
He digs into his pocket, pulls out some loose tobacco and spills it on the ground. Then he walks on. 
Ray observes this, starting forward, then stopping long enough to fish a cigarette out from his pocket and drop it next to Crow Horse's offering. 
THROUGH THE BADLANDS 
Ray and Crow Horse walk, carefully under a full moon, scanning the area. Crow Horse stops, checks out some tracks. Ray walks on, looking up at the table. He shines his flashlight up and it illuminates -- 
A RED RIBBON, tied on stakes on a ridge. Ten stakes. Twenty stakes. Ribbons blowing in the wind. 
RAY What's that? 
CROW HORSE Ain't prayer flags, that's for sure. 
Ray sweeps the light along, walking faster, and then something frightening occurs. Something... some unseen thing snags him by the leg, sucking him into the Earth with a horrible GUSHING SOUND. 
Ray is drawn into a hole up to his hips, a bluish-black slime, oozing out around him. Crow Horse grabs him, struggling to pull him up. He does, stumbling back and stepping into a hole himself. 
The two men are wheeling, throwing flashlight beams around, slapping through a wet jelly, and finally getting their bearings. 
Ray touches the ground where a blue-black chemical solution oozes out with water from the aquifer below. His flashlight scans -- 
EXT. YELLOW BIRD'S SHACK - RES - DAWN 
The shack is just as Ray left it earlier, kerosene flickers dancing yellow through the gapped boards. Ray and Crow Horse with guns drawn, approach the front door. 
CROW HORSE I thought it was a rare case of a brother getting a break in the courts. We did an honorin' song for him and everything. 
RAY He's looking at a few hundred years in Leavenworth. He's not gonna come out without a fight. 
Crow Horse snakes around toward the rear of the shack. 
Ray knocks at the front door. It is unlatched and it creaks open a little. Ray pushes it open and sees -- 
INT. YELLOW BIRD SHACK 
An empty wheelchair. 
EXT. YELLOW BIRD SHACK 
Ray steps away from the door, looking around the vast plains as the sun comes up out of the Black Hills. He is roadblocked, and it shows in his eyes. It's all getting too big. 
Crow Horse leans against the shack, watching Ray. And then RADIO STATIC from inside the Le Baron. Ray pivots and stares at it as if someone is inside the car. His call signal is being paged. But he just stands there, looking at it. 
RADIO X21. Read. X21... 
Ray reaches inside the car and lifts the handset. He takes a breath before pressing it to his lips. 
RAY X21. Come back. 
RADIO Ray. What's your 20? 
Ray looks at Crow Horse who looks equally spooked. The agent clears his throat. 
RAY Reservation. 
A long, unnerving pause. No response from the other side. 
RADIO What are you doing on the reservation? 
RAY I'm on my way back in. Over. 
Ray holds the handset down at his side, looking over the top of the car toward the Black Hills. 
CROW HORSE Ray. Ray, don't let go now, Man. Ray... 
RAY You go to the council fire. I'm going back in. 
CROW HORSE Ray. 
Ray swings in behind the wheel, starts the car, and barrels off recklessly down the rutted road, leaving Crow Horse behind. 
CROW HORSE Ray! 
The Le Baron is already out to where sight reaches farther than sound and silent white dust mushrooms skyward. 
EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - MORNING 
A RAVEN is sentinel on a telephone wire that crosses the road from the bar to motel. A few trucks remain parked in front of the joint. 
Ray approaches room 13, looking shell-shocked. His boots leave blue mud prints all the way to the door. He unlocks it. 
INT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - ROOM 
Ray has cast off his field clothes and is halfway into one of his cleaner suits. He looks haggard but still buoyant, his eyes piercing. The connecting door creaks open and Cooch walks in. The SAC is freshly showered and he is fidgeting with a Windsor knot. He studies his number two man, says nothing for a moment but is obviously holding something down. His face is a red hue. 
COOCH (extra casual) Couldn't sleep, Ray? 
Ray looks at Cooch. When he speaks, his voice is dry. 
RAY No... 
Cooch crosses the room, and picks up Ray's jeans which look like they went through a sandlot tackle match in a mud hole. Ray tucks his clean shirt in; watching Cooch. 
RAY I had to finish something with Crow Horse. 
Cooch walks up to Ray slowly and takes his face in his hand, turning it toward lamp light to study the bruise along his left eye, a residual from a Crow Horse hook. 
COOCH That's where you were. You had to go back and have it out with the Indian law... 
Ray nods, and Cooch slowly breaks a smile. An insecure smile but a smile just the same. He starts to laugh. 
COOCH You fucking hot head, we can get in trouble for that. 
Cooch laughs in amusement and Ray's face crinkles into a grin as he lowers his eyes, wiping a paper towel over his face. And then, suddenly, Ray lunges at Cooch. 
He slams the Agent in Charge against the hollow wall, and holds him there. His eyes wild. 
And Cooch squeals out with a petrified Clear Moon in the backseat, inquiring nervously. 
EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES 
Crow Horse passes by an abandoned horse trailer. When he does, another car pulls out. And follows. The first car passes by. 
Crow Horse sees he's being followed. He cranks his throttle and the engine grinds then dies. He heels his kickstart on the fly, and keeps it alive. But his old horse is no match for the big engines coming up fast behind him. 
INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING 
Ray is leaving little transitional developments and trailers behind. His eyes bore into the road before him, looking for a sign of Crow Horse, and in the rearview for a sign of his FBI mentor. 
EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES - BADLANDS 
Crow Horse has the throttle open. But the two cars are coming up on both sides, trying to sandwich him. To his right the Badlands loom deep, a drop into a caliche netherworld of jagged rock. 
He throws the bike right, trying to ride the thin ribbon of shoulder. 
THE FIRST CAR 
floors it, and swipes him, and the bike goes over the edge, launched into -- 
THE BADLANDS 
where it does a violent triple flip, throwing Crow Horse then smashing into a tent shaped dune. 
A RIFLE 
sticks out from a window and punches the Badlands with THREE SHOTS. 
EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES 
The Le Baron rifles past the abandoned horse trailer. Black smoke drifts in a wind ahead. 
Ray veers onto the shoulder, barely gets the car in park before bailing and running wildly down into the Badlands. 
EXT. BADLANDS 
Ray runs, stumbles through the rock and gypsum, searching the area. He runs around the burning motorcycle, looking left and right. 
RAY Crow Horse! 
CROW HORSE 
lies on his back in the Badlands, eyes open, fixed unmoving on the sky. Ray comes out of the flame-waves, running with his .45 held high. He throws himself to his knees beside the injured Indian. 
RAY Crow Horse! 
Crow Horse rolls his eyes toward the FBI agent. He has a gash behind his ear, and pink sand clings to the blood. He lifts his head, tries to form words. 
CROW HORSE Ain't no Council Fire, Brother. Clear Moon... 
RAY I know. Come on. We gotta get off the reservation or we're dead. 
CROW HORSE Hoka Hey. It's a good day to die. 
RAY Bullshit, let's get outta here, 
Ray gets an arm under the big Indian, helps him up out of a jagged crevice. 
CROW HORSE Grandpa... 
EXT. RESERVATION ROAD 
Cooch's car speeds down the stretch. Followed by Sherman's. The FBI van. All at one-hundred and five. Gravel and dirt flies. 
INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING 
With Crow Horse half-passed out in the passenger seat, Ray keeps the wheel steady. And then his RADIO STATICS. 
RADIO X21, please read. Ray. Ray. X21, please read. This is Cooch. Please come in, Ray. Where are you? 
Ray just stares down at the radio, keeps the pedal floored. The throws the wheel left. 
EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER 
The Le Baron fish-tails in a cloud of dust and Ray leaps out of the car, runs toward the little trailer, gun in hand. The windows are all busted, and the door is wide open. Ray runs in. Then straight back out, shaking his head to Crow Horse. 
Crow Horse hangs his head out the passenger window. 
RAY He's gone. 
CROW HORSE He hasn't left this place in twenty years. They got him. 
Ray starts to get back in then hesitates. He looks out across the plains to see -- 
AT THE EDGE OF THE ARROYO 
the caravan slides in recklessly, two of the fed cars coming dangerously close to going over the edge. The regional officers and six Clear Moon goons empty out, running down the dip, rifles and shotguns ready. 
Three more field agents come down from another direction, followed by Cooch. Sherman hands a bullhorn to him. 
COOCH (via bullhorn) FREEZE! NOW! 
The sound of FIFTEEN PRIMING FIREARMS stops Ray and Crow Horse in their tracks. Just twenty feet from The Stronghold. Crow Horse, windless, stumbles to a knee. Ray turns slowly, facing the small army. 
COOCH DROP IT. 
Crow Horse, rises, sucking wind, and ditches his gun in the Badlands. Ray holds onto his .45 a moment longer. Then drops it. He stares at -- 
THE WALL OF MEN 
Cooch, SA Miles, SA Sherman, Six regional officers, six Clear Moon goons. And now, coming out of the backseat of Cooch's Chevy, Oliver Clear Moon, walking tentatively, cautiously. 
Cooch lowers the bullhorn. He takes the opportunity to stare at Ray. To let Ray stare at him. The older agent looks broken. 
COOCH Crow Horse, get your face in the dirt. Ray... come forward. Let it go. Let's just let it go... 
AT THE STRONGHOLD ENTRANCE 
Crow Horse lowers himself to a knee then lies face down. Ray just stands there, the wind against him. 
COOCH (O.S.) Come on, Ray. Come forward. 
RAY No way, Cooch. 
Ray refuses to move. 
COOCH 
sweating, tries to keep control. All around him, hands are on guns. Cooch is walking toward Ray. 
COOCH Ray. I'm coming to talk to you. I'm gonna walk you out of here. And we're gonna get the hell outta this place. 
Cooch walks toward him, a gun hanging at one side, bullhorn at the other. The agents behind him, around him, all raise rifles, all take aim. 
Sherman, looking sick, gets to a knee and sets aim. The sound of clacking steel, all around. But Cooch seems disturbed by the sound. Because its coming from above. He raises an eye from the rifle sight to see -- 
ALONG THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE 
FIFTEEN INDIANS, training rifles and shotguns down below. 
SHERMAN 
looks up from his rifle, bewildered. Then alarmed. 
ALONG THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE 
We PAN across fifteen Indians -- old people, women, kids. Their weapons are weak but many. 
And at the end of the row, Maisy Blue Legs rises, clutching a rifle. And PAST HER, ANOTHER. TRADITIONAL PEOPLE, many from the trading post porch, rise to the edge, armed. Silent. 
Twenty, twenty-five, thirty traditionals, forming a line along the ridge, a line that runs in a circle, broken by the Stronghold entrance, then starting again on the next butte. Thirty-five, forty of them. And more, standing along the opposite craggy rock, some wearing tractor caps, some cowboy hats, some just long hair blowing in the wind. Fifty, sixty, SEVENTY-FIVE RESERVATION PEOPLE forming a circle on the rocks; it's Little Big Horn revisited. A fourteen year-old boy struggles to keep a huge shotgun at his shoulder. 
DOWN BELOW 
Clear Moon's mouth is as dry as Badlands soil. Cooch is panicking, his eyes running along the high edge. 
RAY 
stands equally astonished, assessing the back-up. 
CROW HORSE 
lifts himself, stands, taking in the sight. 
AT THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE 
stepping stiffly but steadily through the line of armed locals, pushing his way to the very edge so as to look down, Grandpa Sam Reaches. The wind makes feathery tails out of his long thinning strips of white hair. 
DOWN BELOW 
Ray looks up at the old man, then turns to face Cooch. 
RAY You're right, Cooch. It's over. 
Cooch slowly, lets the bullhorn fall. Then the rifle. He looks back at Sherman who does the same, and all the way down the line, everyone dropping their arms under the threat of a lot more guns from above. And now Ray walks forward, collecting his gun. Anderson Chasing Hawk, one of the Warriors, runs down to Ray, breathless. 
CHASING HAWK All the exits are blocked. There's two more fed cars tryin' to get in. And some press. 
Ray notices that Cooch is staring at him, hard. He shakes his head slowly. Strongly. 
