TICKER 
Written by 
Paul B. Margolis 
Original Draft: 11/10/97 
1   EXT.   METROPOLITAN CITY - DOWNTOWN - LATE NIGHT              1 
Hot summer night. The flesh district - hookers working the sidewalks, stopping cars. 
MIKE REILLY, 20s, paces a corner, restless, looking for action ... wet hair, three-day beard, trenchcoat, sneakers, heat-seeking weary eyes. He flashes a wad of bills in an effort to get some attention... no one notices. 
Across the street, BILL RICE, 50's, a ragged transient, strolls over. 
RICE Know what the problem is, kid?   You're too ugly to get propositioned. 
REILLY Look who's talking, old man. 
RICE C'mon, it's a quiet night. 
Rice starts away.   Reilly pauses, then trudges after him. 
2   EXT.   SIDESTREET - NIGHT                                     2 
Rice and Reilly pull donuts and coffee out of a bag, talk with their mouths full as they walk. 
RICE Next week we work the park. 
REILLY I gotta get back on top.   Get off the sleaze detail. 
RICE You will, one day at a time.   I'll be old and grey when it happens... 
They share a grin, pass a BAG LADY who wears a pie-tin crown, holding her hand out to a PIMP getting into a Cadillac. 
BAG LADY A small gift, sir, for the Queen ... 
The Pimp ignores her, screeches off. The Bag Lady pulls out a pad, adds his license number to a list, glances up at Rice and Reilly. 
BAG LADY (cont.) I keep a record, see? They don't pay, I don't forget. 
Rice fishes some change out of his pocket. 
RICE Here you go, your Highness. 
BAG LADY Thank you, officer. 
She pushes her shopping cart away. Rice and Reilly look at each other, crack up, surprised she knew he was a cop. 
REILLY So what'll you do? After they give you the gold watch. 
RICE Hell, I got a gold watch... it just don't work. Maybe they'll give me a new fishing pole, or something useful. 
REILLY You don't fish. 
RICE How hard can it be? The grand kids been buggin' me about taking them camping. 
REILLY You outta the city... that's a fish out of water. What's with all this family talk lately, anyway? 
RICE One of these days you're gonna get tired of fighting the shit. When that happens, you'll wish you had family. 
REILLY No thanks.   I got close but it never woulda worked. 
SWAN, 40s, crazy-brilliant, manic eyes... and one of his men, pale, sweaty, wearing an EARRING, 30s, continue the barrage. 
Swan fires ONE SHOT at a time at Rice, deliberately aiming not to kill him, trying to flush Reilly out. 
Rice screams as BULLETS RIP into his legs. Reilly tries to reach him but can't, shots forcing him back. 
A dark-eyed man with a BEARD appears in the b.g. and stealths towards Reilly from behind. 
Reilly' face is in agony as Rice moans in pain. He glances urgently from the gunmen to the exit behind them, to The Girl lying next to him -- what's keeping them there? Obviously The Girl. 
She stirs. Desperate, Reilly grabs her by the hair, shoves his 9mm to her head. Using her as a shield, he drags her in front of Rice to protect him. 
REILLY (to gunmen) Drop it! 
Swan's eyes flare. He steps out into the open, gun aimed at Rice, eyes locked murderously on Reilly. 
SWAN Let her go. 
Reilly cocks his hammer, fingers trembling.   The Girl stiffens, terrified. 
Beard emerges behind Reilly. Deadly silent, he raises an automatic, trying to get a clear shot between machines... 
SWAN (cont.) No, the girl! 
Reilly whirls, sees Beard, shrinks back to stay covered. 
EARRING (to Swan) We gotta get outta here! 
REILLY (to Swan) Tell them to drop it - now! 
A deadly stalemate.   Faraway SIRENS WAIL. 
SWAN You have no idea how sorry you're going to be. (to The Girl) Don't worry. 
Beard smolders, Earring sweats. Keeping their guns up, the three men grab tool bags, work their way to the alley door and slip out. 
The moment they're gone, Reilly quickly handcuffs The Girl to a machine, kneels, cradles Rice. 
RICE Mike... 
REILLY Don't talk. 
RICE Take your time... one day at a time, kid... 
Rice takes Reilly's hand and pats it on his wristwatch. 
RICE (cont.) It's all I got... it's yours. 
REILLY It don't work- 
RICE (grinning) Ain't that a shit-- 
Rice's eyes go blank, he exhales his last breath. 
Reilly winces, eyes welling up. His gaze moves at the Girl. 
The Girl stares uncomfortably, a blink of sympathy stealing past her hard exterior ... 
5   INT.   POLICE HEADQUARTERS - MORNING                            5 
Looking numb, out of place, Rice's blood still on his trenchcoat, Reilly walks in, weaves through a chaos of ringing phones, overworked cops, suspects being booked. 
Cops look up, whisper about him. 
7   INT.   POLICE STATION - BASEMENT - DAY                          7 
Emerging from a dingy back staircase, Reilly enters a hallway and moves to a door a door marked "BOMB SQUAD." 
8   INT.   POLICE STATION - "THE CAVE" - DAY                        8 
Reilly enters into another world - a dungeon cluttered with bomb paraphernalia, defusing equipment, a dog house, ping- pong table, Sheryl Crow pin-up, Chicago Bears posters, Yassir Arafat dartboard, a photo-shrine to dead Bomb Squaders. 
A plain, fresh-faced assistant, BEV, 30s, looks up from her computer station. 
BEV May I help you? 
REILLY I'm looking for the Bomb Squad. 
BEV They're not here. 
REILLY Where are they? 
BEV And you are...? 
REILLY Officer Reilly, vice. 
BEV There out on a call, perhaps I can help you- 
REILLY -Where? 
BEV 2600 block of Lakefront.   A limousine.   But, I- 
REILLY Thanks. 
Reilly sprints out.   Bev tries to finish but he's gone. 
9    EXT.   CITY STREETS - DAY                                         9 
The Studebaker coughs and smokes in and out of traffic. 
10   EXT.   LAKEFRONT STREET - DAY                                  10 
A young, uniformed police OFFICER stops Reilly in front of a cordoned-off section of the street. 
REILLY (flashes badge) Bomb Squad. 
The Officer nods and moves the barricade out of the way, Reilly hits the gas, rumbles through. 
The Studebaker swings past a fire truck, an ambulance, and two squads cars. 
Two OFFICERS stand near a building with a worried BUSINESSMAN and his CHAUFFEUR. 
Reilly parks 50 yards from a limo stopped in the middle of the street. A Bomb Squad van and sleek black Harley Davidson parked beyond it. 
Reilly hops out, heads cautiously for the limo 
POOCH, 50s, a barrel-chested ex-football player is on his hands and knees looking under the limo. Red rubber ball in hand, Hawaiian shirt half-tucked in, he leads around an equally scruffy Labrador Retriever, SCHNOZ. 
POOCH Smell anything, Schnoz?    Me, neither. 
T.J., 20s, a country boy inspects the open trunk. 
GLASS, 40s, clean-cut, straight-laced, easy-going smile, brilliant leader of the team, steps lightly around the open driver's door. 
POOCH (contíd) (cont.) Schnoz, come here, boy. 
T.J. Shhh, I hear something.... 
T.J. Make an appointment. 
REILLY It's about this. 
Reilly holds up the bracelet.    Glass takes it, frowns. 
GLASS Where did you get this? 
REILLY Off a girl's wrist.    A suspect... 
T.J. P.E.T.N ... 
REILLY What? 
GLASS High-grade det cord. This girl, either she's got strange taste in jewelry or she's into serious demolition. 
REILLY What do you mean? 
Glass whips out a blasting cap from his utility belt, cuts off a piece of the bracelet, plugs it in. 
POOCH Fire in the hole! 
Glass tosses it into a sewer drain. A beat, then a small EXPLOSION, smoke billows out of the gutter drain. The nearby Officers jump, alarmed. The Bomb Squad guys laugh. Glass waves to the Officers. 
GLASS Sorry about that. (to Reilly) That's an inch of the stuff, imagine what the whole thing'd do. 
REILLY Thanks. 
He grabs back the bracelet, turns to leave. 
GLASS Hey wait a minute- 
Reilly jogs back to his Studebaker, climbs in and roars off in a cloud of dirty smoke. 
T.J. Vice... Jesus. 
POOCH That'd be some explosive pussy he's got his hands on. 
Pooch and T.J. share a laugh as Glass shakes his head, climbs on his Harley. The others pile into the van. 
Glass kicks-starts his hog and rumbles away, van following. 
12   INT.   BAR - DAY                                                  12 
Thin crowd of day-time drinkers. Earring walks in, moves to a booth where Swan and Beard are eating. Earring pulls out a Gallois (French) cigarette, lights up from a book of matches. 
EARRING They're holding her downtown. 
SWAN What about the cop? 
Earring shrugs. 
BEARD If you'd let me waste him. 
EARRING What if she talks? 
SWAN She won't. 
BEARD I say we split town. Come back to this job when things cool. We've got other contracts - Denver, Seattle... 
Swan slams his fist down, spilling food.     No one in bar even looks up from their drink. 
SWAN I want her back and we do the job. 
WINTERS Goddamit, Reilly-- 
REILLY Look, I saw these guys, I can i.d. them. 
WINTERS I know you're anxious to get back but... just stay out of homicide's way or I'll have you classifying fingerprints, understand? 
REILLY Yes, sir. 
Reilly takes off, Pluchinsky glares. 
14   INT.   THE CAVE - DAY                                           14 
T.J. is hunched over a twisted mess of wires, untangling them.   Pooch taste-tests dog biscuits for Schnoz, then feeds them to him, as he talks to his wife on the phone. 
Glass is dissecting the Mickey Mouse clock. 
POOCH No, honey, I'm fine. Yeah, well, you're welcome. You deserve flowers more often. 
Bev glances longingly at T.J. as she gives Glass a neck rub. 
GLASS Bev, you're the greatest... 
T.J. Hey, I'm next. 
T.J. winks as Bev turns away, hard to get. 
Reilly bursts in. 
BEV Hey, that's the guy- 
REILLY We just got a bomb threat upstairs. 
This gets everyone's attention. 
REILLY (cont.) A cop was killed last night interrupting a robbery. One of the gang was grabbed, a girl. The one I told you about with the detonation cord. Well, her friends just called in, they're threatening to waste people unless she's released in the next hour. 
GLASS Alright, let's check it out. 
REILLY We can start in the area where the robbery occurred. 
T.J. Vice cop on a homicide? 
REILLY Captain assigned me to assist you. 
POOCH Assist?   What the hell you know about tickers anyway? 
GLASS Easy, guys. (to Reilly) (MORE) 
GLASS (cont.) Look, nothing personal, but you can't just waltz in here and expect to join the team. 
REILLY What're you talking about? 
GLASS When you need us, you love us, when you don't, we're shunned by the rest of the department. 
REILLY We've got one hour.     Are you coming or not? 
The Squad just stands there. 
REILLY (cont.) Okay, fuck you. 
Reilly walks out.   The guys look at each other.   Glass frowns at the bracelet. 
T.J. Those vice cops, around all that pussy, so pent up. 
Earring walks out and strolls off. He checks his watch, picks up the pace. He disappears around a corner. 
Cars pass.   People stroll by.   Nothing happens. 
An ordinary scene on an ordinary day.     The silence is screaming. 
Suddenly - the bar EXPLODES. A FIREBALL BURSTS OUT the front window, showering the street with wood and BROKEN GLASS. 
22   EXT.   BAR - DAY - LATER                                          22 
Chaotic aftermath of the bombing... sirens, flashing red lights. Police hold back onlookers, Firemen clean up, Paramedics carry corpses and moaning Victims out of the charred, smoking ruins, into waiting ambulances. 
A black-and-white tears up. Capt. Winters leaps out, pushes through to a dirt-covered FIRE CHIEF. 
FIRE CHIEF Eight dead, so far. 
Winters looks grim. 
23   AT THE BARRICADE                                                  23 
Reilly SCREECHES up in his Studebaker, jumps out, pushes through, flashes his badge, enters the police zone. 
He stops as he sees a bloody FEMALE VICTIM being loaded into an ambulance. Suddenly a voice snaps him out of it. 
PLUCHINSKY What're you doing here? 
Reilly faces him. 
PLUCHINSKY (cont.) You're offsides. Beat it. 
Reilly ignores them, starts towards the ruins.    Pluchinsky shoves him back. 
PLUCHINSKY (cont.) I said get the fuck outta here. 
REILLY You touch me again and-- 
PLUCHINSKY And what, you'll shoot me? Hey, don't mistake me for one of your partners, I'd like to make retirement in one piece. 
Pluchinsky starts to laugh as Reilly pops him once hard in the face. Pluchinsky staggers backwards, grasping his bleeding nose. Reilly is ready for more as Pluchinsky starts at him. They exchange a few body shots before several cops swarm in and pull them apart. 
Winters hustles over. 
WINTERS What the hell's going on? 
PLUCHINSKY Son-of-a-bitch... my nose...   This fuck-up is interfering with- 
WINTERS Reilly, what're you doing here? 
REILLY Sir... 
WINTERS I thought I told you-- 
GLASS (O.C.) He's with us. 
They all turn. 
Glass and T.J. stand there, soot-smeared, wearing utility belts. 
GLASS (cont.) We asked him to come. 
T.J. Yeah, he's helping us work up a profile on this thing. 
GLASS Hope you don't mind, Captain, might help us catch these guys that much sooner. (to Reilly) Coming? 
GLASS Treat.    We treat devices. 
REILLY (amused) Anything else I should know? 
GLASS Don't push it, slick. 
Schnoz whines and paws at something under the beam.   They scramble over. 
T.J. Pooch, can you move it? 
POOCH I don't know... 
Pooch positions himself like a weight-lifter preparing to dead-lift. He growls as he strains to lift the beam out of the way. Glass and T.J. jump in and go to work with toothbrushes and tweezers. 
As Reilly watches, fascinated, they uncover a scorched fragment of a briefcase handle. 
T.J. Yes, baby, yes ... 
Pooch throws Schnoz the red ball. 
POOCH Good boy, Schnoz. Daddy loves you. 
T.J. Scorch marks... looks like they used silly putty. 
Reilly looks to Glass for an explanation. 
GLASS C4, plastic explosive. 
T.J. Helluva fuck factor. 
Reilly again looks for an explanation. 
T.J. (cont.) Don't worry, you'll pick it up. 
POOCH Hey, check this out? 
Something glitters in the ashes. Pooch picks it up with tweezers. A tiny chip. The guys stare at it, puzzled. 
GLASS Lemme see that. 
Glass takes it, puts on his magnifying spectacles, holds it up to the light, frowns. 
GLASS (cont.) Hardware. 
T.J. Computer device? 
GLASS Unlikely. Probably, cash register or something. 
Pooch and T.J. go back to searching. 
GLASS (cont.) What can you tell us about the girl with the exploding jewelry? 
Glass turns to see Reilly on his way out. 
REILLY I'll get back to you. 
25   INT.   POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY                              25 
Phones are ringing off the hook. Reilly bursts in, notices Winters directing an army of cops setting up sophisticated tracing equipment. 
WINTERS Let's go, we gotta jump on him the second he calls again. 
Reilly discreetly crosses the room but is intercepted by Pluchinsky. 
REILLY You remember me. 
Reilly shuts the door, she doesn't respond. The Girl catches a glimpse of his 9mm under his trenchcoat, she's unfazed. He paces, circling her. 
REILLY (cont.) You know, your boyfriend just killed a ten year old at a bus stop, blew her head clean off. 
The Girl puts up a good front but we can see she's listening. 
REILLY (cont.) You're scared. You're just caught in the middle. But, we've got a guy out there wasting people just to get you back. Why? It can't be because of your looks. So, I'll be honest with you - 
Reilly goes to the table, flicks off the mic. 
28   INT.   VIEWING BOOTH                                            28 
The Bored Cop doesn't notice, he's engrossed in his comic. 
29   INT.   INTERROGATION ROOM                                       29 
Reilly sits, the Girl eyes him like a trapped prey. They're enemies, yet there's a strange chemistry between them. 
REILLY Let me be very clear about this. The police won't let you go. When your boyfriend realizes this, I have a feeling a lot of innocent people are going to die. Kids, families. I know you don't want that to happen. 
She stares, eyes dark, barely registering any emotion at all. A flicker of fear, indecision. Her lips part, fighting it, then she looks away, letting the fear win. Reilly flushes with anger, frustration. 
30   INT.   THE CAVE - DAY                                           30 
Glass squints through a microscope. Pooch sniffs and fumbles dirt samples. T.J. rocks to a Walkman as he inspects the charred briefcase handle fragment. Bev is at her computer searching luggage websites on the Net. 
Reilly comes in, still frustrated. 
POOCH We missed you, where'd you go? 
Before Reilly can answer, T.J. rips off his headphones. 
T.J. Fuckin A, I think I got two partial prints here! 
POOCH Awright!   How bout you, Glass, how's that chip shaking? 
They all look over.   Glass stares back darkly. 
T.J. Glass, what is it? 
GLASS I was wrong... this didn't come from any cash register. 
POOCH Whadaya mean? 
GLASS It's from an IRA. 
POOCH Oh shit... 
REILLY A what? 
T.J. IRA - instant retirement account. 
GLASS I.R.A. device. Deadliest class of tickers in existence. Computerized, multiple sensors, booby traps, the works. First showed up in a series of I.R.A. bombings in London couple years ago. One of their boys tripped it on himself and they went back to a less complicated timers. The Girl, is she Irish? 
REILLY She's not talking. But, she could be. So, obviously, you've seen one of these devices before? 
GLASS Only once, at Redstone. 
REILLY Where...? 
T.J. That's one more time than any of the rest of us have seen it. 
REILLY You mentioned something called Redstone. 
GLASS Redstone's the army training center in Alabama where they send the cream of the crop to learn about tickers. 
REILLY Cream of the crop, huh?   You? 
GLASS (nods) Top of my class at West Point, thank you very much. Then off to Redstone. First half of the course we learned how to build devices... second half, we'd take them apart. Everything from firecrackers to hydrogen bombs. 
REILLY Sounds like terrorist heaven. 
GLASS There were a few guys in my class with names like John Smith, Bill Jones. I'd see them up ahead in the hall, call their name, but they wouldn't turn around. C.I.A. Funny thing, they'd always disappear after the first half of the course. 
REILLY Just how easy is it to build a... device? 
GLASS With a little training, you could go into a house and just from stuff in the bathroom and kitchen make something that'd finish off that alleged car of yours. Heck, didn't you ever watch MacGyver? 
Reilly looks at Glass strangely until he realizes they've stopped where Rice died. 
GLASS (cont.) So this is where it happened. 
Reilly fights the memory... eyes well up, his hand trembles ever so slightly as he points out... 
REILLY Girl was here. The guy in charge was over there with one of his men, the other one was back there. 
Glass gets down on his hands and knees, scans the floor. Reilly talks to distract himself. 
REILLY (cont.) Bombers, what kettle of fish are they? 
GLASS Typical profile, usually losers, nobodies that're afraid to confront their victims. They like scaring people. That's why they call in their threats. Same mentality as obscene phone callers. 
REILLY Except they'll blow you up if you don't play along. 
GLASS No, ninety-ninety percent of them are full of baloney. They're into the power trip, not the damage. What scares me is that this guy is so sophisticated he could blow up whatever he wants, then disappear. The worst of the bunch, they love the challenge of creating the wildest device ever... and they love the carnage. 
Glass lays out flat on his stomach and searches deep under a machine, picks up a half-smoked cigarette butt with tweezers, pulls it out, kneels. 
GLASS (cont.) Hello. 
Glass straightens it out, reads the brand name, "Gallois". 
GLASS (cont.) French. Doubt somebody who worked here smoked it. Only half gone, put it out in a hurry. (glances around) (MORE) 
GLASS (cont.) Figuring the length, assuming it was one of these guys, odds are... it was lit outside. 
Glass takes off.   Reilly follows. 
35   EXT.   MACHINE SHIP - GARAGE - AFTERNOON                         35 
Glass and Reilly search the area.    Glass moves on his knees, aiming the flashlight. 
GLASS This is where the van was parked. 
REILLY Yep. 
GLASS Then, it's gotta be here somewhere ... 
REILLY Look, it's a longshot... 
GLASS Bingo! 
Glass pinches something with his tweezers, holds it up triumphantly... a used match. 
CLOSE UP - MATCH UNDER MICROSCOPE 
A busy Saturday afternoon crowd. Rock music blasts, reverberating with the echo of crashing balls and pins. The lanes are teeming with sweating bodies. Sexy waitresses in skimpy outfits deliver drinks. 
T.J. ogles women as they wander through. 
T.J. So what're we looking for? 
REILLY Someone who smokes French cigarettes. 
T.J. In this crowd? It's gonna be Marlboros, Camels, and maybe a few Kools. 
Reilly and Glass nod, knowing it's a longshot. 
Reilly directs Glass and T.J. to split up to case the place. 
They move through the rowdy crowd, eyes catching every smoker. 
39   INT. BOWLING ALLEY - POOL ROOM/BAR - LATER                     39 
The music is more redneck-rock, the crowd as well. 
Glass and T.J. are in the midst of game of pool, nursing bottles of Root Beer. They continue to play while eyeing those coming and going. 
Reilly enters from the alley, catches Glass' eye and shakes his head. He goes to the bar and orders a coke. 
He takes the drink and moves over next to Glass as T.J. lines up a shot. 
GLASS How long are we going to stay? 
REILLY `Til we get a better lead. 
Reilly's attention is drawn to a crowded booth in the corner where a few bowling alley girls block the view of the entire booth. 
Glass nudges Reilly, they look over to see Pooch entering the bar. He sees them and moves to the bar. T.J. sinks his shot and lines up another as Reilly and Glass move to meet Pooch. 
Pooch produces a printout from his jacket, opens it up. 
POOCH Unsolved bombings in the last year... Boston, New York, Philadelphia... but no real match 
REILLY Insurance? 
GLASS Political. 
POOCH Exactly my thinking. Except, none of the targets can actually be linked to government, political or special interest concerns. They seem to be just unrelated industrial companies.   Some insured, some not. (MORE) 
POOCH (cont.) But there's traces of C4 and assorted inflammatory additives found in each case. The only common denominator is the detonators all had circuitry consistent with our micro- chip. 
GLASS Not bad for Bomb squad, eh? 
REILLY What not bad. You've got a series of bombs, devices, that may or may not be connected, set by one or many nutjobs, who may or may not be linked. 
GLASS Right. 
REILLY Well... it's more than we had ten minutes ago. 
POOCH I got a friend over at Scotland Yard who's gonna try and reach out to a undercover guy who would know if any of the rightwingers are circulating over here. Bev's following up on the briefcase manufacturers, too. 
T.J. comes over. 
T.J. Pooch, you're up.    Rack `em. 
They look over to the pool table to see only the cue ball left. 
T.J. (cont.) Boss, you're buying the next round. 
Reilly draws his 9mm, aims thru the pedestrian--and fires. 
Earring is blown off his feet... 
He hits the pavement hard... 
41   INT.   BAR                                                     41 
Reilly enters and sees Glass, TJ and Pooch gathered around the booth in back. 
REILLY Say, thanks for the back up-- 
The bomb squad ignores Reilly, who now realizes something is wrong. He pushes his way through the bar patrons to the booth. 
Glass glances up at Reilly. 
GLASS He set one, the son-of-a... 
TJ and Pooch exchange looks--they've never heard Glass so close to swearing before. 
T.J. notices a small crowd starting to gather around the booth. 
T.J. (calmly) Clear the area, please. 
Nobody moves. 
REILLY (loudly) You heard him, get the fuck away, it's a bomb! 
That does it, the crowds shriek and scatter. 
Rolling eyes at each other, the Bomb Squaders turn their attention to the shopping bag sitting on the floor. 
GLASS Alright.   Let's assess. 
The team eyes the package for a moment... 
Glass makes a determination, whips out a knife, slashes the bag open, revealing a computerized nightmare of a bomb inside.   T.J. rubs his temples with dread. 
TJ IRA. 
Glass puts on his magnifying spectacles, starts to probe. 
Reilly returns. 
Pooch tests hinges with his tweezers. T.J. hands Glass a crimp. Pooch pries off a back panel, fingers shaking, lifts it every so slightly, sees complex circuitry inside, the red glow of a digital readout counting down. 
POOCH Oh shit... 
T.J. Fuck factor ten. 
GLASS Okay, I'm going in, nobody breathe. 
Synchronizing his chronometer to the counter, Glass begins disengaging sensor switches. 
GLASS (cont.) Altimeter... choking coil... mercury switch... 
He clips off circuits and booby traps with bloodcurdling care, peeling away layer after layer of death... shakes his head with awe, respect, fear. 
GLASS (cont.) Triple V.O.M... brilliant... this guy's a master... 
Finally he comes to the heart of the bomb, a pair of tiny wires leading to the blasting cap, one yellow, one red. Precious seconds tick away. 
GLASS (cont.) It's one of these wires. 
Pooch scribbles down an address on a scrap of paper from the device's shopping bag, hands it to Reilly, offering a smile. 
POOCH In case you change your mind. 
Reilly looks at it awkwardly, then walks away as a News van arrives on the scene... 
43   EXT./INT. DOWNTOWN - STUDEBAKER - EARLY EVENING                43 
Reilly cruises into the bowels of downtown.    Makes a few turns and parks. 
In the shadows of a burned out building, Reilly observes several JUNKIES getting a fix from their CONNECTION. 
Reilly watches with scared, tempted eyes. 
He looks at his hands... they're trembling... catches his reflection in the rear view mirror. Checks Rice's watches on his wrist, taps it. Still not ticking. Ashamed, he screeches away. 
44   INT. POLICE STATION - OFFICE - NIGHT                           44 
A quiet Squad Room. Reilly bangs out something on a computer terminal. He blazes away, typing as fast as he can. He holds out his hands. Almost steady. He takes a drink from a Protein Shake, returns to typing. 
45   INT.   WINTERS' OFFICE - NIGHT                                 45 
A weary Winters looks up from coffee and paperwork as Reilly knocks, walks in. Reilly drops a sheaf of papers on his desk. 
WINTERS What's this? 
REILLY Report on the case so far. 
WINTERS You know after a shooting I would normally take your badge and weapon, but Glass called in already and confirmed it was clean. 
REILLY Yes, sir. 
WINTERS But from now on, any leads on this case go to Pluchinsky. He's primary investigator and you are unofficially assigned to the Bomb Squad... you and your new friends are not to be playing detective any more. Got it? 
Reilly nods, accepting. 
WINTERS (cont.) I imagine as soon as they find out one of their's is dead, we'll be getting another call. So get some sleep, alright. 
Reilly nods, turns and exits. 
46   INT.   SUNCREST MOTEL - ROOM - NIGHT                           46 
TIGHT on a TV - a pretty Reporter reports live from the scene... 
REPORTER To recap, a gunman carrying what police described as a phony bomb was shot and killed less than an hour ago. 
THE ROOM 
Swan watches the TV report with Beard, eyes narrowing as he sees Reilly in the crowd behind the Reporter. 
REPORTER (cont.) While the man's motives and identity remain a mystery, police are denying the incident is related to the explosion that ripped through a bar earlier today, killing 15 and wounding more than 30... 
Swan kicks in the TV, destroying it. 
BEARD She talked. 
Swan flips open a suitcase full of bomb-making materials and begins to sort through... 
47   EXT.   POOCH'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                   47 
Quiet, cozy, middle class. The Harley and the Bomb Squad van are parked out front. Also the Studebaker. 
48   INT.   POOCH'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT                         48 
Reilly throws Glass a surprised look. 
49   EXT.   POOCH'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING                           49 
Sunrise breaking. Reilly and Glass have their heads under the hood of the Studebaker, covered in grease, tools everywhere. T.J. sits behind the wheel. Pooch and Schnoz stumble out of the house to watch. 
REILLY Okay, hit it. 
T.J. guns the engine, the Studebaker purrs like a tiger. 
GLASS Alright! 
T.J. We've created a monster. 
Glass glances at Pooch. 
GLASS Any word? 
POOCH Nothing.    Maybe they gave up, split town. 
REILLY Don't bet on it. 
50   EXT. POLICE STATION - MORNING                                   50 
Bustling activity... 
51   INT. THE CAVE - MORNING                                         51 
Reilly enters to find Glass, Bev, T.J. and Pooch busy at work at each of their work stations. Glass moves over to watch Bev's computer screen. 
REILLY How's the print coming? 
BEV One partial from the handle matches the suspect from last night. Name's Carl Taylor. Long record of arson, assault, the works. The other print - we got nothing from our data base or the FBI or CIA... still waiting for Interpol. 
REILLY Damn. 
Bev enters another command... the computer goes to work as she turns to Reilly. 
BEV Coffee, Mike? 
REILLY No thanks, Bev. 
She smiles warmly. He smiles back, T.J. eyes them, slightly jealous of the moment. 
A phone rings.   Bev answers it... 
BEV Yes, sir.   He's here.   I'll tell him. 
Bev hangs up the phone. 
BEV (cont.) Mike, Captain wants to see you right away. 
Reilly heads for the door. 
52   INT.   POLICE HEADQUARTERS - MORNING                            52 
A strange, uncomfortable silence hangs over the squad room as Reilly weaves past cops smoking, drinking coffee, waiting. They all stare at him. Especially Pluchinsky. 
53   INT.   WINTERS' OFFICE - MORNING                                53 
Reilly walks in. Winters gestures for him to take a seat as he talks on the phone. 
WINTERS Yes ... no, of course not but ... yes, sir, I understand. 
Reilly rises and moves to her.   Their eyes linger a moment, a bond between them. 
REILLY Then why tell me? 
MARY People are dying. 
Reilly nods and touches her shoulder, a light squeeze.   He turns and exits. 
55   EXT.   SUNCREST MOTEL - ROOM 138 - DAY                           55 
An army of cops and squad cars out front, Pluchinsky silently directs a SWAT team to the door. Reilly and the Bomb Squad watch from a distance as they break down the door. 
SHOUTING, mayhem as the team floods into the room. Pluchinsky brings up the rear. After a beat, Pluchinsky re- emerges, shaking his head. 
AT THE FAR END OF THE MOTEL 
Swan and Beard watch from behind a car. Beard gives Swan a dirty look and they quietly move off around the corner. 
AT THE BOMB SQUAD VAN 
Reilly and Glass are visibly disappointed. 
As the others grumble about it, Reilly notices someone across the street - the Bag Lady with the pie-tin crown, holding her hand out to a MAN getting into his car. The Man ignores her, screeches off. The Bag Lady scribbles down his license number in her pad. Glass follows Reilly's stare. 
GLASS Ex-girlfriend? 
REILLY Be right back. 
Reilly crosses the street, intercepts the Bag Lady as she's pushing her cart away. 
REILLY (cont.) Excuse me... I'm looking for two men who were staying at the hotel over there - one has a beard, the other's tall, thin. You wouldn't happen to have seen them, would you? 
BAG LADY No. 
REILLY No, of course not... well, thanks anyway. Here you go, Your Highness. 
He fishes some change out of his pocket, hands it over, starts away. 
BAG LADY On second thought, maybe I did. 
He turns back. The Bag Lady flips through her pad, stabs an entry with her finger. 
BAG LADY Lemme see... yeah, here it is, 11:18 this morning. Very disrespectful. He used to drive a van, but he got a new car. You want the license number? 
She tears off the page, holds it out. 
REILLY You're beautiful! 
Reilly gives her a big kiss, races back to the Bomb Squad who've been watching. 
REILLY We're back in business! 
They all look at him like he's nuts. 
56   INT.   POLICE SQUAD ROOM - DAY                                56 
Buzzing with action.   Harry and Pluchinsky attack Winters with printouts. 
HARRY Ran the license plate - car was rented early this morning from a Hertz office downtown. 
PLUCHINSKY Alex Swan - demolitions expert, trained at Redstone, dropped out, freelanced in the middle East for awhile, then disappeared, no criminal record. The other one, Leveau, is French Canadian, he's a mercenary, record in half a dozen countries. 
WINTERS Get out an APB, now! 
Beard speeds around another corner, the lumbering Van has difficulty keeping up and loses sight of the Grenada for a moment. 
66   EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DAY                                       66 
The Grenada speeds up, heading towards the Police Station up ahead. 
The Bomb Squad Van appears and speeds up. 
ON THE SIDEWALK 
Swan stands discreetly in a phone booth, watching as... 
ON THE STREET 
Beard steers towards a parked Squad Car next to the Station - on collision course. At the last second, Beard dives from the moving car, hits the pavements and rolls. 
The Grenada CRASHES into the Squad Car... but no explosion. 
The Bomb Squad Van SKIDS to a stop as two uniformed Officers rush out of the Station. 
Beard has rolled to his feet and is now sprinting off down the street. 
Pooch and T.J. jump out of the Van (leaving a BARKING Schnoz inside) and sprint towards the Grenada, guns drawn. Pooch is quickly huffing and puffing. T.J. continues after Beard as Pooch moves towards the Grenada. The uniforms follow T.J. 
Glass on his Harley appears from behind the Van. At the far end of the street the Studebaker rumbles into view, followed by a Squad Car, lights flashing. Everyone closing in on Beard. 
T.J. aims and yells at Beard. 
T.J. Police, freeze! 
Beard whirls around, SPRAYING automatic weapon FIRE at T.J. and the Uniforms - they hit the pavement. 
A few nearby Pedestrians SCREAM and drop to the ground. 
Reilly jumps out of his Studebaker as Beard turns his FIRE on him, BLOWING OUT his windshield. 
Back at the Grenada, Pooch ducks for cover by the open driver's door. 
Glass runs his Harley behind a parked car. 
The Squad Car behind Reilly SKIDS to a stop and as Beard shifts his aim, T.J. and Reilly each PUMP TWO SHOTS into Beard's torso. 
Beard spins around, drops - dead silence on the street. Relief all around. Everyone stands back up. T.J.'s jaw drops at the sight of actually having hit the suspect with his bullets. 
AT THE GRENADA 
Pooch exhales in relief, then hears BEEPING coming from the front seat of the car. He looks in to see the briefcase open, countdown ticking away. 
POOCH Oh... damn. 
KA-BOOOOOM!!! 
The Grenada explodes in a massive FIRE-BALL, throwing nearby Glass off his feet. Everyone else drops back to the ground, covering their heads. 
DOWN THE STREET - AT THE PHONE BOOTH 
Swan grins and walks away down an alley. 
We can hear the CRY of Schnoz, WAILING from the front seat of Van. 
67   INT.   POLICE STATION - WINTERS' OFFICE - EARLY EVENING         67 
Reilly stares off into space. Surreal silence, like a dream... Reilly looks at his watch, keeps his eyes low as he steals a glance at Glass in the other chair, face wracked with pain, loss. 
Then just as Swan whooshes out, a charge EXPLODES a stack of 55 gallon drums. They fall down into the path of the pursuers who crash into the FLAMING DRUMS. 
The lead car EXPLODES... 
83   EXT./INT. STREET - CAMERO - MOVING - DAY                       83 
Mary looks back in horror as she's whisked away. 
84   INT.   DOWNTOWN BAR - DAY                                      84 
Dark, filthy, last stop to nowhere. 
85   INT.   BACK HALLWAY                                            85 
Drunk, dejected, looking like shit, Reilly waits for a fix with a couple other JUNKIES. The TV in the bar drones in the background. 
The Dealer appears and gestures to Reilly. 
DEALER C'mon, cowboy, you're next. 
Reilly trudges over. 
DEALER Okay, what's it gonna be? I got China White, Snow Flake, Ivory Pearl... 
Reilly looks up sharply as he hears the TV, visible through the doorway. 
REPORTER ON TV We're coming to you live near the scene of that latest, explosion that ripped through a downtown alley less than half an hour ago. 
Something clears behind Reilly' eyes. 
DEALER (impatient) Hey, asshole ... 
REPORTER ON TV Despite growing fears and talk of a coverup, police have sealed off the area and are refusing to comment about fatalities, or the rumor that terrorists may be involved. 
Reilly's eyes shift, mind racing. 
DEALER Hey, I'm talking to you-- 
Suddenly himself again, Reilly bolts up, sending the Dealer and his equipment scattering, and streaks off. He bursts out of the front door of the bar into the glare of sunlight... we can hear SIRENS not too far off. 
86   INT.   STUDEBAKER - MOVING - DAY                                86 
Driving like a maniac as usual, Reilly grabs the radio mike with one hand, pulls his back-up .357 out of the glove-box. 
He listens out the window for the SIRENS, he looks up at the sound of approaching HELICOPTERS. 
87   EXT.   GAS STATION - DAY                                        87 
In the service bay, a MECHANIC raises the black Camaro on a hydraulic lift, out of sight from the street. 
Out front, Swan pays an ATTENDANT, climbs into an orange U- Haul truck with Mary, drives off. 
A beat, a squad car and an unmarked speed past the Gas Station. 
88   EXT./INT.   STREETS - U-HAUL - MOVING                          88 
Swan brushes Mary's hair from her face. 
SWAN You hungry?     We could get something to eat. 
Mary shakes her head, scared. 
SWAN What's the matter? 
Swan grabs Mary, dragging her with him.   A pair of TEENAGE BOYS on skateboards notice, veer over. 
BOY Hey--? 
Swan whips out his Mac-11. The Boys skate for cover as Swan drags Mary back to the U-Haul. 
The open back door reveals a number of 55 gallon drums, some boxes and two milk crates of C4. He SLAMS down the sliding door, moves around front and shoves Mary inside. 
90   INT.   STUDEBAKER - MOVING - DAY                                90 
Caught in traffic, map spread out in his lap, Reilly slams on his horn. 
REILLY C'mon, move it. 
His police radio crackles. 
DISPATCHER VOICE All units, 211 reported at 8th and Sycamore. Suspect is a Caucasian male, armed with an automatic weapon, last seen heading east with female hostage in a U-Haul truck ... 
Reilly perks up, checks his map. 
Jamming the wheel, he crashes out of traffic, ripping the bumper off the car in front of him, and rockets away. 
He grabs his mic, thinks, disguises his voice. 
REILLY Dispatch, this is Reilly. 
DISPATCHER VOICE Go ahead. 
REILLY Patch me through to the Bomb Squad. 
DISPATCHER VOICE Aren't you on suspension? 
REILLY Just do it. 
DISPATCHER VOICE Hang on. 
Reilly runs a red. 
T.J.'S VOICE T.J. here. 
REILLY T.J., it's Reilly, put Glass on! 
91   EXT./INT. STREET - BOMB SQUAD VAN - MOVING - DAY            91 
T.J. is in the passenger seat, Bev sits in the back with Schnoz, Glass drives. Glass takes the mic. 
GLASS What's up? 
INTERCUT WITH REILLY 
REILLY Where you guys at? 
GLASS Driving in circles, waiting for- 
REILLY Catch that alert? That's him in the U-Haul. 
GLASS How do you know? 
REILLY Cuz he got the girl, now he's leaving town. 
GLASS Should we head for the Interstate? 
REILLY Would you? 
