TIN CUP Written by JOHN NORVILLE and RON SHELTON 
December 1995 Draft 
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 
TINNY CHEATIN' HEART MUSIC, the dull GROAN of a TRACTOR, CRICKETS CHIRPIN' love songs, sporadic ZAPS from BUG LIGHTS, and an occasional random THWOCK as we -- 
FADE IN: 
1   EXT. TEXAS - DRAMATIC ANGLE - SUNSET                        1 
Out west where the sun descends gloriously over desolate mountains. A sense of timeless and incorruptible beauty if you ignore the TWANG of the MUSIC, the SPUTTER of the TRACTOR, the ZAPS, the THWACKS... and something else... 
... MEN'S VOICES.   Garrulous with drink, fraternity and amusement. 
We PAN DOWN TO: 
2   EXT. DRIVING RANGE - LATE DAY                               2 
A man, JOSE, is on the roof, wrestling with a rickety satellite dish, stringing wire, trying to get it to work. (We get glimpses of him throughout the scene as he struggles with what is assuredly a pirate operation.) 
Four of six floodlights nailed to the roof cast pools of yellow into the gathering darkness. ROY "TIN CUP" McAVOY stands under the swarm of moths crowding the brightest light, hitting golf balls. THWOCK...! Launching them, really, into the deepening night. There's a beer between his legs. Behind him: 
A group of men forms a semicircle, facing away from Tin Cup. These men are the range regulars: CURT, CLINT, EARL, and DEWEY. Each man has money in one hand and his preferred libation in the other. They're all looking back and forth between the bug lights hung on the back wall, and muttering what sounds like bets to: 
ROMEO POSAR -- a smaller man, he stands at the center of the group with a handful of cash. Romeo is a part-time bookie and full-time driving range man. Born across the river in Mexico, Romeo is Tin Cup's caddie, confidante, best friend. 
ROMEO Okay, all bets are down! 
Their eyes rivet on the bug lights, edgy, hopeful, until... ZAP! A BUG is ELECTROCUTED. And Dewey cheers triumphantly while the other regulars mutter curses about how they woulda, coulda, shoulda bet. 
ROMEO Number one is the winner! Dewey has the winner. Pays five to two! 
Romeo quickly pays Dewey and more quickly takes money from the losers. It's fast-paced, inane, time-killing gambling. Tin Cup looks over. 
TIN CUP Don't you shitheels ever get bored? 
The regulars flap dismissive palms and mutter in the negative as they turn back to Romeo and the action at the bug lights. 
TIN CUP ... 'Cuz I got a riddle. 
Tin Cup leads the regulars inside. 
CUT TO: 
A3   INT. DRIVING RANGE - LATE DAY                                A3 
Tin Cup holds court. 
TIN CUP Takes about two ounces of brains to figure it out. Anyone think they got a brain with two ounces of brains in it? 
The regulars silently look at each other, reluctant to reveal the heft of their brains. 
TIN CUP For Chrissakes, boys! A little self-confidence from the players' gallery. We ain't talking long division. 
EARL (timidly) How much we gotta lose? 
TIN CUP You want to liven things up, Earl? That's a hell of an idea. Say everyone puts in twenty bucks and the pot goes to whoever solves the riddle. 
DEWEY You going to get the riddle, Tin Cup? 
TIN CUP (patiently) Dewey. I'm the one asking the riddle. I already know the answer. I don't getta guess. Although... We could say if I get to five hundred bounces and no one gets the riddle, I get the pot. And I know what you're thinking. It's an impossible riddle. Well, It's not. It's an easy riddle. And if somehow by the grace of fluke luck I win, and you all don't agree it was an easy riddle, hell, I'll refund your money. 
EARL, CLINT & ALL I'm in... We're in... Count us in... etc... 
TIN CUP Okay, a man's driving down the road with his son and they get in a crash. Two ambulances come and take the man and his son to different hospitals. Son goes into the operating room, the doctor looks at him and says, 'I can't operate on this boy. He's my son.' How's that possible? (beat) The clock's ticking boys... 
Tin Cup begins bouncing a ball on the face of his wedge. 
EARL Father didn't sneak back in, right? He's still at the other hospital? 
TIN CUP It ain't 'Star Trek,' Earl.   No one beamed him aboard. 
That eliminates the most plausible theory in their minds. The men think harder. 
EARL Well... if the father married the son's daughter -- 
TIN CUP It's a family riddle, Earl.   Think clean thoughts. 
The regulars puzzle some more. 
CLINT Give us a little hint. 
MOLLY (O.S.) The doctor's a woman. 
All heads turn to take in the arrival of: 
3   MOLLY GRISWOLD                                             3 
Standing just inside the door -- she's a fresh-faced beauty in her early thirties, and she's got all new everything the sport of golf requires: new bag, new clubs, new shoes, new clothes, new visor... she looks like she stepped out of an ad in Golf Digest. And all the men are asking themselves the same question: what's she doing here? The silence invites Molly to supply the riddle's answer. 
MOLLY The doctor is the son's mother. Feminists pose the riddle to reveal how deeply our sexual stereotypes run. (directly to Tin Cup) I take it you're a feminist? 
Tin Cup misses the ball he's been bouncing, breaking the spell. The regulars wait for Tin Cup's response. 
TIN CUP Ma'am, I've been called a lot of things -- but no one's ever saddled me with that one. 
MOLLY You might try being saddled sometime -- the smell of leather, the sting of a whip... 
TIN CUP Some say it's because that's the best way to play through the winds of West Texas... and some say it's because I never finish anything. You can decide. The point is every finishing position is unique as if that is the signature left to the artist, the warrior athlete who, 
finally and thereby, has asserted his oneness with and power over the universe by willing a golf ball to go where he wants and how and when, because that is what the golf swing is about... (finally) It is about gaining control of your life, and letting go at the same time. 
Molly stares back, exhausted and intrigued. 
MOLLY Jeez Louise... 
TIN CUP There is only one other acceptable theory of how to hit a golf ball. 
MOLLY I'm afraid to ask. What's the other theory? 
TIN CUP Grip it and rip it. 
MOLLY While I appreciate your poetic sensibility, Mr. McAvoy -- 
TIN CUP Call me Roy, Molly... 
MOLLY Call me Dr. Griswold... 
MOLLY (CONT'D) Roy... but at this point I think I'm more of the 'grip it and rip it' school. Hand me the driver. 
Tin Cup does.   She tees it up. 
TIN CUP Waggle it, Doc, don't forget to waggle. (as she stares at him) Waggle... the club head... (shows her) ... it's a little relaxing ritual... 
She waggles the club head, then takes the club back. 
TIN CUP Let the Big Dog eat! 
She stops, lets the club fall. 
MOLLY What Big Dog? 
TIN CUP The driver, the number one wood -- 
MOLLY It's metal. 
TIN CUP Yeah, woods are metal -- don't worry about it -- and the driver's known as the Big Dog and I'm just saying to turn him loose, let 'er rip, let the Big Dog eat! 
MOLLY Oh. 
She swings.   Tops the ball.   It goes ten feet. 
MOLLY This is, without a doubt, the stupidest, silliest, most idiotic grotesquery masquerading as a game that has ever been invented. 
TIN CUP (cheerfully) Yes, ma'am, that's why I love it. (beat) And if you hit one good shot -- if that tuning fork rings in your loin -- you can't wait to get back. 
She cracks one dead solid perfect out into the night.   It felt great and she knows it. 
MOLLY I think the Big Dog ate something. 
TIN CUP Did the tuning fork ring in your loin? 
MOLLY I wouldn't go that far. 
TIN CUP Always quit on a good shot. We'll call that lesson number one... 
(confidentially) ... and if ya wouldn't mind paying me in cash -- there's a little I.R.S. situation I'm dealing with 
MOLLY If you're such a legendary striker of the golf ball as everyone says, then why are you, at your age, out here in the middle of nowhere operating a barely solvent establishment, ducking the I.R.S., collecting a few pathetic dollars to buy your next sixpack -- when you're capable of so much more? 
Her speech is delivered without judgement or rancor, so matter of factly that he's disarmed. 
TIN CUP Perhaps I'm chocked full of inner demons? 
MOLLY No, you're chocked full of bullshit -- (cheerily) Same time next week? 
She heads off to the parking lot.    He stares. 
TIN CUP What did you mean I should try 'being saddled' sometime? 
TIN CUP (CONT'D) Were you being literal or was that some kind of Freudian type deal? Molly? Doctor? (beat) What kind of saddle? 
CLOSE ON MOLLY 
As she walks into the West Texas night.    She smiles, enjoying Tin Cup's confusion. 
Tin Cup just stares into the night, holding his cash, until JOSE'S VOICE ECHOES down from the roof. 
JOSE I got it!   Esta bien!    The flag is up! 
CUT TO: 
7   INT. DRIVING RANGE SHACK - NIGHT                           7 
Tin Cup enters, cash in hand, as the regulars all gather excitedly around the TV monitor now coming in. 
TIN CUP A class act there, boys -- probably the first actual `lady type' female ever seen on these premises -- 
ROMEO Shut up, boss -- we got the Corpus Christi dog track on the dish -- 
EARL This is yer dead mortal cinch lock bet with Do-reen. 
Everyone's glued to the set. A greyhound race comes on from a remote Texas track on the gulf. 
TIN CUP Free money, boys, what does Doreen know about the fine art of Greyhound breeding? 
ROMEO All she knows is she likes the three dog 'cause his name is Pride of Odessa 'cause she's from Odessa. 
ROMEO You're looking particularly lovely this evening -- This is nicer than the leopard suit -- 
DOREEN Cut the horseshit, guys. So... the one and two dogs always run wide and the three dog always breaks slow, so I figure there's gonna be a big ol' pile of fur at the turn and the three dog's gonna tiptoe around it and walk on home... I was right. (smiles) You owe me twelve thousand dollars. 
ROMEO We going to pay you. 
Tin Cup squirms as Doreen babbles a bit. 
DOREEN I know you're going to pay me. 
DOREEN (CONT'D) (admiring her own outfit) Y'know I finally got rid of the leopard suit thing -- it was so retro, y'know... it's not easy being a post-modern stripper... (beat) So... twelve big ones? 
Tin Cup finally digs into his coat pocket and produces some official-looking papers. He hands them to her. 
TIN CUP There. With equity and inventory it's worth twelve grand... more or less. 
Doreen leans forward to examine the papers.    She looks at Tin Cup with surprise. 
DOREEN This is how you think you can settle up? By deeding me your driving range? 
TIN CUP Only on condition you don't sell right away, and me'n Romeo keep our jobs. 
DOREEN What in the world would I want with your stupid driving range? 
TIN CUP Equity, inventory, cash flow... not to mention an enhanced stature in the community, and prepaid membership in the Salome Chamber of Commerce. 
For a moment, Doreen can only stare dumbly at Tin Cup, caught off guard by this unexpected turn of fortune. Then she starts to consider the idea more seriously. 
DOREEN What are your labor costs? (off no response from Tin Cup) Payroll, Roy. What do you pay 
your help? 
TIN CUP Let's see... the tractor kid gets five bucks an hour. Romeo, he gets ten cash -- 
DOREEN What do you pay yourself? 
TIN CUP Myself? 
Doreen nods in a way Tin Cup finds threatening. 
DOREEN To hit golf balls all day... when you're not breaking for beers or corn dogs or to gather the guys and lay bets on which crow flies off the fence next. 
TIN CUP You're referring to my managerial salary? 
DOREEN I'm referring to every nickel you snatch out of the till and every bag of beer nuts you lift from the rack, is what I'm referring to. (beat) I'll say it's worth ten and you still owe me two. 
She smiles, he sighs. 
CUT TO: 
11   EXT. PAWN SHOP - MORNING                                   11 
Tin Cup parks his big old red Cadillac convertible out front. He goes around to the trunk, opens it, takes out his golf clubs, and carries them into the pawn shop. 
CUT TO: 
12   EXT. DRIVING RANGE - RIDGE - PARKED WINNEBAGO - MORNING    12 
Tin Cup's domicile, parked near a slow-moving river. The red Cadillac is parked out front next to Romeo's Mercury Comet. 
ROMEO (V.O.) (with horror, inside 
the Winnebago) You hocked your golf clubs?! 
A13   INT. WINNEBAGO - DAY                                      A13 
Tin Cup sits on the couch, swigging Maalox. 
TIN CUP I still got two grand to pay off. And I can't see my new salary of seven bucks an hour plus lessons getting it done. 
ROMEO But your clubs are your livelihood. 
TIN CUP Well the hood ain't too lively at the moment. 
A CAR HORN SOUNDS from outside. 
TIN CUP Whoever it is, tell 'em I'm in Houston on business. 
Romeo opens the door, and steps outside. 
ROMEO David Simms!   What you doing in town? 
Romeo steps outside to greet Simms.   Warily. 
CUT TO: 
13    EXT. WINNEBAGO - DAY                                      13 
Romeo and Simms under the awning.   A spiffy new car parked nearby. 
DAVID SIMMS, 38, looking every bit like the successful tour pro he is... Payne Stewart to Tin Cup's Maynard G. Krebs. 
SIMMS Romeo! It's been awhile.    Is Tin Cup around? 
Romeo is evasive. 
ROMEO He's on business in Houston... You supposed to be out playin' on the golf tour. 
SIMMS (unfazed) Well, you tell him I'm in town for my big charity best-ball tournament, and I got a spot for him when he comes back from... whatever. 
SIMMS Like I told you, it was more'n you had in the bag. 
STADLER Yeah, well... I had to go for it after your caddy said he could get home from here. 
Simms swivels his head around to look at Tin Cup. 
TIN CUP I could. 
Simms looks away, at the shot he's facing: a two hundred fifteen yard carry over water. He looks back at Tin Cup, shaking his head. 
SIMMS I gotta hand it to you, Roy. For fifteen holes you've seemed to grasp the concept here: I'm trying to win and your job is to help me. 
TIN CUP Five percent of your earnings does numb the gag reflex. 
SIMMS Give me the seven iron.   I'm laying up. 
TIN CUP You can make that shot. 
SIMMS The smart play's to lay up. 
TIN CUP These fans didn't pay thirty bucks to watch a tour star lay up on a short par five. 
SIMMS I'm sitting on a two shot lead with three to go, and my partner's in his pocket. Suddenly, par's a good number. Gimme the seven Iron. 
TIN CUP No way. You're going for the green. These fans paid good money to see golf shots they can't hit, not golf shots they feel shitty about themselves for having to hit. 
Simms reaches for the seven iron.   Tin Cup clamps a hand over the club. 
TIN CUP Thirteen years on tour and you're still a pussy. Hit the fucking one iron, Dave. 
SIMMS Thirteen years in a driving range and you still think this game's about your testosterone count. 
Simms removes Tin Cup's hand from the seven iron and grabs the club, stepping up to address the ball. Tin Cup mutters to the gallery. 
TIN CUP Two-fifteen to carry, and the tour star's laying up. 
And the remark summons gallery voices suddenly urging Simms to go for the green. Simms motions for Tin Cup, as 
if reconsidering. 
SIMMS But if you're gonna editorialize, do it on the other side of the ropes. I got no qualms about firing your ass right here, right now. 
TIN CUP Fire me?   Hell, I should fire you. 
Simms steps back to his ball with the seven iron, and: 
16   Stadler's still standing back where he hit the shot into  16 the lake. MICKELSON and GARY McCORD, the other team in the pairing, are there with him. Romeo, Stadler's caddie, stands just behind them. 
McCORD (to Mickelson) I know you could knock it on from here, I'm just saying that caddie's been drinking muddy water if he thinks he can. 
ROMEO He can. 
All the players look at Romeo as: 
Simms dumps his seven iron shot safely down in front of the water to a smattering of polite applause. 
Simms tosses the club back to his bag as Tin Cup retrieves the divot. And: 
STADLER Hey, Dave!   We in a hurry? 
Simms looks several yards back where Stadler is still standing with McCord and Mickelson. 
STADLER 'Cause I just bet McCord and Mickelson that your caddie could knock it on from here. 
SIMMS We're trying to win a tournament, pardo. 
STADLER I know.    But I'm getting five to one. 
17   EXT. TV TOWER                                                17 
The ANNOUNCER from the GOLF CHANNEL looks at the monitor where a hand-held camera is picking up Stadler motioning Tin Cup over. 
GOLF CHANNEL ANNOUNCER From two-fifty from a snarly lie, over water, on national TV, with no warmup... I'd give ten to one to a tour pro. 
18   BACK TO COURSE                                               18 
Stadler, McCord, and Mickelson are smiling at the bet. 
This is golf. But Simms snarls at being challenged. Stadler drops a ball in the rough for Tin Cup to hit. 
STADLER Here ya go.   Take a hack at it. 
SIMMS Balls versus brains, Roy. You hit that shot, just keep walking, 'cuz your ass is fired. 
Tin Cup mulls over the warning, as: 
STADLER, McCORD, MICKELSON Come on, Roy!    Your fans are calling! 
Stadler waves his arms to summon a cheer from the gallery. Tin Cup puts down Simms's golf bag. 
TIN CUP How you gonna fire me in front of all these people? Especially when I knock it on the green. 
And he heads over to where Stadler and the others stand waiting. 
19   OMITTED                                                      19 
PETER KOSTIS, with a hand mike, following the group, begins to describe the extraordinary event unfolding. 
KOSTIS (on mike) It seems like the Charity Tournament is taking a little 
Doreen dances in a yellow rose outfit, a more classic strip look than her protegees. 
CLOSE ON ROW OF DOLLAR BILLS 
held aloft by the eager locals in the front row... and then a handful of papers held aloft by one Roy McAvoy, also in the front row. 
Doreen dances over and picks the papers from his hand, reading them as she dances. 
DOREEN The DieHard/West Texas Calcutta, the Duvall County Boys Club Pro/ Scratch, Woody's Steak House One Club Scramble... what do I want with all these entry forms? 
TIN CUP It's a business proposition. I'm offering you my winnings from all them tournaments this summer. 
DOREEN In exchange for what? 
TIN CUP My driving range back. 
She dances away from him, not exactly sold on the idea. 
She dances back to him, reclines a leg on the partition, and moves her face opposite his. 
DOREEN Roy, I'm not as dumb as my hair makes me look. 
TIN CUP They ain't all strictly minor league. One of 'em pays almost two grand! 
She twirls off.    He chases her, beer and entries in hand. 
TIN CUP Now wait, Doreen. You gotta do the math, and you gotta look at how good I'm playing. I hit the shot of the tournament at the best-ball. They put it on national TV. 
DOREEN I saw. 
TIN CUP And what does that tell you? 
The MUSIC comes to an END.   The club is momentarily silent. 
TIN CUP (shouting) And what does that tell you? 
DOREEN It tells me you took an unauthorized day off. Next time it happens, you're fired. In the meantime, I'm putting in a time clock. 
TIN CUP I'm not punching in no time 
clock like some working stiff! 
CUT TO: 
27   INT. DRIVING RANGE - NEXT DAY                               27 
Tin Cup punches the new time clock which is located under the awning near the ball wash. 
KACHUNK goes the TIME CLOCK as he hurries outside -- 
29   EXT. DRIVING RANGE - DAY                                    29 
-- and there he finds Molly, waiting on the tee with her driver and a bucket of balls. 
TIN CUP Am I early? 
MOLLY Mr. McAvoy, I can appreciate that you have a fairly laid-back, relaxed lifestyle -- but I have hours to keep. 
TIN CUP A former paramour once ascribed my fluid sense of time to being born under the sign of Pisces -- something about floating through the universe -- 
He tees a ball for her and steps back.   She's staring at him, half-amused. 
MOLLY You amuse me, Roy. But I'm the only woman in America born after World War II who thinks astrology is a crock of shit. (beat) Now let's see if the Big Dog'll eat. 
TIN CUP Waggle. 
MOLLY I'm waggling... 
TIN CUP Set up to the ball like I showed you last time. 
Molly addresses the shot.    Her stance is rigid, overly 
mechanical.   Tin Cup winces.    But she looks terrific. 
TIN CUP Quit trying to wring that club's neck, Molly. Show it a little warmth and compassion... 
He moves around behind her to reposition her shoulders. 
TIN CUP Remember, this game's about trust and touch and letting go. So while I'm subtly enhancing your technical prospects, why don't you tell me all about your personal life... 
MOLLY It's none of your fucking business, Roy. 
Tin Cup's hands move down to square her hips.    He's discreet and professional. 
TIN CUP Your boyfriend's a golfer -- that's my bet -- and he's why you're taking this game up. Hell, I probably even know him -- 
SIMMS (O.S.) Get your hands off her ass, Roy. 
And, as Tin Cup's hands recoil in alarm... 
DAVID SIMMS steps onto the range. 
MOLLY (to Simms) Hi, sweetie... 
TIN CUP Not him... 
CLOSE ON TIN CUP 
Crushed and bewildered. 
And he rips a drive down the fairway. 
BOONE Nutted it. 
Tin Cup selects the baseball bat from his golf bag. Romeo hands him a pink ball and Tin Cup shows it to Boone. 
TIN CUP I'll be playing a Pink Lady today. 
BOONE That little pink fag ball supposed to rattle me? 
Tin Cup moves over to the tee markers. 
TIN CUP Not unless I knock it by you. 
And he tosses up the Pink Lady and fungoes it long and straight down the fairway. 
CUT TO: 
34   EXT. MESQUITE FIRST FAIRWAY - DAY                           34 
Tin Cup stops at his ball, and looks twenty yards back to 
where Boone has arrived with his caddie at his drive. 
TIN CUP Yep, I caught this thing way the Hell on the toe. 
Boone knocks an iron onto the edge of the green. 
BOONE Drive for show, putt for dough, big shot. 
TIN CUP Did you hear that, Romeo? Boone was being profound! He has revealed to me the essential mystery of golf! Drive for show, putt for dough... (holds out a palm) Louisville Slugger, please. 
Boone's a little rattled by Tin Cup's insouciance. 
ROMEO You got Boone shakin' already -- (studying the approach) Front left bunker's your best angle to the pin. 
TIN CUP (calling his shot) Front left bunker -- plugged lie. 
He tosses up the ball and fungoes a lazy fly ball. 
CUT TO: 
35   EXT. MESQUITE 1ST GREEN AND SAND TRAP - DAY                 35 
Boone gazes with malicious delight at Tin Cup's ball, buried in the front left bunker. He watches Tin Cup take the hoe from Romeo and move down into the trap. 
BOONE I want to see a legitimate swing. No scooping. 
Tin Cup holds up a hand like a gallery marshal requesting silence. 
TIN CUP Stand, please.     Gallery, please, stand. 
He addresses the ball, choking down on the hoe, positioning the blade at an odd angle. He hacks at the ball with an unorthodox chopping motion. The ball pops up in the air, lands on the green, releases and rolls up a foot from the hole. 
Boone's jaw drops. Tin Cup hit an impossible shot with utter ease and facility. 
TIN CUP I'll finish. 
Tin Cup trades Romeo the shovel for the rake, takes the pin out of the hole, and pool cues the putt home. Par. Boone looks at his own sixty-foot putt and he knows he's just been had... utterly, embarrassingly, and thoroughly. 
Without a word he counts four hundred dollars from his roll and drops it on the green. 
BOONE Get the hell off my course. 
38   EXT. PAWN SHOP - DAY                                        38 
Tin Cup and Romeo emerge, Romeo carrying T.C.'s sticks. 
TIN CUP Listen, swami, your job is to teach me patience and humility, not to advise me on my love life. 
ROMEO No. My job is to get your head straight so you can qualify for The Open, much less win it. To get your head straight you got to forget about the doctor lady. 
They head up the street under a collonade toward Tin Cup's waiting Caddy. 
TIN CUP Not all my thinking occurs below the belt. I actually stand for a few things beside where my next romantic interlude is coming from. 
ROMEO Then you got no problem telling the doctor lady you can't teach her no more till after the Open. 
Tin Cup blinks silently a moment, feeling slightly cornered. 
TIN CUP That would make an issue of something that ain't an issue. Besides, I'm focused. 
Romeo responds with a Spanish curse. 
TIN CUP I mean, this is my quest! 
ROMEO Ahhh... your quest... chingaso... 
TIN CUP This is where I stand up for all the little guys everywhere who've had their fill of soulless robots like David Simms -- 
ROMEO He may be a soulless robot but he's a rich, happy soulless robot with a beautiful doctor lady girlfriend who's got you by the huevos -- (beat) Besides, how is getting into the U.S. Open gonna change what she thinks about you? 
TIN CUP It'll prove to her that I'm not who she thinks I am. 
ROMEO But you are who she thinks you are! Look, I don't bet on a horse with a hard-on. 
TIN CUP Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Here, touch me, feel -- (as Tin Cup grabs himself) I don't feel nothing! Here! 
ROMEO (embarrassed) Hey, hey... shit... cool it... 
CUT TO: 
42    INT. MOLLY'S OFFICE - FEW BEATS LATER - DAY                42 
Tin Cup is dutifully lying on the couch because he heard that's what you do. He stares at the ceiling. Molly enters and sits down. 
MOLLY Roy... are you okay? 
TIN CUP I need therapy. 
MOLLY Obviously. 
TIN CUP What do I do? I mean... to do it ... therapy... I mean, how do I start doing... it. 
MOLLY In parlance you might understand, just kick back and let the Big Dog eat. 
He sighs and plunges in. 
TIN CUP Okay, okay, let 'er rip... (deep breath) Suppose there's this guy. He's standing on the shore of a big, wide river. And the river's fulla all manner of disaster, like alligators and piranhas and currents and eddies, and most people won't even go down there to dip a toe. But on the other side of the river's a million dollars, and on this side of the river there's a rowboat. I guess my question's this: What would possess the guy on shore to swim for it? 
MOLLY He's an idiot. 
TIN CUP No. He's a hell of a swimmer, see. His problem's more like... why's he always gotta rise to the challenge? 
MOLLY He's a juvenile idiot. 
TIN CUP You don't understand what I mean by the river. 
MOLLY We're talking about you and what you like to call your inner demons, Roy, that human frailty you like to blather about, not some mytho-poetic metaphor you come up with in a feeble and transparent effort to do yourself credit. 
TIN CUP Y'mean you're gonna make me feel lousy? I came here to feel better -- what kinda therapy is this? 
MOLLY You don't have any inner demons. What you have is inner crapola, inner debris -- garbage, loose wires, horseshit in staggering amounts. 
TIN CUP I ain't just some jerk driving- range pro who drinks too much booze and eats too few vegetables. 
MOLLY You're being defensive -- cut to the chase and tell me why you're here. 
TIN CUP Well... I'm smitten with a woman. 
MOLLY That's good.   Is she smitten with you? 
TIN CUP Not yet. 
MOLLY Have you asked her out? 
TIN CUP She's seeing a guy. I don't know how serious it is, but the guy's a real horse's ass, in my opinion... 
MOLLY If you shared your heart with this woman -- maybe asked her out to dinner -- then it would force these issues out in the open. 
TIN CUP I'm afraid she'll say no. 
MOLLY Ahh... so what you're saying is that all your speeches about swimming across the shark infested waters are really just about your golf game -- not about your personal life. 
TIN CUP Christ, I didn't know we were gonna get into my personal life! 
MOLLY This is therapy! 
TIN CUP Well, jeez, I know, but I didn't think it was that kind of therapy... 
MOLLY What were you expecting?    Ann Landers? 
TIN CUP Yeah. 
MOLLY Look, it's rather simple. Those risks that you love to take on the golf course, the risks you talk so passionately and poetically about -- you need to apply those risks to your personal life with the same passion. 
TIN CUP I should ask this woman out. 
MOLLY Yes! 
TIN CUP I should risk coming right over the top and snap-hooking it out of bounds left. 
MOLLY Yes! 
TIN CUP Risk hitting it a little thin and -- 
MOLLY For Godsakes, Roy, that's enough! 
TIN CUP Right.   Sorry. 
MOLLY S'okay... (beat) Look, just walk up to this woman, wherever she is, look her in the eye with those big beautiful green eyes of yours, let down your guard and don't try to be smooth or cool or whatever -- just be honest and take the risk -- you can do it! 
Tin Cup rises with new confidence. He does several deep breathing exercises, trying to work up the courage. She stares at him. And he walks right up to her. 
TIN CUP Dr. Griswold -- I think I'm in 
love with you. 
Molly is stunned. 
MOLLY What?! 
TIN CUP From the moment I first saw you I knew I was through with bar girls and strippers and motorcycle chicks, and when you started talking I was smitten and I'm smitten more every day I think about you -- and the fact that you know I'm full of crapola only makes you more attractive to me because usually I can bullshit people but I can't bullshit you and in addition, most women I'm thinking about how to get into their pants from Day One but with you I'm just thinking about how to get into your heart -- 
Molly was clue-less.   She just stares. 
MOLLY My God... 
TIN CUP (optimistically, proudly) Stunned, eh? So what about dinner and we can talk about `us' and if we have a future and how to drop that horse's ass boyfriend of yours -- 
He snaps it over his knee. He dumps these halves on the ground with the halves of the driver and three wood. 
Romeo stares, aghast.   Tin Cup merely shrugs. 
TIN CUP Sometimes I fan that two iron. Better gimme the three. 
Romeo warily hands Tin Cup the three iron.    Tin Cup looks at it, frowns, then: 
He snaps it over his knee and tosses it on the ground. 
Molly leans over to the regulars. 
MOLLY Is this normal behavior for him? 
EARL The word 'normal' and him don't collide in the same sentence too often. 
She watches in amazement as -- 
TIN CUP Sometimes I catch that three a little thin... 
He drops the three iron halves with the other halves, and steps past Romeo and sequentially yanks all but the seven iron from his bag. 
He snaps them over his knee, one by one, citing the crimes of each club with mounting absurdity and ire. 
TIN CUP And I've hooked my four iron... (snap) ... and hit flyers with the five... (snap) ... and shanked the six... (snap) ... and skulled the eight... (snap) ... and fatted the nine... (snap) ... and chili-dipped the wedge... (snap) ... and bladed the sand wedge... (snap; then pauses to reflect contemptuously on his putter) ... and then there's Mister Three-putt... 
He snaps the putter in half and dumps it in the pile of 
broken clubs at his feet. 
Then, he reaches for the last club in his bag, the seven iron. The regulars hold their breath, thinking this is the end of Tin Cup's Open bid. But... 
Tin Cup smiles and caresses the seven iron affectionately. 
TIN CUP But the seven iron, I never miss the seven iron. It's the only truly safe club in my bag. 
He moves to the tee, drops a ball, and hits it down the middle with the seven iron. 
TIN CUP You happy, Romeo? 
ROMEO No, boss, I'm tired... my life's too short to spend it watching you fall apart. I done it too many times. 
Romeo turns and starts walking away. 
TIN CUP What's this? You're quitting? First sign of adversity, you're quitting? (as Romeo continues) Anyone want to bet me I can't par in with a seven iron? (to Molly) Doc? Take the bet? 
MOLLY Roy -- just shut up and hit the ball. 
CUT TO: 
54   QUICK SERIES OF SHOTS                                      54 
Tin Cup's magic with a seven iron.   He drives with a seven iron. 
55   He chips with a seven iron.                                55 
56   He blasts out of sand with an open-bladed seven iron.      56 
CUT TO: 
57   EXT. COTTONWOOD LOCAL QUALIFIER - EIGHTEENTH HOLE - DAY     57 
Tin Cup drains a ten foot putt -- also with the seven iron, and left-handed to boot. He's past the local qualifier. 
The regulars erupt in cheers.   You'd have thought he won the Masters. 
And Tin Cup shrugs to the tiny gallery, with insouciance and cockiness, and pronounces -- 
TIN CUP An easy game, this golf... 
CUT TO: 
58   EXT. 19TH HOLE - OUTDOOR BAR - DAY (LATER)                  58 
Tin Cup holds court surrounded by his regulars and much of the gallery. He's a local hero -- but Molly's not impressed. 
A WAITRESS delivers a tray of long neck beers. 
19TH HOLE WAITRESS Beer for everybody. 
CLINT You the man, Tin Cup! 
A toast is raised to their king, and Tin Cup eats it up. 
TIN CUP Thanks, boys, what'ya think was my best shot -- the seven iron on twelve, the seven iron on fourteen, or maybe it was the bunker shot on eighteen which, to my recollection was a -- seven iron? 
Much laughter.   This is the Tin Cup they love. 
EARL You definitely the man! 
TIN CUP How'd I do, Doc? 
MOLLY (cheerfully) You failed miserably. 
TIN CUP What?! I parred the back nine with a seven iron, I qualified for the regionals, I -- 
MOLLY Your job is not just to qualify for the Open, it's to prepare for the Open. My job is to help you prepare. 
TIN CUP You said to 'trust my feelings'! 
He puts the Walkman headset over his ears on the first tee. We hear what he hears, and -- 
MOLLY (V.O.) (on tape) ... `Private victories precede public victories. You cannot harvest a crop before you plant it...' 
Kaboom!   He launches a tee shot down the middle. 
MOLLY (V.O) (on tape) ... `How you view the problem, is the problem...' 
66   TIN CUP chips into the cup.                                66 
67   TIN CUP drains putt after putt with confidence.            67 
MOLLY (V.O.) (on tape) ... `Follow your bliss...' 
68   TIN CUP takes a club from Earl who's huffing and           68 puffing a little too hard for a caddie, and -- 
Tin Cup crisps a three iron over water to a tight green. 
Tin Cup is carrying his own bag now -- Earl is several paces behind, dragging his body slowly, exhausted. 
69   CLOSE ON SCOREBOARD -- Even par, even, even, one           69 under... 
MOLLY (V.O.) (on tape) ... `Say not that I have found the truth but that I have found a truth...' 
70   CLOSE ON TIN CUP -- Still in a zone, confident,            70 relaxed, hitting lots of good shots. But the score is close, the competition tougher. He's near the top, but not first. 
71   TIN CUP lips out a fifteen-foot putt -- heartbreak.        71 He starts to lose it, but... 
MOLLY (V.O.) (on tape) ...`You can't have the fruits without the roots...' 
And Tin Cup just smiles and taps in. 
72   SCOREBOARD tells us we're down to the 36th, final hole.    72 
73                           TIN CUP                            73 Whattya think, Earl? 
EARL I think three under will qualify. You need birdie. I could shit. 
TIN CUP A little more confidence there, Earl... 
EARL I wish Romeo was here. I ain't cut out to do this. I'm a spectator by nature. An observer. I'm a -- 
TIN CUP Shut up and hand me the Big Dog. 
EARL You got it. 
Tin Cup takes the driver and uncoils a beauty. 
TIN CUP The Force is with me, pods... 
CUT TO: 
74   TIN CUP hits a wedge approach -- the ball lands inches     74 from the hole. The crowd gasps... but -- 
The backspin grabs it and the ball spins back and back and back, ten, twenty, thirty feet before coming to a rest. 
The men head solemnly to the final green. 
CUT TO: 
75   EXT. LA PALOMA - 18TH GREEN - DAY                           75 
Tin Cup surveys the thirty-foot snake of a putt.   Earl's of absolutely no use. 
TIN CUP We need this one big time, Earl, whattya think? 
EARL (unsurely) Looks straight to me. 
TIN CUP Straight?! Thing's a roller coaster breaks four ways and dies at the hole -- you're blind! 
EARL Actually, I am blind... 20-60 in one eye -- and that's the good eye... 
TIN CUP I got a blind caddie... just hold the stick, Earl -- and be sure to pull it out... 
Tin Cup studies the hell out of this putt. If it goes in, he's in the Open. He misses, back to Salome. 
MOLLY (V.O.) (on tape) ... when the going gets tough, the, the, the, whirrrrrrrrrrr, the, the... 
Tin Cup shakes the Walkman and pounds his ears. 
TIN CUP Doc?  Doc? (panicky) Earl, Earl -- the tape's jammed! She's abandoning me! 
MARSHAL Are you okay? 
TIN CUP Yeah, yeah... I'm flying solo now... 
MARSHAL What? 
TIN CUP I gotta make this putt. 
MARSHAL Obviously. 
Tin Cup stares endlessly at the long putt. 
TIN CUP ... just pick the line, feel the speed -- bad timing, doc, Jesus... 
He steps up to the putt, still talking to himself. 
TIN CUP Like a million others you made in your life, Roy. Just see it going in. Just feel it... right in the back of the jar... just pull the goddamn trigger, you pussy... 
Unfazed, Tin Cup steps up to hit again, but... once more -- 
Thwock! -- Another horrible-looking squib to the right. 
Romeo stops washing balls and notices, watching Tin Cup. 
Thwock, thwock! -- Something's terribly wrong. 
CLOSE ON TIN CUP 
Concern crosses his face. 
TIN CUP Romeo! 
ROMEO I'm watching. 
TIN CUP It ain't no chili dipper. 
ROMEO Yeah, boss, you got the 'S' word. 
TIN CUP What am I doing wrong? 
ROMEO Shanks are like a virus -- they just show up. Nobody can figure 'em out. 
Thwock, thwock, thwock! -- Three more chili dippers.   Our man definitely has the shanks. And he's panicking. 
TIN CUP Romes!   Something's terribly wrong.   What's your guess?! 
ROMEO It's the woman. 
TIN CUP I thought you said it was a virus? 
ROMEO A woman can have the same effect. 
TIN CUP What do I do? 
ROMEO Keep swinging... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
80   EXT. RANGE - THAT NIGHT (MUCH LATER)                          80 
Thwock, thwock, thwock! -- Night has fallen and he still has the shanks. 
The regulars have gathered and are huddled, murmuring. The word has spread like wildfire -- Tin Cup has the shanks. 
CLINT Never thought it would happen... 
EARL The shanks is for us mortals, not 
for the great ones... 
JOSE Esta muy feo... muy, muy feo... 
(It is very ugly, very, very ugly...) 
Tin Cup angrily throws his club out into the night and turns to the regulars. 
TIN CUP Y'know why they named this game 'golf'? 'Cause the words 'fuck' and 'shit' were already taken! 
A CAR HORN HONKS -- All heads turn to see: 
POV SHOT - PINK CORVETTE 
pulls in -- Doreen gets out, carrying a big package. 
DOREEN Hiya, fellas! 
TIN CUP What is this? Everybody like to watch a train wreck?! 
Doreen approaches the regulars, and we notice for the first time that there are a number of bags and packages with the boys. 
DOREEN He's in one of his pleasant moods, I see -- 
ROMEO He's got the shanks. We got the makings of a Greek tragedy here. 
DOREEN (shouting to Tin Cup) Quit whining and get over here. We've got something for you. 
Tin Cup drags his sorry ass to the group. 
TIN CUP Unless it's a 'swing thought,' I'm not interested... 
DOREEN (ignoring his attitude) We're here to sponsor you in the 
Open. Me an' the boys have pooled our resources and come up with some cash so you can look and feel as spiffy as all them big-name pros. 
TIN CUP But I got the shanks -- 
DOREEN Yeah, and you obviously still have a hard-on for the doctor chick -- your face is all screwed up and tight like you haven't been laid in awhile -- 
TIN CUP Is it really that obvious? 
DOREEN It's not a good look for you. Roy, your heart is not the only organ you wear on your sleeve. There's a certain, vulgar appeal to your transparency. 
Tin Cup shrugs.   She always has him outflanked. 
CLINT C'mon, Tin Cup, we're trying to make you a presentation -- 
TIN CUP Awright, awright... 
Molly starts laughing -- He is destroyed. 
TIN CUP The therapist laughs at her patient? Is that how it works? A man is laid bare before God and he's the butt of the cosmic joke? 
MOLLY I'm sorry, I just... 
TIN CUP Some of this shit might actually 
work, y'know... I mean I think there's something to this hat with the pendulum golf ball thing... may be on to something here... 
MOLLY Oh, Roy, Jesus... Quoting yourself, 'It is the paraphernalia for lost and desperate souls.' 
Tin Cup lets down. The wind goes out of his sails and he loses his defensiveness. 
TIN CUP Well, God damn... a lost and desperate soul stands before you. (beat) I assume I have the confidentiality of doctor-client privilege in regards to this outfit? 
MOLLY Of course you do. What happened? 
TIN CUP I got the shanks. 
MOLLY Are you taking penicillin? 
TIN CUP It can't be treated! It's much worse than whatever you thought it was. (beat) There's a glitch in my swing. 
MOLLY So it's in Romeo's department? 
TIN CUP He thinks it's your department -- says it's a head thing. 
MOLLY Oh. Well. I just came over to congratulate you on the regionals and return your car -- David says he doesn't want it, just wanted to make a point with you -- (beat) But I suppose we could have a therapy session right here and now 
TIN CUP I don't want therapy. I want you. 
MOLLY Roy...   I gotta get some air -- 
TIN CUP Look at me -- (considering what that means) Well, not right at the moment -- but listen to me. You're with the wrong guy. I'm the right guy. Everyone tells me my face is all screwed up tight as a drum 'cause I've been crazy about you from the day you showed up wearing this stupid stuff and the whole damn thing has both inspired me to get here on the verge of greatness yet it's also caused me to get the shanks which could humiliate me in front of a zillion people. (beat) Such is life. So dump that phony bastard and come to the Open in my corner -- you can delay your romantic urges, which I know are lurking in there among the excess of brain cells you possess -- until the appropriate time... (beat) Tell me you're not at least moderately attracted to me. 
Tin Cup stands there with the ball still dangling from his hat, the leather straps, the bucket, the arrows -- for the moment he's forgotten how stupid he looks. 
MOLLY You have moments. 
TIN CUP Tell me which ones are my moments and I'll try to duplicate them. 
MOLLY This is a moment. You look great. 
TIN CUP Now?! 
MOLLY Utterly exposed, completely vulnerable, the inner child trying to get out. 
TIN CUP My inner child needs spanking. 
MOLLY You always liked that part about saddling up, the smell of leather 
TIN CUP C'mon, let's have a drink. Call it therapy. Charge me 75 an hour. Little Cuervo, little Freud... 
She's thinking about it. 
MOLLY Naw... I gotta go. (turns to leave) Oh, I don't have a car, I need a ride. 
CUT TO: 
83   EXT. ALONG RIVER BACK TO TOWN - DAY                       83 
Tin Cup and Molly in his convertible.   He works on her without pushing too hard. 
TIN CUP I know a spot along the river's great to watch the sunset? 
MOLLY Not tonight. 
TIN CUP 'Not tonight' means maybe some other night? 
MOLLY I didn't mean it like that. 
TIN CUP Consciously you didn't mean it like that -- but how about unconsciously, you're the expert, did you mean it unconsciously? 
MOLLY Unconsciously, Roy, I don't have a clue what I'm talking about. 
TIN CUP I feel we're making progress. 
MOLLY I do too. But I have no idea what it's progress towards... 
A84     EXT. MOLLY'S OFFICE - DUSK                                 A84 
The Caddy pulls up in front of her office at the new mall. She gets out. 
MOLLY Good luck in the Open, Roy. 
TIN CUP Put your money on me, Doc, the odds are fabulous and God knows I'm overdue... 
He drives away, and we stay: 
CLOSE ON MOLLY 
Watching Tin Cup careen away in his Caddy. 
CUT TO: 
84/85   EXT. SOUTHWESTERN HIGHWAY - DAY                            84/85 
The intrepid Winnebago on the way to the Open.    Romeo drives -- Tin Cup stares out the window. 
SIMMS Hiya, Roy... welcome to the big leagues... (checks the list) Here ya go, Charlie, his name's right here. (to Tin Cup) They spelled your name wrong -- easy mistake with a total unknown. 
SECURITY GUARD (to Cop) Let him in. 
Simms smiles at Tin Cup, the easy smile of a man on top. 
Tin Cup doesn't respond, just asks the Guard: 
TIN CUP Which way to the practice range? 
As Tin Cup tries to regain some dignity, and climbs back into the Winnebago -- 
SECURITY GUARD (to Simms) He said he was a 'legend'? 
SIMMS Oh he is... he's a very big name at a driving range in Salome, Texas... 
They all have a good laugh, and -- 
CUT TO: 
91   EXT. PRACTICE RANGE - DAY                                   91 
Lots of the big names are there.   Romeo is like a kid at the ballpark. 
ROMEO Look! Right there! Fred Couples... and Ray Floyd! 
Romeo notices that Tin Cup is staring at the pile of practice balls lying there on the tee. 
TIN CUP Look at these balls. Brand new Titleists. Lookit 'em, every one a brand new Titleist. (lowers his voice) Sneak a few in the bag when you get a chance. We swipe enough free shit we might even pay for this fiasco. 
Tin Cup limbers up, trying not to be in awe of the real legends who line the practice range, hitting beautiful shot after beautiful shot with graceful ease. 
ROMEO You think it would be inappropriate to ask Ray Floyd for an autograph? 
TIN CUP I think it's a dead giveaway, Romes... but if I still got the shanks we're gonna be found out real fast... 
Tin Cup nudges a ball from the pile into address position. Romeo hands him a different club. 
ROMEO Hit the seven iron. You never miss the seven... 
TIN CUP Good thought, Pods... 
Tin Cup waggles, shakes, limbers, addresses... 
TIN CUP Dollar bills... 
And he swings. 
THWOCK! A hideous shank squirrels across line, almost hitting a group of U.S. Open officials. Heads turn. 
TIN CUP (to anyone who'll listen) Who hit that shot? Anybody see? 
He addresses another one.   And swings. 
THWOCK!   A disaster.   He crumbles. 
ROMEO A little thin, Boss. 
TIN CUP A little fucking thin?! I still got the shanks! Everybody's watching! Christ, Simms is here... 
Simms has arrived and is watching Tin Cup with delight as he loosens up. 
ROMEO Maybe we should work on putting. Ya can't shank a putt. 
Tin Cup pretends to limber a little more before daring to strike another ball. 
TIN CUP If you're the Mexican Mac O'Grady, Romes, you gotta figure out why I'm still shanking the ball. (beat) What's the problem? I'm catching it on the hosel, right? Moving my head? I'm laying off it, I'm pronating, I'm supinating, I'm clearing too early, I'm clearing too late, I'm off plane, I ain't dropping in -- oh, God, my swing feels like an unfolding lawn chair. 
ROMEO You got a virus in your brain.   I 
got to kill the brain to kill the virus. 
TIN CUP Anything.   Kill me now! 
ROMEO Put all your change in your right pocket. 
Tin Cup follows orders, not questioning the logic. 
ROMEO Very good. Now tie your left shoelace in a double knot. 
Again, Tin Cup dutifully follows orders. 
ROMEO Esta bueno. Now, turn your hat around backwards and put a blue tee behind your right ear... 
TIN CUP I'll look like a fool. 
ROMEO What you think you look like hitting those squirrelly chili peppers up Freddy Couples' ass, eh? Do what I say or I quit. 
TIN CUP Okay, okay... 
ROMEO Perfect... now hit a seven iron into that tree over there. You're ready. 
Tin Cup hits a perfect seven iron into the trees. 
TIN CUP How'd I do that? 
ROMEO You ain't thinking about shanking, you ain't thinking about the doctor lady, you ain't thinking period. You just lookin' like a fool and hittin' it pure -- your natural state. 
TIN CUP Fuck you. 
TIN CUP The Anti-Christ shoots 67, you believe it? 
ROMEO Ol' Anti-Christ got a hot putter... 
SIMMS (V.O.) (on television) ... you see, this game is all about integrity and tradition and honor... 
TIN CUP What? It's about cheating and racism and bullshit! 
ROMEO Easy, boss... 
CUT TO: 
96   EXT. JUST OFF EIGHTEENTH - DAY (SAME TIME)               96 
Live coverage of the Simms interview. Molly is among a small crowd gathered to watch. He doesn't seem to know that she's there. 
SIMMS (live on mike) So tomorrow I'll just go out there and try to make some good swings and, Lord willing, maybe I can put up another good number. Thank you. 
NANTZ Thank you, David Simms, a brilliant opening round 67 to take the lead. 
Simms walks away, now off-camera.   FANS call out -- 
FANS David!   David!     Over here! 
SIMMS Gotta go. 
Simms cuts down behind the tent toward the clubhouse, away from the galleries. The marshals open a rope allowing him to avoid the crowds, but -- 
An ELDERLY COUPLE with a young child are there.   The lady has a tiny dog in her arms. 
OLD MAN Excuse me, Mr. Simms! (off no response) Can you sign an autograph for our grandson? 
SIMMS (snaps) Can't you see I'm busy?! I'm working! This is my office! Do I come to your office and ask you for an autograph?! Jesus... 
He practically stiff-arms them as he passes, heading up to the clubhouse. They stand there in shock. 
SIMMS (muttering to himself) Who the fuck these people think they are... 
CAMERA PANS OVER TO the edge of the tent. Molly, trying to get to David, has seen the whole thing. 
CLOSE ON MOLLY 
She speaks to herself. 
MOLLY Old people, children, and dogs... 
CUT TO: 
97   INT. CLUBHOUSE BAR - SUNSET                                  97 
Simms enters to numerous congratulations from officials, caddies, other PLAYERS. Instantly, in public, he feigns humility with convincing flair. 
PLAYER #1 Helluva round, Dave! 
SIMMS Got lucky out there... 
PLAYER #2 Great start, Simmsy... 
Simms stops when he sees Tin Cup and Romeo drowning their sorrows. 
SIMMS Hey, Tin Cup -- heard you put a monster number up there... 
TIN CUP Coulda been worse... 
A small bar crowd is enjoying Simms' taunts. 
SIMMS I played in the Pro-Am with some asshole movie star shot 82 here once... how did a great ball- striker like you, a `legend,' manage to shoot an 83? 
TIN CUP I missed a four foot putt on the eighteen for an 82, that's how... 
SIMMS It ain't like playing some muni track in Brownsville, is it? 
A voice interrupts. 
MOLLY Does, `integrity, tradition, and honor' include kicking a man when he's down? 
SIMMS Oh, Mol', this is just guy stuff, bar talk, part of the game -- no offense, right, Cup? 
No answer.    Tin Cup's about as low as one can go. 
MOLLY (defensively) This man still has a lot of good golf shots in his system -- 
TIN CUP (trying to hide) Molly, it's okay, go away... I don't need any attention right 
now... 
SOME GUY AT THE BAR (to Tin Cup) You the guy shot 83?! 
MOLLY David, I'll bet you a hundred dollars right now that Roy here can hit a ball -- (looks around) -- from right here to... through that door to the patio... 
She points to a double door, forty feet away across, the bar, about an 8 x 8 foot opening. 
TIN CUP Molly, please... 
MOLLY (to bartender) And give me a vodka tonic with a twist -- 
SIMMS Molly, really, this isn't... dignified... 
MOLLY Roy? 
MOLLY No, no, no... you were great... 
TIN CUP Tempo is everything... 
MOLLY Perfection's unobtainable... 
TIN CUP Mighta rushed it on the downswing... 
MOLLY Come over the top a little... 
TIN CUP Yeah... well, as Walter Hagen once said -- 'Sex and golf are the only two things you can be bad at and still enjoy...' 
MOLLY Let's take a mulligan and tee it up again -- 
They embrace with enthusiasm and start thrashing again. 
102   BACK OUTSIDE                                                 102 
Romeo's patience is getting thin.   He pounds on the door. 
ROMEO You guys done yet? This is no time for a marathon... 
The rain keeps coming down. 
CUT TO: 
103   EXT. GOLF COURSE - NEXT DAY                                  103 
Galleries line fairways and fill stands. The course is wet, the skies threatening, but play is underway. 
104   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER - DAY                                  104 
JIM NANTZ in the booth. 
NANTZ The sun is struggling to come out, the course is drying up, and in case you're just joining us, the leaders have just reached the ninth hole because of delayed starting times -- (beat) -- David Simms is clinging to a one shot lead over Peter Jacobsen... but the real story is out on sixteen where a driving range pro who shot an opening eighty-three is making a run at perhaps the most legendary round of golf in Open history, Johnny Miller's sixty-three at Oakmont -- Ben Wright is in the tower at 
sixteen... 
CUT TO: 
105    EXT. SIXTEENTH HOLE - DAY                                   105 
We hear Ben Wright's voice as Tin Cup marks his ball on the green. A small gallery has begun to follow him. 
WRIGHT (V.O.) If anyone was ever to make a run at what is the most storied number in Open history, Miller's sixty- three, it would be today when the rain has softened the greens, enabling the players to take dead aim at the flags. Still, the unswerving courage of an unknown driving range pro from Salome has raised that humble journeyman from the ashes of an ignominious eighty-three to wave a mighty fist at the pantheon of golf's immortals. This man, this Roy McAvoy has laid siege to the record book by birdieing the first seven holes. A brave par from the water at eight, and a glorious birdie three at the daunting twelfth, another at thirteen... 
Tin Cup gets his read, and steps up to putt. 
WRIGHT (V.O.) ... this putt to go ten under for the day... 
Tin Cup putts -- When the ball is still two feet from the hole, Tin Cup raises his putter in triumph... and sure enough, the ball drops in the hole. 
CUT TO: 
106    EXT. GOLF COURSE - HIGH ANGLE - DAY                         106 
Golf fans stream from other fairways to catch up as: 
A107   EXT. SEVENTEENTH GREEN                                      A107 
Tin Cup knocks his approach to within six feet of the cup. The swelling gallery at the green roars. 
CUT TO: 
107   INT. DRIVING RANGE (SALOME) - EVENING                       107 
Doreen is behind the till. The regulars and several customers crowd the counter, staring up at the TELEVISION as Dewey rushes in from his job. 
DEWEY They said on the radio he was ten under -- 
EVERYONE Shhhh!!! 
Silence, everyone watching the TV, everyone starting to contort in body-English, then: 
A joyous roar -- Tin Cup's putt went down.    Earl twirls with glee. 
EARL He's shooting the lowest round ever! 
CLINT And eighteen's a par five. A birdie there, he shoots sixty! 
DOREEN We gotta go, boys. We gotta get us on a Continental Trailways and find this damn place! 
CUT TO: 
108   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER - DAY                                 108 
The MONITOR shows Tin Cup approaching his ball in the fairway. Ken Venturi is commentating. 
VENTURI McAvoy's hit another big drive, but this is not a shot he wants to get aggressive with... 
109   EXT. EIGHTEENTH FAIRWAY - DAY                               109 
Tin Cup and Romeo survey the shot -- a long downhill carry over a lake to a slightly elevated green. A shot similar to the one he pulled off at the best-ball. 
ROMEO Two-sixty to carry, Roy. You got to lay up, man. I don't care how good you swinging. You got to lay 
up. 
Tin Cup looks at the iron Romeo proffers. He looks back at the shot, throws some grass in the air, testing the wind. He looks at the gallery, the lake, the green, the whole grand setting... and then: 
TIN CUP This is for Venturi, up there in the booth, thinking I should lay up... (addressing his ball) Dollar bills... 
He swings and holds the pose. He caught the ball perfectly -- it sails high and true into the luffing breeze, the GALLERY ROARS, and... 
... the ball drops, SPLOOSH! into the WATER, a couple feet short of dry land. The GALLERY GROANS.` 
BACK TO TIN CUP 
Staring amazed, almost betrayed, that his ball didn't carry the water. 
TIN CUP That's a long fucking ways. (holds out his hand) Gimme another ball. 
ROMEO Roy... 
TIN CUP What? 
ROMEO It's a water hazard. You go up there and take a drop. Try to save par like you did yesterday. 
Tin Cup's eyes blink with thought as Romeo's words get through to him. 
TIN CUP You're right.    What the hell was I thinking? 
And he starts down to the water. A THUNDEROUS OVATION greets his approach, and he raises his hat to salute the fans saluting him. 
CUT TO: 
120   INT. PRESS TENT - AFTERNOON                                120 
Tin Cup snarls at the impudent question of Reporter #3. 
TIN CUP I saved par, didn't I? 
REPORTER #3 I'm just trying to understand your thinking. You were in the same spot on eighteen yesterday without a headwind and you -- 
TIN CUP You don't think I can knock it on from there? 
REPORTER #3 It seemed like a low-percentage shot. 
TIN CUP So am I! Look at me. I'm playing for... (points at his sew-on patches) ... Rio Grande Short-Haul Trucking, Brink and Brown Sanitation, First State Bank of Salome, Wally's Smokehouse... You think a guy like me bothers to think about the percentages? -- 
CUT TO: 
121   EXT. WAFFLE HOUSE - NIGHT                                121 
A low-rent roadside cafe specializing in waffles. 
122   INT. WAFFLE HOUSE - NIGHT                                122 
Tin Cup, Molly and Romeo study the menu. 
MOLLY I've got some money from the pelican bet -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- get ready for the final round. 
TIN CUP Nothing to celebrate yet. Plus these are my people. I'm a waffle house guy -- gotta stay in touch with that... 
ROMEO Plus he needs his carbohydrates -- 
TIN CUP If the boys from Salome was in town -- this is where they'd be... 
The boys from Salome walk in -- with Doreen, all looking like hell from the long bus trip. They're ecstatic to see Tin Cup and Romeo. 
CLINT The legend! 
EARL God damn, we been driving for two days to help you in the last round -- 
JOSE Saw the Winnebago outside -- we're starving... 
DEWEY Sixty-two!    Sixty-two! 
TIN CUP We're home now! 
ROMEO You boys a sight for sore eyes. We so damn sick of guys in blazers and slacks that don't wrinkle. It ain't natural 'round here... 
DOREEN Congratulations, Roy -- we're with you all the way. 
TIN CUP Doreen, meet Dr. Griswold... er, Molly... my shrink -- 
MOLLY Ex-shrink. (matter-of-factly) We're sleeping together now so I can't be his therapist. 
DOREEN I knew it. 
MOLLY Knew what? 
DOREEN Nothing, dear. Good luck. (looking around) Say, I have a little extra cash -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- y'know, kinda get 
ready for the final round? 
But the Regulars overwhelm her. 
DEWEY This is the Waffle House, Doreen -- 
CURT Hell, I been dreaming of waffles for 1800 miles... 
EARL They got a waffle house in Odessa just about like this... 
JOSE Odessa?   It's in Midland, ain't it?... 
CLINT No, it's in Odessa. 
They all pull up chairs and settle in for a long evening at the Waffle House. 
Tin Cup follows the flight of his approach, and up ahead on: 
143   EXT. FOURTEENTH TEE - DAY                                    143 
Peter Jacobsen hears the GALLERY ROAR.   He turns to his caddie, incredulous. 
JACOBSEN He's throwing darts back there. We gotta make birdies, Squeaky, or we are playing for second. 
And he snatches his driver from the bag, determined to make birdies. 
CUT TO: 
144   EXT. LEADER BOARD                                            144 
The scorer posts -7 next to Tin Cup's name.    Simms is still at -7, as is Jacobsen. And... 
145   EXT. FOURTEENTH GREEN - DAY                                  145 
Jacobsen rolls a long putt into the hole, and as the GALLERY CHEERS, he points a finger of challenge back at -- 
Tin Cup waiting in the fairway.   Tin Cup seems to enjoy the taunt. 
TIN CUP That's right, Peter. You'n me. That's all there is. 
And he selects a club, and... 
CUT TO: 
146   INT. DRIVING RANGE (SALOME) - DAY                            146 
Tin Cup's fans, deeply into the beer by now, contort with body-english and holler at the TV screen. 
FANS Get in there!    Come on!   Go down! 
They explode with cheers.   Some twirl with glee.   Others exchange high fives. 
EARL He's tied for the lead again!    And they're running outta holes! 
CUT TO: 
147   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER - DAY                                  147 
The leader board is superimposed on the monitor.    McAvoy -8, Jacobsen -8, Simms -7. 
NANTZ So it's come down to the seventy- second hole of this great championship, and the skill and courage of three Texans who have dueled throughout the day for the chance to be crowned Open Champion... Peter Jacobsen is on the fairway at 8 under, McAvoy at the 18th tee is tied at minus 8, and David Simms trails by one... 
148   EXT. EIGHTEENTH TEE                                          148 
Tin Cup and Romeo watch Jacobsen hit his shot. 
TIN CUP Jacobsen's laying up. (turning to Simms) You ain't gonna have that luxury, Dave. Not if you play to win. 
He moves to the tee, and... 
CUT TO: 
149   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER                                       149 
The monitor shows Tin Cup's drive bounding down the middle of the fairway. 
NANTZ McAvoy's hit a perfect drive, Ken. 
VENTURI I'm not sure that's good news for McAvoy. With his inexperience, the last thing he needs is an excuse to fool with that water again today. 
150   BACK TO TEE                                                 150 
Tin Cup whispers to Romeo as Simms tees up. 
TIN CUP I didn't catch it all. 
ROMEO Then you got to lay up. 
Simms rips a drive down the middle, the ball landing a little short of Roy's. 
151   EXT. EIGHTEENTH FAIRWAY - DAY                               151 
Tin Cup in the fairway, studying his shot. 
TIN CUP So birdie wins it. 
He looks at Simms, ten yards across the fairway from him. 
TIN CUP You or me, Dave? 
Simms points to himself. He has a wood in his hands, but he puts the club back and reaches for an iron. Tin Cup edges closer to Romeo. 
TIN CUP (whispering) He's laying up. Birdie to tie, eagle to win, and that gutless wonder's laying up. 
ROMEO (whispering) Par to tie, birdie to win... you lay up too, Roy. You can make birdie laying up. 
They watch Simms lay up. Then Romeo offers Tin Cup an iron, hoping he'll take it. 
TIN CUP You know something, Romeo? Eagle puts me ten under. No one's ever finished an Open ten under, not even Nicklaus. 
ROMEO You don't need an eagle. Birdie wins, par ties. (firmly) Hit the lay up. Hole a wedge for goddamn eagle. 
Tin Cup throws some grass in the air, looks back at the green, the gallery, the whole grand setting... and he seeks out Molly's face in the crowd. He moves over so she can hear him. 
TIN CUP This is everything, ain't it? This is the choice it comes down to. This is our immortality... 
VENTURI (V.O.) Oh, my.   This is tragic. 
159   BACK TO TIN CUP                                             159 
Holding his hand out to Romeo, as the gallery murmurs uncomfortably. 
TIN CUP Gimme another ball. 
BACK TO DOREEN AND MOLLY 
watching behind the ropes. 
MOLLY I can't believe he's doing this. 
DOREEN (unfazed) I can, honey... 
MOLLY He can blow the whole tournament! 
DOREEN It's a miracle he lasted this long... 
CUT TO: 
160   REGULARS                                                  160 
waiting at the green, amidst the rest of the gallery who's in shock about Tin Cup's decisions to keep going for it, keep trying to prove a point. 
CLINT He done blew a gasket, boys... 
EARL The wheels is definitely falling off now... 
JOSE It was a miracle while it lasted... 
REGULARS' POV 
Tin Cup swings a third time. 
CUT TO: 
161   EXT. EIGHTEENTH GREEN - DAY                               161 
A BALL lands SPLOOSH! in the WATER, and... 
162   BACK UP FAIRWAY                                           162 
Tin Cup holds out his hand for yet another ball, saying nothing. 
Romeo hands him another ball. 
Tin Cup unloads another 3-wood.    Another splash. 
Tin Cup holds out his hand again. 
ROMEO This is your last ball, man. If this gets wet, you disqualified. 
TIN CUP I can make it across. 
Tin Cup snatches the ball from Romeo's hand. 
163   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER                                     163 
Venturi and Nantz can barely look at the monitor. 
VENTURI This is the most painful thing I've ever watched. 
McCORD (V.O.) Jim, this is the last ball he has in his bag. If he doesn't finish the hole with it, he can't turn in a card. He'll be disqualified. 
Venturi and Nantz cover their eyes. 
Tin Cup unloads another three wood -- another splash. 
164   BACK TO TIN CUP                                             164 
He looks at Molly. 
CLOSE ON MOLLY 
She's just laughing. 
Romeo tosses down another ball -- Tin Cup launches his fifth attempt to clear the pond. Splash. 
MOLLY You're right, Roy, what the hell! Let 'er rip! 
DOREEN You two are made for each other. 
BACK TO TIN CUP 
This is still all business to him.    He sets his jaw, addresses the shot, and: 
TIN CUP Dollar bills... 
He swings -- another perfect shot... but this time the wind relents a knot, and: 
165   BALL                                                        165 
clears the water, clears the slope, hits the front of the green, rolls up toward the pin, and drops in the hole. The gallery goes berserk! 
166   BACK TO TIN CUP                                             166 
Raising his three wood aloft in triumph, he looks over at Molly and finally cracks a smile. 
