To Sleep With Anger 
INT. ROOM - DAY  (EFX) 
GIDEON, a strongly built elderly black man, is sitting at a table. On the table is a large bowl of fruit. A crocheted tablecloth hangs over the side of the table. Gideon is dressed in a white suit and wearing a pair of well-polished wing-tip shoes. His hat almost covers his eyes, which are two points of greenish coals. The fruit in the bowl is engulfed in flames. 
The flames look as if they are DRIPPING from the tablecloth to the floor. Gideon's shoes start to SMOULDER. His shoes BURST INTO FLAMES which spread up his pants leg. His head falls forward as if he had suddenly fallen to sleep. He twiddles his thumbs very slowly in a circle. He crosses his legs as if to get comfortable. 
The camera moves to a CLOSE UP of his burning shoes. The image of his feet begins to appear through his shoes; the flames fade; the background changes as we 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAY 
Gideon's bare feet are resting on reddish dry earth. Gideon is sitting in his backyard under a fruit tree with a Bible resting in his hands. 
His house is a small, neatly painted bungalow in South Central Los Angeles. Corn, tomatoes, other vegetables grow in the yard. Chickens scratch around. 
He slowly awakens; his hands are trembling. He looks around and sees the chickens. He looks up at the sky and sighs, with some relief. 
SUNNY, Gideon's grandson, five years old, has been watching him from the back window of the house. He leaves the window. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
DOLLY SHOT OF SUNNY 
Sunny peeps in the workroom. Through the crack in the door, a Woman waves to Sunny. 
INT. WORKROOM - DAY 
The room is nearly filled with pregnant women and their husbands. SUZIE, Gideon's wife, late 60's or early 70's, a picture of health, is giving a last bit of instruction before the class ends. Some of the people are already preparing to leave. 
SUZIE Remember, especially you men, that working together now will already have formed a bond before the child arrives. The woman is very sensitive. 
Somewhere in the room a Male Voice booms out. 
VOICE (O.S.) Tell me about it. 
There is a bit of LAUGHTER as all start putting away their things. 
EXT. BACKYARD - DAY 
Gideon looks over at the chickens, scratching around in the garden. He calls to them, but they don't respond. He puts his shoes on and walks towards the back door of the house. Entering the house, he stops and waits inside the door peeping out. In a sort of devilish manner he talks to himself. 
GIDEON Spoiling the little foxes that spoil my vines. 
EXT. BACKYARD - DAY 
Shot of the backyard. Nothing. Suddenly, with the grace and suspicion of alley cats, kids jump over Gideon's back fence, look around timidly, and start climbing up his fruit tree. 
Gideon walks down the steps slowly while humming in a deep voice. He turns the water on and walks over to the tree, trapping the kids. Dangling legs, hanging from the tree, try to scurry up the tree to safety. Gideon sprays the tree with water. Wet kids fall out of the tree and in one motion leap the fence. Gideon cuts the water off and slaps the dirt off his hands. He is quite pleased with himself. 
EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY 
One of the wet kids is watching Gideon as he goes back inside the house. The boy signals the others who slowly follow in single file. They jump the fence and climb back up the tree. They let their half-eaten fruit fall to the ground. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
Suzie opens a letter and a picture of a baby falls out. Suzie looks at the picture before reading the letter. She tries to find a place for it among the other baby pictures that cover the entire mirror on the dresser. Gideon comes in and starts to undress. 
GIDEON My mind plays tricks on me. Is it okay if I take a bath now? 
SUZIE Everyone is gone. Rhonda is in the bathroom. 
RHONDA, Gideon's granddaughter, 13 years old, comes out of the bathroom. 
GIDEON What can I do for you, Officer? 
Suzie returns to the kitchen to clean the egg on the floor. Officer Scott keeps her in view. 
DAVIS You know it is against the city ordinance to keep chickens or live stock. 
GIDEON I always had chickens, ducks and whatnots. 
DAVIS Not anymore, not in the city. 
GIDEON We grow most of our own food. The money I get from social security, my pension and my wife's work, keeps us living on the edge. What choice do people like us have. 
DAVIS Well, you just have to move further out. 
GIDEON Now how far would further out be? 
DAVIS I'm not here to argue, sir. 
SCOTT You guys don't make anything illegal, do you? 
GIDEON Like what may I ask? 
SCOTT You might have a distillery pumping out barrels of moonshine. 
Suzie looks at Scott for a moment and goes into the kitchen. Gideon is about to lose control. Davis heads off the confrontation. 
DAVIS Look, just get rid of the chickens and you all have a nice day. 
Gideon stands in the doorway watching the Police go down the steps. 
GIDEON I'll be damned if I get rid of my chickens. I ought to get some hogs and put them out there. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
There is soft knocking on the door. Suzie enter frame wearing a robe. 
SUZIE Who is it? 
BABE BROTHER (V.O.) Babe Brother. 
Suzie opens the door. BABE BROTHER, Gideon's youngest son, about 31, handsome, wearing an expensive suit, comes in, beating the cold off of him and blowing in his hands. 
BABE BROTHER I was hoping you came to the door instead of him. It gets cold at night. 
SUZIE This doesn't make any sense; you are going to drag that poor boy out in the cold air. 
BABE BROTHER He will be alright. 
The camera follows Babe Brother. He passes Gideon's room where Gideon is asleep, snoring loudly. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Suzie and Babe Brother enter the bedroom where Sunny is sleeping. Suzie gives Babe Brother a blanket to wrap Sunny up in. 
BABE BROTHER Thanks for taking care of him. I will try not to be so long next time. 
Babe Brother gives his mother a good-night kiss. Gideon comes to the door. 
GIDEON What time is it? Do you think you can just treat us like your slave? It's after one. 
BABE BROTHER I tried to call to let you know I was going to be late. 
GIDEON That's a lie. 
SUZIE Let us settle this tomorrow. 
BABE BROTHER He wouldn't want any if you didn't try to keep it away from him. 
Linda leaves the table but stops for a moment and looks down at her husband. 
LINDA Because you were spoiled, don't try to spoil Sunny. 
BABE BROTHER My daddy never gave me anything without my having to sweat for it. Every summer, the way they kept me and Junior out of trouble was to send us to Big Daddy's farm. We would get up with the chickens. Every summer the fence had to be repaired. The barn needed a coat of paint. We had to pip all of Big Mama's hundred laying hens and go to church all day on Sunday. For Big Daddy, calluses and sweat were the mark of a man. Sunny will never have to bust his knuckles like we did. 
LINDA I want Sunny to have an advantage that you and I never had, but he needs discipline, and you are not helping when I tell him to do something and you allow him to get out of it. 
BABE BROTHER What is a sip of coffee going to do? 
LINDA Coffee is bad for anybody, especially for a child. 
BABE BROTHER I don't see you crying about my drinking it. 
LINDA How old are you? 
EXT. BACKYARD - DAY 
A SLOW CLOSE UP DOLLY SHOT OF SUZIE'S HANDS DROPPING SEEDS IN THE GROUND. 
Gideon is raking out the chicken coop. He puts the rake down and walks over to the garden and watches Suzie plant seeds for a while. 
GIDEON Instead of standing here doing nothing, I better give those chickens some scratch before they start cackling. 
EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY 
OLD JOHN is pushing his cart up the alley. Old John's face is washed so clean that it shines. His pants are dirty and his cart is full of odds and ends of no value. He looks to be about seventy and fit. Old John throws a sack on Gideon's fence. 
EXT. BACKYARD - DAY 
Suzie,is bent over a plant that she is tying to a stick. She looks up and sees the sack on the fence. A smile appears on her face. She goes over to the fence. 
EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY 
Old John is about to take up his journey when Suzie sticks her head over the fence. 
SUZIE How are you? 
OLD JOHN Tolerably well. I brought you some more rabbit manure for your roses. 
SUZIE It is so considerate of you. 
Gideon sticks his head over the fence. 
GIDEON Well, well, look who is taking up all the sunshine. Brother John, how are you doing? 
OLD JOHN I'm still here. 
Suzie leaves the two men talking. 
GIDEON Tell me something. How do you get energy to stay on the move all day? 
OLD JOHN You couldn't sit on your rump under my daddy's roof. No sir. If you couldn't outwork his mule, you wasn't worth the salt you put in greens. You had to wake up looking for something to do. I was raised as a mule and now I'm a rolling stone. 
Suzie sticks her head over the fence and hands a bag of red tomatoes to Old John. 
OLD JOHN (CONT'D) I didn't mean for you to pay me for that. 
SUZIE I know you didn't but you have been so thoughtful. 
OLD JOHN But when your sunflowers come up, I'll pay you for them. 
SUZIE I planted a row just for you and you don't owe me anything. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
Babe Brother's car, a new Audi, is parked out front. 
Linda is in the front seat reading a magazine while Sunny is asleep in the back seat. Babe Brother sticks his head in the window. 
BABE BROTHER Why don't you come in for a while? 
LINDA I would like to finish reading this. What would I talk about? I haven't read this month's almanac. I don't care to hear about how the corn was this fall or how to get rid of gophers by putting garlic in their holes. They pride themselves in making life hard and that's not my cup of tea. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Suzie, Gideon, Junior, Pat and Rhonda are still at the table eating. 
SUZIE You know, Babe Brother's wife just dumps greens in the pot without washing them. 
GIDEON Babe Brother is a poor boy. 
JUNIOR You all should have been hard on him like you were me and he wouldn't be the way he is. 
SUZIE Everybody got the same. I breast fed him like I breast fed you. 
PAT Junior, you are wrong. 
INT. CAR - DAY 
BABE BROTHER Just for a minute. 
A dirt rock HITS the front windshield. Linda lets out a little scream. Babe Brother looks around. Skip is on top of the roof next door. 
SKIP I didn't mean to hit your car. I was throwing at my birds. 
INT. FEED STORE - DAY 
Gideon is looking at the price of laying mash. He digs his hand into a barrel of scratch. Sunny also digs his hand in the barrel. 
Suzie is looking at new young plants. She gives the vegetables a thorough going-over. 
Gideon is standing in line waiting to place his order. 
GIDEON I need about five pounds of laying mash and you better give me about the same of scratch. 
While at the counter, Gideon turns and looks around at the prices of different items. Suzie brings her plants and puts them on the counter. 
GIDEON (CONT'D) When are you going to have a sale on weed killer? 
CASHIER You missed it. We had a two-day sale last week. 
GIDEON What kind of a sale is a two-day sale? I thought sales last a week or two. 
CASHIER Every day we have something different. Today's sale is hay. 25% off. If you have a horse or cow, you're in business. 
INT. CAR - DAY 
Sunny looks at the Little Girl in the next car; she has her mouth pressed against the window. She is missing a tooth. Gideon is behind the wheel while Suzie holds her new plants up to the sun, carefully looking at them. 
Sunny, seated in the back, pokes a hole in the sack of feed. The mash trickles to the floor as if from an hour glass. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Suzie is sitting in front of a table full of jars. Each jar has a shoot and is half-filled with water. Gideon is on his knees trying to fix the hinge to a cabinet. Sunny is sitting almost under him listening to him tell stories. Sunny has a coffee can full of marbles. 
GIDEON All of the preachers were down in the basement of the church confessing their sins to one another. They were way down in the basement 'cause they figured no one would hear them. One of the preachers said, it makes me feel too shame to tell how bad I have been. You know them young gals that sit up in the first row. I can look at them and forget my text. I'm just lost when it comes to women, even them middle age sisters. Then another preacher said, I don't think I can tell you what my sin is 'cause it's bad. Another preacher said, Brother, we all amongst friends. Tell us what's troubling your soul. Clear your conscience. 
Gideon takes a sip of water. 
HARRY Well, I don't want to put you out. 
GIDEON Man, put your boxes down and stay as long as you like. We have empty rooms since the boys got their own families and moved out. 
HARRY Well if you're sure, I won't be a bother. Oh, I don't sleep on no spring mattress. I always make myself a pallet on the floor. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
The bedroom door to Harry's room is cracked open. Peering through the cracked door, we SEE Harry asleep on his pallet. His back is turned to the camera. It is dead silent. There does not seem to be any sign of life. On the floor is a plate that has water in it. It looks like it is for a dog. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Suzie is peeling potatoes and Gideon is ironing. 
SUZIE Poor old Harry, he really must have been worn out. He has been asleep all day. 
Without anyone being aware, Harry has been standing in the doorway for some time. 
HARRY Good evening. It must be all the different time zones I crossed that makes me feel this weary. 
SUZIE You should go back and rest. 
HARRY No, if I rest any longer, I won't sleep tonight. May I use your bathroom to wash up a bit? 
GIDEON Man, act like this is your home. 
HARRY That's awful generous of you. I always ask to keep from wearing out welcome. 
SUZIE One can tell you are from back home. These people nowadays don't know what manners are. 
HARRY Where we come from, you had to know how to act right. You had to know how to say yes sir and no sir. You had to know your place. 
GIDEON You had to tread softly. 
The doorbell rings and Gideon goes to answer it. 
SUZIE Those days you could always find something redeeming about even the worst person. 
HARRY You remember that boy who lost his mind, Joe? You could hear him pitching horseshoes at night in the dark. He wouldn't miss a one. Make him mad and call yourself running in the house to be safe. He would pick up a brick and say "go on in there brick and hit somebody" and it would find its mark. 
SUZIE I was afraid to go to Marcus Bottom because of him. 
HARRY All those places that us coloreds lived, that we used to call Bottoms, have all been changed to Drives and Heights. Everything is in what you call it, not in what it is. 
Gideon comes back with Junior, Pal and Rhonda. 
GIDEON Harry, I would like for you to meet my oldest son, his wife and daughter. 
JUNIOR Pleased to meet you. So you're from back home, too. 
Harry and Junior shake hands, but Rhonda gives Harry only a nod of her head and a smile. 
Pat, who is pregnant, attempts to shake hands with Harry, but is forced to withdraw her hand because of a sudden pain in her stomach. 
PAT This boy must be turning over. Oh, he just kicked me again. 
Junior feels her stomach. Pat again tries to shake Harry's hand and again gets a jolt from her stomach. She finds a chair to sit down in. 
The SOUND of rocks hitting the roof causes everyone to look up. 
GIDEON It's the boy next door throwing at his birds. I'm just waiting on him to hit a pane in the window 
HARRY I'm going to wash up now. You all please excuse me. 
INT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY 
LINDA What's a toby? 
HARRY You don't want to be at crossroads without one. It's a charm that old people teach you how to make. I had one for a long time that belonged to my grandmother who had it ever since she was a child. (beat) In my travels I misplaced it. I have been looking over my shoulder ever since. 
LINDA I thought you weren't old fashioned. 
HARRY In some things. When we were children, there used to be an old man that came around and would snatch your soul if you didn't have something on you that didn't make a X. 
Harry is aware that Babe Brother is interested in the knife. After cleaning his last fingernail, he hands the knife to Babe Brother. 
Harry looks at the cards in his hand. He smiles to himself. 
HARRY Did you have your child at home? 
LINDA No. No. No. No. I had my Child at Cedars and Sinai. And that ain't no county hospital. You have to have cash or check before you come in the door. 
HARRY Some folks take that natural stuff too far. 
LINDA Junior's wife kept her afterbirth' in the refrigerator. That's why I do not eat over there now. 
HARRY Country people got so many strange ways, 
Harry looks again at the chicken that he is boiling. 
BABE BROTHER Did you ever have to use this thing? 
HARRY That is called a crab apple switch. It's for those bad acting monkeys and just the thing for a mean dog. Now I don't know if I actually did what I did or got my life and story mixed in with other folk's stories but I seem to recall that I had to use my crab apple on a boy from back home. I was up in Memphis working on the railroad, like your daddy who had an easy job. He would sing a song that had a cadence and we would lay track. Anyway I was coming down Beale Street and I heard this music coming from a saloon. Sure enough it was Emory. My daddy taught both of us to play but Emory was natural at it. Got in a blues band and what not. He and another boy had killed a boy named Hocker sometime back and they balled the Jack leaving town. Emory had lost one eye and had a scar running down his face. Bad luck I would say. He got to drinking that corn liquor. We went to his girl's room and he wouldn't stop drinking. He started talking about the old days and he went mad. He pulled his knife and I got to mine first. The lights went out. 
Linda picks up a card and looks at it. There is a naked woman on the back. 
BABE BROTHER Don't pick up the cards if you are not in the game. Did he die? 
HARRY I don't know what happened to him. He just ran out into the streets. (beat) I got some old records I want you to hear. I like the blues sung simply, man and a guitar. Or sung by a woman who had bad luck all her life. Don't ever let anyone tell you his life's story if it is of a weary life full of sadness. When I was a boy, a man told me a story of how he lost all of his sons and I'll be damned if the same thing didn't happen to me. 
Sunny is busy playing in the curtains. 
The SOUND of Gideon and Suzie arriving makes them scurry to get the cards put away. Harry puts his knife away just as Suzie and Gideon enter. Linda feels a little embarrassed. 
LINDA How was church? 
Gideon and Suzie are surprised to see Linda. They don't know what to say. 
EXT. MRS. BAKER'S BACKYARD - DAY 
Rodney walks around in the yard BLOWING his trumpet as loud as he can. The SOUND of the trumpet frightens Skip's birds. 
INT. BATHROOM - DAY 
Gideon is repairing the pipes under the face bowl. Harry is leaning against the door. 
HARRY How often is your wife called to help delivery? 
GIDEON It was slow. Now it seems like everyone is having births at home. 
Gideon takes the pipe off. It has rotted. Gideon cannot believe it. 
GIDEON (CONT'D) What could have caused this? I just changed this damn thing. 
HARRY Everything these days is made overseas. 
GIDEON You and Babe Brother hit it off so well. 
HARRY Course, it is your business, but I feel obliged to tell you that maybe you have not been fair with the boy. 
GIDEON I tried to teach him right from wrong just like I did his Junior. 
EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOON 
Gideon is standing with his hat in his hand. His posture is that of an extremely old man. 
GIDEON In weather like this, you cannot walk around bare-headed. 
He wipes the sweat from his hat band. 
HARRY We'll go a little farther. The walk will do us some good. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Suzie is peeling apples while Sunny, standing next to her, catches peelings in his mouth. Pat is sitting next to the window. She is uncomfortable. She loosens her pants, giving her stomach more room. Rhonda is leaning over the back of the chair with her arms around Pat's neck. They are in silhouette. 
PAT Did you do your homework? 
RHONDA Yes. (beat) Mama? 
PAT What? 
RHONDA Can I name the baby? 
INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Suzie knocks on the door. Harry comes to the door still buttoning his shirt. 
SUZIE I have someone I want you to meet. 
HARRY I'll be right there. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
Gideon in the background in the kitchen washing off the vegetables. Suzie and HATTIE are sitting at the table. Harry comes in and is surprised to see Hat tie. Hattie is in her late sixties but looks well. She makes a conscious effort to dress plainly. 
HATTIE I couldn't believe it when Suzie called and said you were staying here. How have you been? 
HARRY Girl, do you still sing and dance? 
HATTIE No, I'm a different person now, Harry. 
Hattie has a nervous condition that causes her to squint from time to time. Gideon comes in from the kitchen. 
GIDEON Haven't the years been good to Hattie? 
HARRY It hasn't been the years; it's been the men in her life. 
HATTIE Harry, that's not nice. I'm in church now. 
HARRY Why run out and close the barn door when the horse is gone? I remember when you weren't saved. That was way back yonder when the Natchez Trace was just a dirt road. 
HATTIE Some people grow up and change their ways. 
HARRY I know your mother ain't still operating that house of hers. 
HATTIE My mother passed on years ago. 
EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF HOUSE - DAY 
M.C. slams the door to his car and hurries up the steps, leaving HERMAN, in spite of his bad condition, to get out of the car the best he can. The car door almost knocks poor Herman over. M.C. seems rather youthful because of his energy and awkwardness. He is a large muscular man. 
Herman is a dried-up man with nothing, not even a shadow. He has a racking COUGH. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
M.C. gives Gideon a bear hug, lifting him off his feet. On seeing Suzie, he drops Gideon and rushes over to lift her up off her feet. 
HATTIE You know the saying, "your heart is in your left hand." 
HARRY Now I was trying to be nice, to make conversation, since we go back some. 
HATTIE I was quoting from the Bible. If the shoe fits, wear it. 
HARRY "Out of weariness, I spoke to my own heart; to leave it all and to die. And I gave my heart to know madness and folly." 
M.C. You ain't going to win playing the dozens with Harry. 
HERMAN You all ought to get along. 
HATTIE Harry, you know you remind me of so much that went wrong in my life. When I heard you were here, I made a special effort to come and see you. I see you are still a pile of wet chicken feathers. 
HERMAN Oh Lord. 
HARRY My sister, women can get away with so much. I don't have any enemies 'cause I don't live in the past. As Pushkin, you don't know him, said, "In the hope of glory and good, I look without fear ahead." 
M.C. Harry has got your number. 
HATTIE An empty wagon makes a lot of noise and you, tappy head, you ain't worth the salt you put in greens. 
HARRY Speaking of tappy heads, we ought to have an old fashion fish fry. 
HERMAN I don't have too many fish fries left. 
HARRY We can have it here next week. 
HATTIE Is this your house? 
HARRY Oh. I'm sorry. Gideon, what do you say? 
GIDEON Well, it's up to Suzie. 
SUZIE It would be nice. 
HATTIE In the meantime Harry can slaughter us a hog. 
HARRY I already have, my dear. 
HERMAN Please, M.C., take me home. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 
The children of the women in Suzie's natural birth group are huddled together SINGING "Ashiine Ca Chew". The voices of the women in the next room are audible. The kids go outside to sit on the porch. 
INT. HOUSE, WORK ROOM - DAY 
Most of the women have their newborns with them and are engaging in talk about how their other children had to adjust and etc. 
A young white mother, REBECCA WILSON, with both her children, a four year old and one just a few months old, talks with a deep southern accent. 
WILSON No one in my family ever been to a hospital to give birth. My sister has four children and all were born at home. My mother and her mother, it just goes on and on. 
EXT. FRONT YARD - DAY 
A mother leaves with her baby wrapped in a blanket. The kids surround her, wanting to see the baby. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Pat is looking at a book of baby names. Harry passes the door and stops. 
HARRY A woman in family way just reminds of spring and my younger days. 
PAT That's nice. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
There is one fish in the bucket. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. LAKE - SUNSET 
WIDE ANGLE SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLE 
Gideon and Sunny are sitting next to each other. The lake reflects the sky: a deep red. The eerie sound of a long train whistle breaks the silence. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING 
Harry, Babe Brother and Linda come in after staying out all night. Linda looks as though she is about to fall asleep standing up. She awakes and looks at Harry. There is dislike in her stare. Suzie and Gideon notice Linda fading away. 
SUZIE Are you feeling well? 
LINDA I've never been so tired in my life. Where is Sunny? 
SUZIE He is getting his things together. Babe Brother, you ought to take your wife home so she can get some rest. 
BABE BROTHER In a minute. 
Sunny comes in carrying his night-clothes folded neatly. He stands next to Linda. Harry, in a mild but demanding way, ushers Babe Brother out of the door. 
HARRY Take your wife and child home, boy. 
Babe Brother seems all too happy to obey Harry. After Harry closes the door behind Babe Brother, he turns with a wide smile. 
HARRY (CONT'D) I got a surprise for you tonight. 
Harry flops down on the couch and kicks his shoes off. 
HARRY (CONT'D) This old buffalo has been in the sun too long. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
Suzie and Gideon are getting the food ready while Harry, wearing a shirt that looks like it is made of shiny snakeskin, sits in a darkened corner of the room, cutting his fingernails with his knife. 
The door bell rings and Harry slowly walks over to answer the door. Suzie puts the punch bowl down and hurries over to meet the first guests, FRED JENKINS, an elderly black man whom she hasn't seen in years, and Esme Jenkins, his wife. 
SUZIE Fred Jenkins. 
JENKINS Suzie, you haven't changed and you, Gideon, if you don't look like John Henry. Oh, this is my wife, Esme. My first wife Lulie died. 
More people arrive, bottle-necking the doorway. Gideon helps the Jenkinses to a chair. Hattie comes with her brother MARSH, who is not too pleased to see Harry. OKRA TATE, an elderly black man with dark circles under his eyes, comes in limping badly with an old Polaroid camera hanging from his neck. 
Babe Brother, Linda, Junior, Pat and Rhonda, who is holding Sunny's hand, all come in together. M.C. drags Herman through the door coughing. FLIM ANDERSON and his son DOUG are followed by the twins, WILLIAM and LOVIRAY NORWOOD, who are in their late 70's. 
Babe Brother leaves Linda standing by herself to be next to Harry. 
Zenia Dent, an elderly white woman with a strong Southern accent, arrives with her husband, Howard Dent, a black man, who is in a wheelchair. The Twins and Howard are the center of attention. 
Okra comes over and whispers into Harry's ear. Okra leaves through the front door. Okra comes back in with a bag. Harry, Babe Brother, M.C. and Herman follow Okra to the kitchen. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Okra sets the bag on the table and steps back to allow Harry to unveil the bottle of corn liquor. 
BABE BROTHER What is that? 
HARRY Boy, that is the real South. That is real corn liquor. 
A crowd starts to gather around. 
OLDER MAN Get yourself a pace-maker like me. 
Linda is standing by herself. She watches Babe Brother and Harry walk towards the kitchen. Pat comes to talk to her. 
PAT These old folks can dance better than I can. Get rid of that long face. Get one of these old farts to show you how to do the Black Bottom. 
Okra, holding his camera, all of the attachments in one hand and a glass in his other hand, tries to offer Hattie a drink. 
OKRA Don't be so stand-offish. 
Hattie pushes him away. The drink spills on him. She turns and walks away. He follows her. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Marsh sits in a chair opposite Harry. Babe Brother stands behind Harry. Harry, knowing that Marsh is going to bring up unpleasant things of the past, feels the need to get rid of Babe Brother. 
HARRY Son, you haven't danced with your wife all night. 
Babe Brother is reluctant to leave, but Harry gives him a nudge. He goes looking for Linda. 
MARSH There is something that I always wanted to know. Tell me, how did those boys die? 
HARRY Now who are we talking about? 
MARSH Miss Clara's boy, Emory, to start with. The Johnson's Hocker was another one... 
HARRY Wasn't Hocker lynched? 
MARSH You know as well as I do that it was made to look like he was lynched. Now who would hang someone from a persimmon tree? 
HARRY What difference does it make if it's persimmon, oak tree or huckleberry bush? 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
Gideon, Babe Brother, and Linda go outside. 
EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT 
The sounds of the party drift out from the house as Gideon, Linda and Babe Brother talk. 
GIDEON Tell me, how come me and Suzie have to be mother and father to your child? You never take the boy to the park, circus or anything. If we did not take him to church, he wouldn't have any sense of religion. 
LINDA I think forcing him to go to church when he really doesn't understand is not saving his soul. When he gets old enough to make up his own mind about religion, that will be better. It will be his intellectual decision. 
GIDEON Is that the way your parents raised you? 
BABE BROTHER Why, you don't want us to bring him over? 
GIDEON No, it's that when do you have time to be parents to him? You guys don't pick him up until nine, ten at night. You are into yourselves, as the saying goes. Spend some time trying to be parents. Take him to the mountains, fishing. You ought to let him get to know nature. 
BABE BROTHER Well, you are his grandfather. He is supposed to spend some time with you. You're supposed to show him those woodsy things and this and that. 
GIDEON Junior spends time with his child. 
BABE BROTHER Oh here we go with that. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
Okra is trying to get enough light for his old Polaroid camera. M.C. takes a shade off a lamp and holds it next to the Twins, nearly blinding them. 
WILLIAM Hurry up and take this picture. 
FRED If it wasn't for the NRA, colored people would have been the lost tribe. 
FLIM Remember what they use to call the NRA? Negro Raggedy-ass Army. 
HARRY (CONT'D) What's the problem here? 
SUZIE She has a fish bone caught in her throat. Could all of you go in the other room? Gideon, get some bread and toast it quickly and find me the cod liver oil. 
The twin is holding her throat and PANTING like a fish out of water. She is in a lot of pain. William, the twin brother, is standing at the door with a tragic face. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Gideon is trying to get out of bed. He sits on the side of the bed and starts to COUGH. 
INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Harry has his back to the camera, sitting in a chair facing a wall. He is naked from the waist up. An empty plate is placed not too far from where he is sitting. He is cutting an apple. He licks the blade of his knife. 
INT. BABE BROTHER'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Babe Brother is asleep. Linda is dressed to go to work. She throws his suit on the foot of the bed. 
LINDA Are you going to work or sleep all day? 
He snores louder. She opens the window and pulls back the cover. The cold air makes him draw up. On walking out, Linda says in a rather hurt voice: 
LINDA Remember, you promised to take Sunny to Magic Mountain today. 
Babe Brother slowly gets up holding his chest as if his heart is bothering him. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
Gideon tries to put his pants on. He is too weak and sits back on the bed with his pants only up as far as his knees. 
INT. KITCHEN - MORNING 
Suzie gets up to turn off the coffee kettle. When the kettle WHISTLE dies away, the sound of Gideon's VOICE is heard calling Suzie for help. The sound of his voice frightens her. 
INT. BEDROOM - DAY 
Suzie bursts into the room and then moves very slowly to Gideon, who is sitting on the bed out of breath. 
GIDEON I'm worn out. 
SUZIE Just stay in bed and rest. 
GIDEON I have to feed the chickens before they wake everybody up. 
SUZIE You stay inside. I will see to them. 
GIDEON I will appreciate that. 
INT. DINING ROOM - EVENING 
Suzie and Junior are sitting at the dining room table. Harry, looking like he has just gotten out of bed, drags himself in. 
HARRY How is everybody? 
SUZIE Tolerable well. 
JUNIOR How did you sleep last night? 
There is obvious hostility in Junior's tone. Harry senses Junior's hostility and chooses to ignore it. 
HARRY Ah, you young folks don't know how it is. How is Gideon today? 
SUZIE He wasn't able to get out of bed today. 
HARRY I hope that it's nothing serious. 
Herman hands Harry the ax. Harry is poised over the chicken with the ax, appreciating the moment. Harry raises the ax. The SOUND of Rodney starting to practice his trumpet brings the rooster out of the trance. 
Before Harry can react, the rooster jumps away. 
OKRA Herman, you will have to catch the next one 'cause I'm out of breath. 
HERMAN If I have to chase after one, we won't eat. 
A sack drops over the fence. Okra limps over to see what is in the bag. He uses a stick to open the bag. He doesn't like what he sees and throws the bag back over the fence. 
INT. VETERAN'S HOSPITAL, WARD - DAY 
Suzie, Junior and Pat are standing around Gideon's bed. He is in a room full of old veterans who are apparently nearing the end. 
Two old veterans, one white and the other black, sitting opposite each other wearing medals, sit in silence staring into each other's eyes. A nurse empties an old man's urine bag. The old man doesn't show any embarrassment about his predicament. Gideon looks at how the patients are treated. 
GIDEON I don't want to stay here. (beat) Where is Babe Brother? 
INT. HERMAN'S ONE ROOM HOUSE - DAY 
M.C. is sitting on the bed, reading the job section of the paper. Herman is putting Vicks Vapo-Rub in a bowl of boiling water. He covers his head over the bowl with a towel. Okra is sitting at the table examining his gun. He points it at the floor, seeing if the sight is straight. 
Harry is sitting at the table with Babe Brother. Harry is showing him how to cheat at cards. 
HARRY Never play with someone's else's cards. You always get a new deck. Look at this card. See anything? 
BABE BROTHER It is just a regular card. 
HARRY Son, I can take everything you got with that deck. It is marked. Now I'm going to show you how to make some money in case you get stuck somewhere. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
A moth flies around the light casting a shadow that floats over everything. Suzie turns out the kitchen light and then turns out the dining-room light. She goes to her room and closes the door, leaving the room dark. A car headlight passing outside casts a moving pattern that moves along the wall. 
The light reveals Harry's presence standing in the hall doorway. 
EXT. HOUSE - DAY 
Gideon is being helped up the steps by his sons. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
Suzie is holding the door open while Gideon is carried in by Junior and Babe Brother. Gideon is led to a chair. He still looks awful. 
BABE BROTHER Doesn't he look a whole of lot better? 
SUZIE Well, you look better than you did yesterday. 
GIDEON Next time, I don't care how sick I'll be, don't take me back to the Veteran's Hospital. 
Harry comes out of the bathroom, having just taken a bath. Harry seems delighted to see Gideon again. 
HARRY Boy, I thought you were about to cross the river. 
GIDEON I tell you, I feel like a ghost. 
Harry signals Babe Brother to come over to him. 
HARRY Son, would you do me a favor and see if you could turn off that tap in the bathroom. My hand is too weak. And would you do me another favor? I don't like asking this but would you clean the tub for me? I have trouble bending over. 
BABE BROTHER Anytime you need someone to do something for you, just let me know. 
Harry flops down on the couch. Suzie sets a cup of coffee on the table for Gideon. Harry looks up from sharpening his knife on a hand sharpening stone. He spits on it. 
HARRY That smells like fresh coffee. 
BABE BROTHER Linda, how come you don't see that Sunny puts his shoes on right? 
LINDA Why in the h... 
Close to tears, she turns and with exaggerated care, puts the spoon down and gently puts Sunny in a chair. She starts to untie his shoes. Sunny stares at her while she keeps wiping her eyes. 
HARRY Let's give Dry Bones a call to see if he is coming or not. Okra likes to exaggerate, keep you waiting all night. 
Harry slowly gets to his feet and goes in the other room to use the phone. Linda watches him go. She is deep in thought. 
Babe Brother, attempting to cut the roast before it is ready, is pushed aside by Linda, who is almost out of control with rage. 
LINDA Why don't you wait? 
Babe Brother, attempting to forcibly cut a piece of roast, slings Linda's arm away. His hand accidentally hits her in the eye. 
Linda grabs the fork, poised to strike, but gains control of herself She looks like a person who is on the verge of having a breakdown. She goes back to putting the shoes on Sunny. 
Babe Brother, feeling sorry, doesn't know what to do. He automatically picks up the fork and washes it off. Linda picks up Sunny. 
INT. DINING ROOM - BABE BROTHER'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Linda is standing at the door, with a red eye, welcoming Harry's friends, which seem to be a long line of sickly people. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT 
Linda is busy serving everyone, running in and out of the kitchen bringing more things, and removing used plates, etc. Linda's eye is swollen and discolored. The guests look at Linda's eye and then cast a naughty-boy glance at Babe Brother. 
Linda stops serving to pay attention to an elderly man, who deliberately bends one of her spoons. She catches another man putting a fork in his pocket and an elderly lady putting a cigarette out in one of her plates. 
As she is about to confront the man about pocketing her spoon, a peal of LAUGHTER forces her to turn around only to witness a lady knocking over a glass filled with a green drink with her elbow. The stain spreads across the table cloth in an even manner like a single wave. She watches it move from one end of the table to the other. 
Harry is seated in the middle. The composition hints at The Last Supper. 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Linda is reading a book to Sunny, who has his coffee can of marbles emptied on the bed. The NOISE from the party in the next room is clearly heard. Every time she hears something CRASHING to the floor, she wrenches. Babe Brother comes in and stands in the doorway. Linda's eye is still swollen. 
BABE BROTHER You okay? 
LINDA I'm okay. Go back to your friends. 
Babe Brother closes the door and leaves Linda reading stories of Brer Rabbit to Sunny. She stops reading to look at him playing marbles on the bed. She smiles. 
EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - DAY 
Five weighty Women, dressed in church robes, and the Preacher walk up Gideon's steps. 
Suzie invites the church members in. 
PREACHER Sister, we've come to see how you were doing. We came to ask if we could pray over Gideon. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY 
Gideon is asleep. The church members gather around his bed. The Preacher puts his hand on the foot of the bed and discovers that there is something strange under the covers. Suzie looks at him and lifts the covers at the foot of the bed. Gideon's feet are resting on dead leaves. 
SUZIE I put some Plummer Christian Leaves under his feet to draw the fever out. 
PREACHER What else have you been giving him? 
SUZIE I crossed his stomach with cold oil and gave him some cow tea. 
PREACHER Suzie, I would think you would depend on prayer rather than these old fashion remedies. Let us read from the Bible. 
Rhonda and Sunny leave. Pat turns on Junior about talking bad about Babe Brother and Linda in front of Sunny. 
PAT You shouldn't talk about the boy's father in front of him. This is family business and we have to pull together. 
JUNIOR Whether the boy hears it or not, the man is still a jackass. Everyone should have some mother wit. 
LINDA Something just took control of him. He stays out all night and comes home with a pocket full of money. 
PAT It's probably Harry, but I hate to mention his name, because every time we say something about him something bad happens. 
EXT. BACKYARD - DAY 
Rhonda and Sunny are looking under a strawberry plant. Sunny has strawberry stains around his mouth and on his shirt. Rhonda is putting her strawberries in the bowl. After getting a bowl full, they lay on the grass, eating strawberries while looking up at the clouds slowly drifting by. 
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 
Babe Brother is driving along a country road while Harry, sitting in the front seat next to him, yawns. Harry is tired. 
HARRY Let us walk awhile. I grow weary when I sit still too long. 
Babe Brother's car stops in an orchard-like area. 
EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 
Babe Brother and Harry get out of the car. They walk on a path that takes them under low hanging tree limbs. It gets darker as they go deeper into the orchard. Babe Brother finds the going rough and loses his footing. 
HARRY Give me your arm lest you fall. 
Harry has to help him stay on his feet. Babe Brother finds it necessary to take Harry's arm. Babe Brother stops and Harry walks a few more steps ahead and waits for Babe Brother. Just ahead sitting on a branch is a huge white owl camouflaged by tree branches. 
BABE BROTHER I could swear I heard my son call me. 
HARRY You probably heard the wind stirring up those dead leaves over there. 
BABE BROTHER I heard his voice as clear as day. I better get back. Maybe something is wrong. 
Babe Brother turns and starts hurrying back before Harry can object. He walks slowly after Babe Brother who is doubling the distance between himself and Harry as he runs through the orchard to his car. Harry stops and looks around. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
Pat, Linda and Junior are seated at the table. The suitcases are in the middle of the floor. 
LINDA I told Babe Brother that if Harry sets foot in our house again, I'm taking Sunny and leaving. Just as I said that, here come Harry and his old resurrected friends, hobbling up the steps. 
JUNIOR Is that how you got that black eye? 
PAT Don't ask that. 
LINDA No, this was an accident. 
JUNIOR Sure. 
LINDA It was unintentional. 
JUNIOR Babe Brother reminds me of the story of the man who wanted to be sizable. He wanted to be tall but what he was really short on was brains. There was a time when people had moon fever were treated with leeches. 
The phone rings and Junior goes to pick it up. Linda's and Pat's attention is focused on the phone. Junior hands the phone to Linda. 
JUNIOR (CONT'D) It's that nut of yours. 
Linda hesitates but Pat takes the phone from Junior and puts it in her hand. 
LINDA What do you want? (beat) No. Nothing happened to him. 
Sunny and Rhonda enter. Linda turns to look. Sunny's hands and face look bloody from eating strawberries. She puts the phone down and examines his dirty face. Pat brings Linda a wet towel. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Suzie is sitting in a chair; her head is bent forward. Gideon is TALKING in his sleep. She awakes and nods off again. Harry sticks his head in. 
HARRY How is he doing? 
SUZIE As long as he keeps his throat clear, he is able to get some rest. 
HARRY I made a fresh pot of coffee. Okra and I thought you need a rest. I'll stand guard. Okra wants to talk to you anyway. 
Harry helps Suzie to her feet. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Okra is painfully standing on his bad feet. He is in his security-guard uniform, holding a bouquet of greens. As Suzie comes in, Okra tries to stand upright at attention. 
OKRA I brought you these greens and some salt meat. 
SUZIE That is very thoughtful of you. I haven't had time to tend to my garden like I should. 
Suzie takes the greens and puts them on the counter. She squeezes Okra's hand as a thank you. She pours him a cup of coffee. Okra eases down into the chair. He crosses his legs and starts massaging his feet. 
Suzie get herself a cup of coffee and sits opposite him. She stretches and tries to hold back a yawn. Okra looks at her in a slightly desirous way. 
OKRA You know Gideon and I are lodge brothers and it has always been a policy to take care of the wives if something happens to our brother. 
SUZIE You are very sweet, but Gideon has already taken care of everything in case something happens to him. He has a policy. 
OKRA If you become a widow, you will need someone around to fix the whatnots. We like for the widow to marry someone in the lodge. I know Gideon ain't gone yet, but there will be a lot of his old friends coming around to get in line. I just want you to consider this as a kind of a conditional proposal, to be first in line so to speak. 
Suzie keeps herself under control; she tries to find words to say. She stands up. 
SUZIE Excuse me. I have to go feed my dog. 
She turns the fire out from under the coffee pot and exits the back door. 
Okra unties his shoes and begins to massage his feet. 
INT. BEDROOM / EXT. YARD - NIGHT 
Harry is sitting by the bed, just visible through the window. He seems restless. 
EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAY 
There is only one hen left in the coop. The garden is full of weeds. The sunflowers are bent by the force of the wind. A bag is thrown over the fence. 
The shadows of pigeons flying overhead race along the ground. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Two shadows on the wall are facing each other. The shadows are the heads of two women, Suzie and Hattie. 
HATTIE You know Harry lied about how that boy Hocker got kilt. And it was Harry who saw Emory last before they found him hanging over a levee like someone would hang a hog. 
SUZIE I remember Harry always trying to help someone. He got Lulla's daughter out of trouble. He was always running to the store for someone who couldn't leave the house. 
HATTIE Harry always shows his good side and, like the moon, the other side is black. Back home he always did try to act like the colored gentleman. I'm telling you Harry is nothing but evil. I'm warning you -- you can't keep a wild animal as a pet around children. 
INT. HARRY'S ROOM - DAY 
Harry has a plate of food in his hand. He stands facing himself in the mirror, staring at himself while he eats. He opens the door to leave but Sunny is in the hallway with his back turned sweeping. Harry stares at him and decides to go back in his room. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
DISSOLVE: 
INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN) 
More injured people come but in spite of their condition they are told that they have to wait. There is only standing room. 
Junior and Babe Brother are standing next to the wall. 
On the other side of the room, Suzie is looking quietly at them as if she is in deep thought. 
Junior walks over to the reception desk. 
JUNIOR Why is it so crowded? 
NURSE Well, it is Friday night and a full moon. 
Junior whispers to Babe Brother. They both start to laugh. 
Suzie looks up and finds them in a fit of laughter. A faint smile appears on her face. 
INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN) 
Gideon is slowly getting up. He looks around. He calls for Suzie. He slowly gets to his feet. 
GIDEON Suzie, I'm hungry. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN) 
He walks by Linda, Pat, Rhonda, and Sunny, who are sleeping in chairs, on the floor and on the sofa. 
GIDEON Suzie. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN) 
Gideon opens the refrigerator and starts taking out bowls of food and placing them on the table. He puts on a pot of coffee. 
GIDEON Suzie. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN) (LATER) 
Gideon is busy eating almost everything in sight. A group of mystified and sleepy faces appear at the door. Pat, Linda, Rhonda and Sunny are all looking rather dumbfounded. 
EXT. BACKYARD - MORNING 
Everything is wet from the night's rain. The garden looks more like a graveyard. Moisture drips from the sunflowers. 
Gideon's nervous looking rooster jumps the fence and starts to CROW. 
Skip is out early throwing rocks at his birds. The rocks land on Gideon's roof. 
EXT. HOUSE - MORNING 
Babe Brother and Junior help Suzie out of the car. She has her left hand bandaged. They are extremely exhausted. They walk up the porch to find Harry holding the door open. 
HARRY I can't believe what I heard took place. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
On seeing Suzie, Sunny jumps up, knocking the can of marbles over the kitchen floor. He runs to give Suzie a hug. Sunny wants to touch her bandaged hand, but Linda stops him. 
SUZIE How is Gideon doing? 
RHONDA He is asleep now, but he was up all night eating. 
As Suzie goes to Gideon's room, she comes face to face with Harry. She doesn't say anything. 
She rapidly dials the number. There is a BUSY SIGNAL. 
LINDA (CONT'D) This has been a nightmare. 
INT. BEDROOM - RIGHT 
M.C. and Marsh are going through Harry's boxes. They take out old blues records, books, a big Bible, and books on Dunbar. 
MARSH These are letters to his son. 
Hattie reads the letters in a corner by herself. She stops reading for a moment. 
HATTIE I still don't know if I was right about Harry. 
She seems frustrated with herself not being able to come to terms about who was Harry. 
EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT 
A crowd of people are standing around looking at Gideon's house. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT 
The Preacher is sleep in his chair, SNORING loudly. Babe Brother and Linda are sitting together, talking in almost a whisper. Sunny is asleep in his lap. Babe Brother is finding it difficult to apologize for his recent behavior. 
BABE BROTHER I have more sense than to give up everything, my family, you and Sunny. It wasn't me, I mean the real me inside my body. I'm glad it's over. It's like a veil has been lifted. 
LINDA Like a veil has been lifted? 
BABE BROTHER It's like I've been swimming in muddy waters. 
LINDA Like muddy waters? 
BABE BROTHER It was like all those things old country people try to tell you what hell is like. 
LINDA You were in hell? 
BABE BROTHER I couldn't believe the things I was doing. It was like an internal struggle going on inside my body. 
LINDA Do you think you won? 
BABE BROTHER It was nip and tuck. 
LINDA And what lesson have we learned from all of this, Babe Br... Sam... I mean Samuel? 
BABE BROTHER I guess it proves you really care about me. You hung in there. 
Linda looks at Babe Brother for a length of time. 
GIDEON When are you boys going to fix that roof? 
BABE BROTHER Soon as I rest a bit. (beat) I meant as soon as we are back to normal again, anytime. 
GIDEON Here I am thinking about myself when poor Harry is resting on the floor of the kitchen. 
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Harry's body lies there motionless. 
INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY 
The Preacher is SNORING violently. 
Babe Brother is asleep on the floor. Sunny is asleep sitting on Linda's lap. Linda's feet rest on Babe Brother's chest. 
Junior and Pat are looking at the baby pictures. Pat is holding her hand across her stomach feeling the baby kick. Rhonda is asleep in a chair. 
