TOMBSTONE 
TOMBSTONE 
An original screenplay By Kevin Jarre 
Fourth draft 
March 15, 1993 
ROLL PROLOGUE OVER MAIN TITLE:  a collage of old photos, prints, etc., and silent live-action vignettes, all dark and heavily shadowed like a dimly-remembered dream.  The first images show the opulence of the Gilded Age, the epic vistas of the west, cattle drives and cowtowns with all their violence.... 
V.O. NARRATION "The economic explosion following the Civil War created an unprecedented nation-wide market for beef.  Previously worthless cattle running wild throughout Texas were gathered into herds And driven north to the railheads In Kansas.  Fortunes were made as Cowtowns sprang up on the Prairies, wide-open centers of Commerce and vice, their streets Choked with heavily-armed young Men fresh from the cattle drives. In those days the correct term For a cowhand was 'drover'. 'Cowboy', like 'cowpoke', was originally an insult implying deviant sexuality and was rarely used.  But these invading drovers were a wild breed for soon shootings and wholesale drunken riots became so frequent that ordinary citizens literally could not walk down the street.  In fact at their height the cowtowns had higher murder rates than modern New York or Los Angeles and there Was no law but that of the gun." 
A dashing FIGURE in a Prince Albert coat appears, long locks tumbling down his shoulders, twin Navy Colts thrust into a red sash at his waist, a tin star on his chest.  Next we see him in action, downing 3 barroom opponents at once, pistols FLASHING around the room like a strobe light: 
V.O. NARRATION "Straight-up at 75 yards or eye- to-eye at point-blank range, the greatest gunman of all time was an Illinois abolitionist farm boy named James Butler Hickok, better known as Wild Bill, the Prince of Pistoleers.  But Wild Bill worked His trade on the side of justice And as marshal of cowtowns like Hays City and Abilene he became a Legend, the one man who stood Between law and chaos." 
Now Hickock sits facing us, playing poker as a shabby-looking FIGURE with a gun steals up behind him and FIRES..... 
V.O. NARRATION "Wild Bill's fame spread nation- wide but his end came quietly in the spring of '76 when a strange cross-eyed little drifter put a bullet through the back of his head, apparently for no other reason than he wanted to kill a celebrity." 
Now a group of cowhands carouse a streetcorner, raising hell as 2 mustachiod young LAWMEN walk up, trying to quiet them down. 
V.O. NARRATION "In Dodge City meanwhile, Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson were Becoming known as fast-guns.  But Their fame had nothing to do with Shooting." 
Seeing it's hopeless, the lawmen whip out their pistols and start clubbing the drover's making them stagger and grimace, holding their heads.... 
V.O. NARRATION "Earp and Masterson operated more like modern policemen, using teamwork and persuasion to keep order.  Still, sometimes things got out of hand." 
An ARMED DROVER creeps up behind the lawmen, about to fire.... 
V.O. NARRATION "But Wyatt had a guardian angel." 
A REED-THIN FIGURE with a sawed-off shotgun steps from the shadows behind the drover and FIRES.  The huge blast WHITES- OUT the screen for an instant, making the drover seem to disappear.  The lawmen spin around.  The thin man breaks the shotgun open then calmly holds out his wrists to be cuffed. Earp looks at him in shock, mouthing the word "thanks". 
V.O. NARRATION "John Henry 'Doc' Holliday was the son of an aristocratic, highly cultured southern family. Trained in Philadelphia, he had Embarked on a career as a society Dentist when he contracted Tuberculosis.  Advised to practice In the west where it was thought The climate and clean air would Prolong his life, Doc soon Realized it was all only a matter Of time and gave up dentistry to Become a professional gambler and Gunman..." 
The scene shifts to an elegant Victorian home: a stern Jewish patriarch orders his darkly beautiful DAUGHTER upstairs as her weeping mother looks on.  The girl huffs up the stairs followed by her little white dog.  Next, the girl and dog are seen escaping through a window to the street below and a waiting cab. 
V.O. NARRATION "Others headed east.  Bent on becoming an actress.  Josephine Marcus defied her wealthy and Very proper San Francisco Jewish Family to run away with a Traveling theatrical company, Braving the perils of the Frontier on her own.  Dangerous as This might seem, it was another Age and women were so rare, their Presence so cherished that they Could travel virtually anywhere In the west in perfect safety." 
Now we see HORSEMEN silhouetted against the night sky, a hand knocking on a door, figures conferring in darkness, then more riders, moving west in restless haste toward the rising sun.... 
V.O. NARRATION "At about this time the Texas Rangers, having eliminated the Commanche threat, turned their Attention to the outlaw gangs Marauding along the Rio Grande, Cleaning up the border strip in 4 Years of hard riding.  Those they Could not indict or convict the Rangers put down in their Black Book, letting it be known that They could either leave Texas or Face summary execution.  This Resulted in the mass migration of The absolute dregs of the Texas Underworld to the most dangerous, Uncivilized part of the entire Country, the southeast corner of The Arizona Territory." 
A jagged, moonlit landscape, a lone prospector and his burro moving along a ridge, a pick digging into a rocky ledge, an ore car emerging from a mine shaft, finally a hilltop cluster of tents becoming the skeletal wood-frame beginnings of a town.... 
V.O. NARRATION "Harsh and inhospitable, savaged in turn by the Apache and Mexican bandits, this had always been an accursed place, a virtual hell on earth where it was thought life itself could never prosper, much V.O. NARRATION (cont.) less civilization.  Then in 1879, a prospector named Ed Schiefflin set off alone into the Dragoon Mountains.  Friends told him he Was crazy, that the only thing He'd find in this Godforsaken Place would be his tombstone. Instead he found silver, lots of It, and overnight the town of Tombstone sprang up.  Mining Taking out millions in ore.  Land Value shot sky-high and Speculators and gamblers and Opportunists of all nations Scrambled in by the thousands to Make Tombstone queen of the Boomtowns, so rich that the Latest Paris fashions, hard to Find even in the biggest cities, Were sold there by the wagonload From the makeshift storefronts." 
An engraving of a stagecoach holdup, herds of cattle moving north, a newspaper story of a massacre in Mexico, congressmen railing at each other, shaking their fists.... 
V.O. NARRATION "Meanwhile, the exile Texans had banded together to form the nucleaus of an organized gang. Seizing controp of the Surrounding countryside they Robbed stagecoaches at will while The big absentee business Interests employed them as tax Collectors and strongarm men.  But The backbone of their trade Remained border rustling, Periodic raids into Mexico to Steal cattle while engaging in What was described as a virtual Orgy of murder and violence.  The Raids became so frequent and so Bloody that the Mexican Government formally protested to U.S. President Chester A. Arthur, Prompting heated debate in Congress.  General Sherman Declared that the only possible Way of bringing order was to send In the army but in the wake of Civil War Reconstruction federal Intervention in civilian affairs Was politically impossible." 
Pounding hooves, flowing manes, a pack of night-riding HORSEMEN kicking hell-for-leather across the desert moonscape.... 
V.O. NARRATION "With only some 100 members, the gang was an elite body of gunmen, known by the red silk sashes they wore around their waists. Fiercely proud of their Terrifying reputation and Answerable to no one, they were a Law unto themselves, finally Emerging as one of the earliest Examples in American history of Full-scale organized crime." 
END MAIN TITLE as the screen fades to an ominous black and.... 
V.O. NARRATION "They called themselves the Cowboys." 
EXT - SONORA DESERT/CANYON ENTRANCE - DAY 
Burning daylight, hard reality.  A squad of uniformed MEXICAN RURALES rides through the Sonora desert, sabres glinting in the sun.  Approaching the mouth of a rocky canyon their hard- bitten CAPTAIN signals them to stop, leaning down to study a jumble of hoofprints on the ground.  He turns to the anxious- looking YOUNG RURALE on his right, speaking in Spanish via subtitle: 
CAPTAIN It's them, only an hour north. 
YOUNG RURALE But this is the border. 
CAPTAIN You saw what those animals did at That rancho.  You think a border Is going to stop me?  No, I'm Going to see them suffer for what They did!  I swear it on my soul! 
The Captain spurs his horse and they ride on at a gallop, plunging into the canyon.... 
DELETED 
EXT - SKELETON CANYON - NIGHT 
The full moon throws fantastic shadows across the high walls of the canyon as the Rurales ride through.  At the bend the Captain halts them.  The young one starts to speak but the Captain shushes him, peering into the darkness.  A few beats then: 
CAPTAIN Turn around!  Fast!  Now! 
But suddenly GUNFIRE erupts from the shadows all around them, blasting them from the saddle, each powder flash lighting up the canyon for an instant, freezing each victim in the moment of his death.  Then, just as abruptly the firing stops, leaving only the Captain, the young Rurale, and a 3rd Rurale alive.  Dazed and bloody, they struggle to their feet as 6 armed FIGURES emerge from the shadows, walking into the moonlight toward them.  With broad-brim hats swept up in front, silk scarves and red sashes, high boots and silver- studded gunleather, they look like 17th century pirates. These are the Cowboys:  OLD MAN CLANTON, the ageless, white- bearded leader;  CURLY BILL BROCIUS, 2nd-in-command, smiling, bull-necked;  IKE and BILLY CLANTON, the old man's sons; FLORENTINO, a Mexican half-breed;  and JOHNNY RINGO, dark, Byronic, with an air of something very strange.  The Old Man nods to Florentino: 
DAKE I see, off to strike it rich, Huh.  All right, fine, wish you Luck.  Tell you this though, never Was a rich man yet didn't wind up With a guilty conscience. 
WYATT Already got a guilty conscience, Might as well have the money too. 
Dake retreats.  Wyatt turns back to his horse testily. Suddenly: 
O.S. VOICE Boy, I'd know that sour face Anywhere. 
Wyatt turns.  His brothers stand behind him, smiling.  Though VIRGIL is a little older and heavier.  MORGAN a little younger and slimmer, they're otherwise identical to Wyatt, right down to their style of dress.  Wyatt breaks into a grin, hugging them both, his cool replaced with an almost boyish enthusiasm. 
MORGAN Well how do we look? 
WYATT Hey!  Virgil!  My God!  Morgan!  Hey, Boy!  You look great!  Both of you! 
Virgil's blonde wife ALLIE, small, fierce, and Irish, steps up with Morgan's fair, cameo-lovely young LOUISA in tow. 
VIRGIL Wyatt, you remember Allie 
ALLIE Good God, well he better. 
WYATT (hugs her, laughing) Allie-girl...And Louisa!  You're So lovely.  I'm at your feet, Darlin'.  Just at your feet. (turns to Morgan) Guess it's only right.  Ma always Said you were the prettiest. 
VIRGIL But she doted on the frowner 
Wyatt's handsome blonde wife MATTIE enters from the street: 
MATTIE Wyatt, I couldn't find a single Store that had laudanum any- 
WYATT Mattie, they're here!  Folks this Is Celia Ann but you can call her Mattie.  Or even Mrs.  Earp if you Prefer. 
VIRGIL Mrs. Earp?  Land O' love, it finally happened!  Mattie it's a Pleasure! 
All exchange greetings and hugs.  Wyatt positively beams: 
WYATT Boy, I sure been dreamin' about This.  God!  Since forever!  Wait! 
He turns them toward the stationhouse window, arranging them in a group and pointing to their reflection. 
WYATT There, look at that!  God Almighty 
Wyatt smiles, shaking his head. Morgan's starts to speak, but: 
WYATT Don't talk, just...yeah. 
They stand silently, studying themselves, together as a family.  Wyatt still shaking his head happily, drinking it in. Finally: 
WYATT All right, now let's go make our fortune. DELETED 
EXT - WAGON - MAGIC HOUR 
A large woman, Wyatt's black horses tied to the rear, crosses the majestic, forbidding Arizona desert with its red volcanic rocks and the giant saguaro cactus dotting the landscape so mysteriously, like huge, spiny hieroglyphics.... 
EXT - CAMP BY RIVER - NIGHT 
A camp by the river under a clear night sky dripping with stars.  After dinner.  The women, Virgil, and Morgan sit by the fire.  Morgan petting his dog, a sweet little foxhound. Louisa sits behind him, twirling his silky blonde hair, turning to Mattie: 
LOUISA Don't you love their hair?  They All have the same hair. 
Just then Wyatt appears on his stallion, galloping across the moonlit plain toward them, sitting his horse like a centaur. It's clear he's a magnificent horseman.  Virgil smiles: 
VIRGIL Look at him go, will ya?  I tell You, that's the real Wyatt, born In the saddle. 
MATTIE Oh, he can go all right. 
ALLIE Can he then? 
MATTIE Rather ride than eat. 
The women cackle lasciviously.  Virgil groans at Allie: 
VIRGIL Try to be a lady, will you? 
Wyatt rides up and dismounts, unsaddling the horse. 
MORGAN Give him some good exercise?  Sure Some stud.  Some string in fact. What're you gonna do, race 'em? 
WYATT Hope so.  Clean up with this boy. 
Louisa turns to Mattie, fishing in her bag: 
LOUISA Mattie hon', did you say you Needed some laudanum?  I have a Bottle right here.  Just be Careful.  It's full of hop. 
MATTIE You're a lifesaver!  Don't worry, I just get headaches sometimes. 
DOC Isn't that a daisy? 
BAILEY Just pick up your money and go. Sick of listening to you simper. 
DOC Now Ed, are we cross? 
Doc leans forward, revealing an ivory gun-butt under his coat. 
BAILEY Skinny lunger, your guns don't Impress me.  Wasn't for those guns You'd be nothin'. 
DOC Why Ed, what an ugly thing to Say!  Does this mean you're not my Friend anymore?  You know, Ed, if I thought you weren't my friend I Don't think I could bear it. 
Now a Cheshire cat smile we will soon come to know very well steals over Doc's face as he takes out his nickel-plated .38 Colt Lightning and .45 Peacemaker and lays them on the table. 
DOC There, now we can be friends Again.  But remember, Ed, Friendship is trust-so please Don't hurt me. 
Doc bats his eyelashes.  Bailey jumps up, boiling.  A long, sweaty moment, then Bailey LUNGES.  Doc spring up, grabbing him by the hair and jabbing his fist into Bailey's armpit. Bailey screams and doubles over.  Doc gives him two more blows, so light they hardly seem capable of the effect they're having.  But as he turns to give him another we suddenly SEE that there's a KNIFE in Doc's hand.  The bartender reaches for the shotgun under the bar.  Kate pulls a Derringer from her muff and puts it to his ear. 
KATE Touch that gun, I burn you down! 
He backs off.  Kate covers the room.  Bailey drops to his knees. 
BAILEY Oh, my God... 
DOC Does it hurt?  A lot?  Good. 
Eyes gleaming cruelly, Doc blows his cigarette smoke into Bailey's face.  Bailey sinks to the floor in a fetal position. Kate gathers up the pot as Doc retrieves his guns, looking around the room.  Then both back up to the door. 
DOC Well, good evening then. 
They exit.  The others look down at the groaning Bailey lying in a pool of his own blood.  A GAMBLER shakes his head: 
1ST GAMBLER Judas... 
EXT - STREET OUTSIDE - NIGHT 
Doc and Kate stride quickly down the board sidewalk to the hotel. 
DOC I calculate that's the end of This town.  And let's don't bother About the luggage, darling. 
KATE I been having the boy at the Hotel pack us up every night Since your streak started 
Kate points to 2 horses saddled and packed outside the hotel. 
DOC My sweet clever Magyar, so that's Why you're not wearing a bustle. 
Doc gives Kate a peck on the cheek as they mount and ride off... 
EXT - TOMBSTONE OUTSKIRTS/COTTAGES - DAY 
A small cottage at the edge of town.  As the Earps drive up we SEE a sobbing woman sitting splay-legged in the middle of the street while her husband tries to comfort her.  3 small children stand alongside them, watching in stunned silence as Cowboys FRANK STILLWELL, cocky, arrogant, and PETE SPENCE, lean, dark, heave their furniture and belongings out of the cottage into the street while snarling things like, "shut up...deadbeats...move it!"  The Earps stop, staring at this scene in shock, Allie looking ready to fight.  Virgil restrains her, Stillwell looks up: 
STILLWELL What're you lookin' at? 
Virgil looks at Wyatt who shakes his head.  They drive on as.... 
EXT - ALLEN STRESS, TOMBSTONE - DAY 
Unlike the dreary, weather-beaten western towns in movies, Tombstone is new and colorful, part town, part mining camp, a wild mixture of brightly painted wooden storefronts and half- finished stone buildings rimmed by clusters of tents and shanties, all perched atop a hill with a magnificent view of the desert and the purple Dragoon mountains beyond.  We HEAR the vibrant din of hammers and saws, player pianos, hurdy- gurdys, clip-clopping horses' hooves, and pealing laughter as the Earps drive up Allen Street, the main drag, lined with saloon after saloon, sidewalks bustling with drovers, miners, Chinamen, and sullen gun-toting hard-cases.  They pull up in front of the Grand Hotel and step down.  JOHNNY BEHAN, handsome, well-dressed, wearing an ornate crescent-shaped gold sheriff's badge and a ready smile walks up and shakes hands: 
BEHAN Newcomers, eh?  Names John Behan, I'm Cochise County Sheriff.  Just Hit town? 
WYATT Just this minute.  I'm Wyatt Earp, These're my brothers- 
BEHAN Wyatt Earp...Dodge City, right? 
WYATT Gave all that up.  Going into business. 
BEHAN Well I'm the man to see.  Besides Sheriff I'm also tax collector, Captain of the Fire Brigade, and Chairman of the Non-partisan Anti- Chinese league.  A man of many Parts.  Got a place to stay yet?  I Also sit on the Townlot Commission.  Got a couple of Lovely cottages coming up for Rent.  Here, let me show you... 
EXT - TOMBSTONE OUTSKIRTS/COTTAGE - DAY 
The Earps and Behan stand on the porch of the very same cottage we saw the Cowboys evict the family from. 
BEHAN The one next door and the one Across the street are vacant too. Same rent and I'll throw in a Good cleaning.  Believe me, you Won't find a better deal within Town limits. 
Wyatt looks enquiringly at his brothers.  They shrug.  He's calling the shots.  Wyatt shrugs back.  Finally: 
WYATT Guess we'll take all three. 
EXT - O.K. CORRAL/ALLEN ST. - DAY 
A large stable and corral backing up into a vacant lot. Wyatt's big horses feed in their stalls while Wyatt faces the stableboy: 
WYATT I'm getting tired of your gas. Jerk that pistol and go to work. 
Tyler goes pale, all pretense of courage gone.  Wyatt slaps him again. 
WYATT I said throw down, boy. 
Another slap.  Tyler stays frozen, blood dripping down his chin. 
WYATT You gonna do something or just Stand there and bleed? 
Tyler's done.  Wyatt plucks his gun away, handing it to Joyce. 
WYATT No, I didn't think so.  Here, Milt.  Keepsake, hang it over the Bar.  All right, youngster.  Out You go... 
Wyatt takes Tyler by the ear, dragging him across the room like an unruly child.  At the door he gives the ear a twist. 
WYATT And don't come back.  Ever. 
Tyler winces.  Wyatt shoves him out into the street then turns to Joyce casually: 
WYATT See how easy that was? 
EXT - CORNER OF ALLEN & 5TH STREET (STAGECOACH) - DAY 
Later.  Wyatt walks up to his brothers at the corner. 
WYATT Well we're off and running.  Just Acquired us a quarter-interest in The game at the Oriental. 
VIRGIL Acquired? 
WYATT So to speak. 
Down the block, unseen by the Earps, a wild-eyed Tyler is advancing on them with a sawed-off shotgun.  He is within 20 feet when suddenly: 
O.S. VOICE Why Johnny Tyler, you madcap, Where are you going with that Shotgun? 
Tyler spins around to see Doc standing in a doorway, smiling. Tyler freezes. 
TYLER Doc.  I didn't know you were in town. 
Wyatt spots Doc and walks up, brothers in tow.  Though they don't so much as shake hands, we sense a strong bond between the 2 men. 
WYATT Doc!  How the hell are you? 
DOC Perfect, Wyatt.  Simply perfect. 
TYLER Wyatt?  Wyatt Earp? 
MORGAN Going into business for Ourselves.  Wyatt just got us a Faro game. 
DOC Since when is faro a business? 
WYATT Didn't you always say gambling's An honest trade? 
DOC I said poker's an honest trade. Only suckers buck the tiger.  The Odds are all with the house. 
WYATT Depends how you look at it.  I Mean it's not like anybody's Holding a gun to their heads. 
DOC That's what I love about Wyatt. He can talk himself into anything. 
They laugh.  Frozen there.  Tyler begins to tremble.  Finally: 
DOC Oh sorry, Johnny, I forgot all About you.  You can go now.  Just Leave the shotgun. 
TYLER Thank you. 
Tyler scuttles off as Behan approaches affably.  Doc sniffs. 
WYATT Sheriff Behan, Doc Holliday. 
DOC Forgive me if I don't shake hands. 
BEHAN So how's Tombstone treating you? 
WYATT Fine, fine.  But I was thinkin', You know what this town really Needs is a race track. 
BEHAN Actually, you know, that's not a Bad idea, send a signal we're Growing up. 
DOC Little ahead of yourselves, Aren't you?  This is just a mining Camp. 
BEHAN See how everyone dresses?  Awfully Toney for a mining camp.  No, the Die's cast, we're growing, be as Big as San Francisco in a few Years.  And just as sophisticated. 
DOC I can hardly wait. 
WYATT Just his style, Morg.  Doesn't Mean anything. 
DOC So tell me, Wyatt.  I'm curious. Do you actually consider youself A married man?  Forsaking all Others? 
WYATT Well yeah.  Pretty much.  I mean I Was no angel when we met but People change Doc.  I mean sooner Or later you gotta grow up. 
DOC I see.  And what would you do if "she" walked in her right now? WYATT "She"? 
DOC You know damn well who I mean. That dusky-hued lady Satan. 
WYATT I don't know.  Probably ignore her. 
DOC Ignore her? 
WYATT I'd ignore her.  People can Change, Doc. 
DOC I'll remember you said that. 
Doc point.  Josephine has just walked in with the other actors. 
WYATT Oh, hell... 
She spots Wyatt and starts toward him but he looks away, as if ignoring her.  She stops.  Behan steps up to her, tipping his hat, very gallant.  They move toward the bar.  Wyatt turns to Doc. 
WYATT Satisfied? 
DOC I stand corrected.  Wyatt.  You're An oak. 
Josephine and Behan chat at the bar.  White nudges Joyce: 
WHITE Since when'd you start servin' Ladies in here? 
JOYCE Actresses.  It's different. 
Mr Fabian enters, dramatically gotten-up like Lord Byron.  The whole bar bursts into applause.  He bows.  Breakenridge jumps up from his table, excited: 
BREAKENRIDGE Here, Mr Fabian, have this table. 
He seats Fabian near the faro game, gets him some champagne. 
FABIAN Oh, thank you.  You're very kind. 
BREAKENRIDGE Mr. Fabian, I've got to tell you, That's the most wonderful thing I Ever saw.  What was that? 
FABIAN Henry's all right but he's no Match for the Melancholy Dane. (sees his confusion) Hamlet, dear friend, the supreme Role of any actor worth his salt. 
DOC (leans in, points to Wyatt) Here's a man you should meet, Mr. Fabian.  Excellent character study For you, the real-life actual Melancholy Dane. 
FABIAN Indeed, sir?  How so? 
DOC Well he hems, he haws, he talks Out of both sides of his Mouth-but all on a very high Plane, just like Hamlet. 
WYATT Getting drunk, Doc. 
Doc chuckles.  Suddenly Curly Bill looms over the faro table with Ringo and a drunken Ike Clanton. 
CURLY BILL Wyatt Earp, huh?  I heard of you. 
IKE Listen, Mr. Kansas Law-dog.  Law Don't go around her.  Savvy? 
WYATT I'm retired. 
CURLY BILL Good.  That's real good. 
IKE Yeah, that's good, Mr. Law-dog, 'cause law don't go around here. 
WYATT I heard you the first time. 
CURLY BILL Shut up, Ike. 
RINGO (steps up to Doc) And you must be Doc Holliday. 
DOC That's the rumor. 
RINGO You retired, too? 
DOC Not me.  I'm in my prime. 
RINGO Yeah, you look it. 
DOC And you must be Ringo.  Look, Darling, Johnny Ringo.  The Deadliest pistoleer since Wild Bill, they say.  What do you Think, darling?  Should I hate him? 
KATE You don't even know him. 
BEHAN Have you been out in the street? Somebody's got to do something. 
CLUM You're the Sheriff. 
BEHAN It's not County business, it's a Town matter. 
Outside Curly Bill starts taking potshots at a passerby's feet, making him dance down the street and scurry for cover. Curly Bill cackles.  Inside White turns uneasily to Wyatt: 
WYATT Why don't you just leave it alone? 
WHITE No, I gotta do something.  I don't Suppose you'd card- 
WYATT None of my business, Fred. 
Wyatt keeps dealing, Doc keeps playing.  White draws himself up and exits.  Outside, Curly Bill reloads and keeps shooting. White steps out into the street.  We feel a sense of inverted terror as he draws his gun and we SEE that his hand is trembling.  He crosses the street, coming up behind Curly Bill: 
WHITE Hey, Curly?  Come on now, boy... 
Curly Bill spins around.  White's gun stares him in the face. 
CURLY BILL Well, howdy, Fred! 
Back in the bar, Wyatt puts his cards down, looks over at Doc. 
WYATT Maybe I ought to go out there. 
DOC You will or you won't.  Don't look To me.  I'm going to sleep. 
Doc lays his head down on the keys, passes out.  Wyatt frowns for a moment.  Finally he stands, turning to Morgan: 
WYATT Go wake up Virgil. (turns to Joyce) Hey Milt, lend me a sidearm, will you? 
Joyce hands him a Colt from under the bar.  Outside White covers Curly Bill, trembling harder now.  An adrenaline rush in a man White's age is hard to look at, he seems so frail, so vulnerable.  Even his voice has a quavering edge to it: 
WHITE Hand that over.  Come on now. 
CURLY BILL Why sure, dad.  I'm only in fun. Here she is. 
With a reassuring smile, Curly Bill holds his pistol out butt- first.  White reaches for it, visibly relieved.  But quick as a snake's tongue Curly Bill spins it around and FIRES POINT BLANK into White's chest, blowing him over backward, the blast so close it sets his clothes on fire.   Curly Bill turns just as Wyatt flashes into frame and SLAMS him over the head with his pistol barrel, laying him out in a groaning heap.  Wyatt glances at White lying semi-conscious in the street, chest heaving, eyelids fluttering, making weak little bird-like sounds, smoke rising from his smoldering shirt and vest.  Clum runs up: 
WYATT Put his clothes out. 
Clum pats the embers out in White's clothes but as Wyatt starts to haul Curly Bill up he suddenly finds himself surrounded by Ike, Billy Clanton, and six other Cowboys. 
IKE Turn loose of him. 
WYATT He just killed a man. 
BILLY He said to turn loose of him. 
WYATT Well I'm not so go home. 
IKE Swear to God, Mister, step aside Or we'll tear you apart. 
The Cowboys tense up, ready for action.  Wyatt holds his ground, his hard, steady gaze zeroing in on Ike: 
WYATT You.  Come here a second. 
Ike steps up, full of brass.  Without warning Wyatt jabs the muzzle of his pistol into his forehead, snapping his head back.  Wyatt cocks the pistol.  The other Cowboys hush.  Ike freezes.  Wyatt's eyes bore into him. 
WYATT You die first, get it?  The others Might get me in a rush but before That I'm gonna make your head Into a canoe.  Understand? 
Ike stands stock still.  Billy steps forward, undaunted: 
BILLY He's bluffin'!  Let's rush him! 
This is it.  The Cowboys poise themselves, ready to start, but: 
O.S. VOICE And you, you simpleton, you're next. 
Again a hush.  Doc stands behind Wyatt, still drunk, but with his .38 trained on Billy.  Billy sneers: 
BILLY Hell, he can't hit nothin'.  He's So drunk he's probably seein' Double. 
Doc pulls out his .45, training it, too, on Billy: 
DOC I have two guns.  One for each of you. 
Billy pauses, chastened.  Suddenly there's another commotion as Virgil and Morgan bull their way through the crowd from behind with shotguns. 
VIRGIL All right, look out!  Break it up. Go home, all of you, go home now... 
This breads the group's will and things suddenly calm down dramatically as the Cowboys disperse.  Wyatt lowers his pistol, heaving a sigh of relief as he pulls the still-groggy Curly Bill to his feet and hauls him reeling toward the jail. 
WYATT Nothing to do with me?  I'm your Brother for Christ's sake.  God, I Don't believe this. (turns to Morgan) Talk to him, will you?  Or hit him. (no answer, pauses) Oh no, don't tell me... 
Morgan looks down in sheepish silence.  Then he pulls back his coat, revealing the Deputy's badge on this vest.  Wyatt groans. 
MORGAN Like you said, Wyatt.  We're Brothers.  Gotta back your Brother's play.  Just did like I Figured you would. 
WYATT Listen to me, both of you.  This Is no good.  This is trouble we Don't need.  For the first time in Our lives we got a chance to stop Wandering and finally be a Family.  Do this and you throw it All away.  You saw what happened To Fred White. 
MORGAN Come on, we're not about pickin' Fights.  Just gonna keep a little Order, that's all. 
WYATT Yeah? 
MORGAN Like you said, just gotta know How to handle 'em.  Old Fred Wasn't up to it.  We know that We're doin', Wyatt. 
WYATT All right, say you're right, say You don't get yourself killed. There's something else. (turns to Morgan) It's too late for Virge, he Already rolled his bone.  But it's Not too late for you, Morg. 
MORGAN What're you talkin' about? 
Wyatt exhales wearily then crouches down in front of his baby brother, looking deep in his eyes, his voice soft, plaintive: 
WYATT All the years I worked the Cowtowns, I was only ever mixed Up in one shooting.  Just one.  A Man got killed.  Wasn't my fault, Just doin' my job.  I don't even Know if it was my bullet that Dropped him, but... I don't kno, It's sort of hard to explain.  At First I just felt funny, you Know, kind of clammy inside.  But When it finally sunk in what I'd Done... Believe me, boy, you Don't ever want to feel that way. Not ever. (pauses) Didn't even make a dent, did I? (stands, exits) You're both makin' a big mistake. 
EXT - DESERT, HOOKER RANCH - DAY 
Armed with a borrowed pistol and carbine, Wyatt gallops through the desert on one of his other big blacks, eyes scanning the tracks beneath him.  He rides up and stops at a well near a large ranch house.  He dismounts, studying tracks as rancher HENRY HOOKER rides up, strong, noble-looking, like something from a Frederic Remington canvas.  Wyatt nods. Hooker nods back. 
WYATT This Hooker's ranch? 
HOOKER That's right.  And I'm Hooker. 
WYATT You seen anything of a man on Horseback leading a black Stallion? 
Hooker suddenly falls silent, looking at the ground nervously. 
WYATT Well you must've seen somethin', The trail runs right by your Waterhole. (no answer) Oh, I see.  So it must've been a Cowboy, right?  Really got you People treed, don't they? 
HOOKER Look, Mister, it's fine for you Boomers to court trouble, you're Just passin' through.  Us Cattlemen gotta live here.  Best I Can do's point you up to the cut. That's their roost. 
Wyatt nods his thanks.  Hooker looks down, ashamed.  Wyatt stares at him a moment.  There's something genuinely troubling about so strong a man living in fear.  Wyatt rides on, shaking his head.... 
INT - DESERT CAMP - DAY 
A small camp near a clump of trees.  Pony Deal brews coffee while McMasters leans against a fallen oak log feeding an eager pack of mongrel pups from a block of jerky as Wyatt rides up. 
MCMASTERS Run for your lives, boys!  It's That great two-gun dog-catcher From Kansas! 
WYATT McMasters, isn't it?  Listen, you Seen a black stallion with- 
MCMASTERS Look, I got a rule.  I don't talk To lawmen.  Dog-catchers neither. 
WYATT I'm not a lawman, I'm just a Private citizen getting' my Property back 
MCMASTERS Well in that case, I saw your Horse.  Billy Clanton was takin' Him up to the Cut to show him Off.  The boys're all up there Right now, branding.  And in a Mood.  Still want your property Back, Mr. Private Citizen? 
EXT - MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY 
Wyatt and McMasters ride along side-by-side through the hills. 
WYATT So what about you Cowboys anyway? 
MCMASTERS If I had to explain it you Wouldn't understand.  Just say We're brothers to the bone. 
WYATT Yeah, but some of the things they Say your brothers've done... 
MCMASTERS There's all kinds of horses, Ain't there?  Same with Cowboys. What they do's their affair.  I Don't preach and I don't judge.  I Ain't no dog-catcher. 
EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - DAY 
A wide plateau in the mountains dotted with tents, water and fee troughs, rope corrals, etc.  Cowboys cut out steers while others crouch around fires, cooking, looking up with naked hostility as Wyatt rides up.  McMasters points to the edge of camp where Billy Clanton is currying Wyatt's stallion. 
MCMASTERS You seem like a nice fella.  Like To've know you better.  Had you lived. 
Wyatt rides on, making for Billy.  Ike steps up with INDIAN HAWK SWILLING, the giant half-breed.  They walk alongside Wyatt. 
IKE Hey, law-dog.  The hell you doin' here? 
SWILLING How 'bout I just drag you off That horse and eat you blood raw? 
Wyatt ignores them, riding up to within 20 feet of Billy and dismounting.  Billy looks up, supremely confident and unconcerned. 
WYATT Where'd you get that horse? 
BILLY Beauty, ain't he? 
FLY What mood would you like for this Picture, Miss Marcus?  Any Particular occasion you're Commemorating? 
JOSEPHINE O.S. I want to remember exactly how I Looked on this day so I want you To take a picture of me... 
She steps out wearing a diaphonous veil shrouding her from head to toe.  Though it partially obscures her form, we can see that she's completely nude underneath.  Fly gasps. 
JOSEPHINE ...all of me. 
Fly fumbles with his camera, his composure gone.  She turns to a nearby mirror, studying herself-black tresses, rounded lips, maddening curves, and smokey eyes-a dark angel.  She smiles: 
JOSEPHINE Because I'm wonderful. 
INT - WYATT'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Mattie lies in bed, lost in an opium dream.  She snaps out of it and sits up as Wyatt enters and gives her a kiss, glancing at the half-empty laudanum bottle on the nightstand. 
WYATT That the bottle Lou gave you? Better go easy on that stuff. 
MATTIE I know what I'm doing.  Where have You been? 
WYATT Out ridin'.  So... how you doin'? 
MATTIE I don't know.  I'm all right. 
WYATT Really?  You sure? 
MATTIE Sure I'm sure.  What is this? 
Wyatt sits down on the bed, suddenly intent, his face alight: 
WYATT Well, I was thinking, we've Already made a pile of money. Maybe we should just pull up Stakes and move on.  And we could Stay on the move, you know?  Just Keep going, see the world.  Live On room service the rest of our Lives.  How'd that be? 
MATTIE Wyatt, what're you talkin' about? 
WYATT Just thinkin' out loud.  Forget it. 
INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT 
Dark circles under his eyes, looking dreadful, Doc is at the corner table with Virgil, Behan, Ike Clanton, and the McLaurys.  Josephine lounges by the piano, luscious in a white gown, singing "Frankie and Johnny" in a torchy voice.  Wyatt enters, blanching at the sight of Josephine.  Joyce appears at his elbow: 
JOYCE New singer.  Ain't she somehin'? 
Wyatt nods weakly.  Josephine gives him a half-smile.  Wyatt blushes.  Morgan approaches. 
MORGAN Doc won't quit, been up 36 hours. Clanton came in an hour ago, they Switched over to poker.  Tried to Get him to bed but he just won't Let go. 
WYATT I know.  And nobody can make him. 
They go over to Doc's table and sit down.  Doc beams drunkenly: 
DOC Wyatt!  Just in time.  Pull up a chair. 
WYATT Been hittin' it awful hard, Doc. 
DOC Nonsense, I have not yet begun to Defile myself. 
WYATT (touches his shoulder) But Doc- 
DOC I won't be pawed at, thank you Very much 
WYATT Sorry, sorry... 
KATE (puts arm around Doc) That's right.  Doc can go all day And all night and then some. Doc's my man.  Doc's my lovin' Man.  Have another one, lovin' man. 
She kisses Doc.  Behan nudges Wyatt: 
BEHAN What d'you think of the singer? 
WYATT Nice voice. 
BEHAN That's not what I meant. 
Behan gives him a wink.  Wyatt shifts uneasily in his seat. This hand is down to Doc and Ike and the pot is huge.  Doc shows his hand.  Ike throws his cards down in a drunken rage: 
IKE Son of a bitch!  That's twelve Straight hands!  Nobody's that lucky. 
The Earps stiffen as the Cheshire cat smile comes over Doc: 
DOC Why, Ike, whatever do you mean? 
VIRGIL Come on, boys, take it easy. 
DOC Maybe poker's not your game, Ike. I know, let's have a spelling Contest! 
IKE Bastards think they can cheat me? 
JOYCE Nobody cheated you, Ike.  Go home. 
Ike reaches across the bar and slaps him.  Joyce scowls, more irritated than hurt and too tired to make anything of it.  The few other patrons left look up drowsily.  Ike nods in drunken satisfaction, picking up his rifle: 
IKE And I don't take no mouth from Any bartenders neither.  There, See?  Give somebody a rap on the beezer, get some God damn respect Around here.  Now you tell the Earps and Doc Holliday if I see 'em on the street, I'm gonna send 'em all to hell on a shutter.  You tell 'em that. 
Ike and the McLaurys storm off as Virgil and Morgan step out onto the street.  Wyatt turns to them in disbelief: 
WYATT What the hell's going on? 
EXT - ALLEN ST/TELEGRAPH OFFICE - DAY 
Walking down Allen, Ike stops the group at the telegraph office: 
IKE I want to send a telegram. 
EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY 
We start to feel a growing sense of dread as 3 grim HORSEMEN come galloping out of the desert toward us.  Billy Clanton, Wes Fuller, and Billy Claiborne ride into town, trotting by the jail with the Earps looking on. 
VIRGIL Billy Clanton, Wes Fuller, and Billy Claiborne.  Now there's six Of 'em.  This is like a bad dream. 
WYATT Just stay calm, use your head. It'll be all right.  Just the Same, though... (pauses, sighs) Guess you better swear me in. 
INT - WYATT'S HOUSE - DAY 
In tight on a brass-mounted wooden case.  It opens to reveal a gleaming Colt .45 with an extra long barrel, the gold shield inlaid on the burr walnut grips engraved with, "To Wyatt Earp, Peacemaker..."  This is the Buntline Special, Wyatt Earp's legendary sidearm.  Wyatt takes it from the case and puts it in his coat pocket as Mattie looks on. 
MATTIE Thought you swore you'd never Carry that thing again. 
WYATT Yeah, well, I swore a lot of things. 
EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY 
Behan and Jospehine watch from the hotel as the 6 Cowboys, all but Ike armed with pistols, walk side-by-side down the middle of Allen. 
BEHAN I'm terribly afraid this looks Like the end of the Earp brothers. 
Josephine goes pale... 
EXT - ALLEN ST/JAIL - DAY 
The Cowboys swagger by defiantly, giving the Earps sidelong glances.  Meanwhile, the street starts to BUZZ, townspeople beginning to notice that something is happening. 
VIRGIL Here they are again.  Look at 'em. 
WYATT Easy, Virge, they're just tryin' To egg us on. 
Suddenly Doc appears from around a corner, a little the worse for wear in a long, dark Inverness cloak and carrying a big gold-headed walking stick. 
MORGAN What're you doin' out of bed, Doc? 
DOC What the hell's going on?  I've Had five people walk up to me Saying the Clantons and McLaurys Are gunning for me. 
EXT - LOT BEHIND O.K. CORRAL - DAY 
A vacant lot behind the OK Corral with Fly's Gallery on the left and the Harwood house on the right.  The Cowboys stand in a knot near their horses, passing a bottle around. 
FRANK Like to teach those bastards a lesson. 
BILLY Probably already scared them to death. 
TOM You call it, Ike.  What're we gonna do? 
IKE (grabs bottle) Gimme that. 
EXT - ALLEN ST/JAIL - DAY 
Virgil comes out of the nearby Wells Fargo office with a huge Stevens 10 gauge shotgun just as Joyce runs up. 
JOYCE Those Cowboys're tellin' Everybody in town they're gonna Clean you out.  They're down in That lot right now behind the OK Corral. 
WYATT Don't worry, Doc, it's not your problem. You don't have to mix up in this. 
Doc turns on Wyatt, genuinely shocked and hurt. 
DOC That's a hell of a thing for you To say to me. 
VIRGIL What the hell're we gonna do? 
WYATT Wait till the liquor wears off. Once they start getting headaches They'll lose interest. 
Doc opens his arms, giving Frank a clear shot at his chest. Frank FIRES.  The bullet grazes Doc's holster.  Frank trudges closer, about to fire again but Doc DRILLS him through the heart while in the next millisecond Morgan FIRES from his prone position on the ground, the big .45 BLAST carrying away the top of Frank's head.  As the last shot echoes through the hills, Frank flops limply to the ground like a rag doll while out in the street his brother Tom finally runs out of steam and pitches face first in the dirt, leaving only Billy, leaning against the Harwood house, legs splayed out in front of him, absolutely shot to pieces, clicking his empty gun and wailing piteously as the smoke clears: 
BILLY More cartridges!  Somebody load my gun... 
He keeps repeating it with sinking volume as townspeople step timidly into the street.  Fly bends down and takes Bill's gun from his hand and the fight is officially over, having lasted only some 20 seconds.  Wyatt helps Morgan to his feet as Behan strides briskly onto the scene, addressing Wyatt: 
BEHAN All right.  You're all under Arrest. 
Wyatt looks at him in utter disbelief.  Finally: 
WYATT I don't think I'll let you arrest Us today, Behan.  Maybe tomorrow. 
More bystanders arrive, a crowd scene rapidly developing.  The Earp women run up from the west end of Fremont.  Josephine fights her way through the crowd from the east.  She and Wyatt catch sight of each other.  She grins, tears in her eyes.  He nods, smiling.  Seeing the whole thing, Behan fumes.  And so does MATTIE who turns and walks away while Allie and Lou run to their men, hugging them.  Meanwhile Doc stands over Frank's body, fingering the graze over his thigh, jeering under his breath: 
DOC You call that shooting? 
FLY (comes up to Wyatt) The McLaurys are both dead.  Billy Clanton's just about gone. 
Wyatt nods, pocketing his gun, sadly surveying the bloody scene. 
WYATT Guess we did our good deed for today. 
DELETED 
EXT - BOOT HILL - SUNSET 
Fireworks EXPLODE in the darkening sky as a cortege of 50 Cowboys in their finest parade down the street toward Boot Hill, the crude little grave yard, Curly Bill and Ringo in the lead, Ike right behind with the 3 coffins and a banner saying: "Murdered On The Streets Of Tombstone".  As they take places at the gravesite Wyatt approaches Curly Bill. 
WYATT I'm sorry.  If there was any other- 
CURLY BILL I know.  Just did what you had to. That banner and stuff, that's Just Ike.  Don't worry about it. 
Wyatt nods, tips his hat, walks off.  Looking after him, Curly Bill whispers: 
CURLY BILL Don't worry about a thing 
DELETED 
INT- MORGAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
Morgan lies in bed, his shoulder in bandages.  Wyatt sits by him 
WYATT How you doin', boy? 
MORGAN Fine.  Better. 
Morgan looks out the window, staring at nothing.  He looks tired, older, all the fun and youthful zest gone from his face. 
MORGAN You were right.  It's nothin' like I thought.  I almost wish... 
WYATT I know, kid.  I know.  Me too. 
Wyatt touches his arm, a look of unutterable sadness in his eyes.  This is the one thing he didn't want for his little brother.... 
EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - NIGHT 
The Cowboys are gathered around a huge bonfire, sparks drifting up toward the heavens, faces vivid in the firelight like an ancient warrior host.  Curly Bill faces them, bottle in hand: 
CURLY BILL Here's to the memory of Billy Clanton and Tom and Frank McLaury.  They went out real Cowboys, dead game right up to Their last kick.  They won their Places at the big table with Davy Crockett and Wild Bill and Old Man Clanton.  They're up there Right now tradin' shots with 'em. And they'll never be forgot.  Not Ever.  Hundred years from now There'll be men settin' around a Campfire, passin' a bottle, Tellin' stories about those boys. They're what you call immortal. And I say God bless 'em. 
They all drink, long and deep, Ringo wiping away tears.  Then: 
CURLY BILL All right, first we hang back, Just bide away till everybody Thinks this's blown over.  Then... 
INT - DRESSING ROOM/BEDROOM, WYATT'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Mattie irons shirts in the adjoining bedroom while Wyatt finishes shaving in the dressing room, wiping foam from his face, looking in the cabinet for a towel.  Opening the bottom drawer, a nest of small brown bottles clatters onto the floor. Laudanum bottles, all empty.  Mattie looks up as Wyatt comes out, bottle in hand: 
WYATT Mattie.  What about this? 
MATTIE (looks up, keeps ironing) I need it. 
WYATT 'Least you admit it. 
MATTIE Admit what, I'm an opium fiend? No, Wyatt, I just said I need it. I need something to keep me warm At night. 
WYATT Look, Mattie, I know you're- 
MATTIE You know nothing.  What you don't Know would fill a book.  Jesus, I Feel like it's when you're around I need it most.  You're never Yourself, you never relax.  Never. Everything's so stiff and dead. You always have to keep a rein on Everything, ever yourself.  Oh, You smile sometimes, I've even Seen you laugh.  But there's no Light in your smile for me, Wyatt, nothing to keep me warm. And I get cold, Wyatt.  I get so cold. (pauses) What's between you and that Jew woman? 
This catches Wyatt off-guard.  He looks at her.  She sneers. Then: 
WYATT All right, look.  I can make it Right, I can make this up to you, Mattie.  I can, I swear. 
At the last possible instant, Curly Bill flashes into frame along with Stillwell and Spence, grabbing Ringo from behind while the Earps step in front of Doc. 
CURLY BILL Johnny, don't, Jesus!  Come on, Son... (turns to Earps) Never mind.  He's drunk. 
They haul Ringo up the street, out of earshot.  Ringo is boiling: 
RINGO I want them spitting blood! 
CURLY BILL Easy, Johnny.  Now ain't the time. (turns to others) I tell you, boys, even I'm Worried what'll happen once Ringo Runs this outfit!  God have mercy! 
He pulls Ringo into a doorway, away from the others.  Tears in his eyes, clawing the air, Ringo is beside himself. 
RINGO There's no God, there's no devil, I hate the God damn world!  I want To die! 
CURLY BILL Easy, son.  You just need to get Your feet back under you, that's All.  Come on, boy, let's kick South.  Down to the old playground. 
INT - ADOBE HOUSE - NIGHT 
An adobe rancho in the Sonora desert, small, humbly furnished. Inside a Mexican family, 3 children, a husband and young wife eat dinner.  Suddenly Curly Bill and Ringo BURST IN, guns drawn, shouting in Spanish.  Everyone freezes and as the children start crying we feel the family's sense of inner terror.  Curly Bill looks the trembling young wife over, nodding at Ringo: 
CURLY BILL See son, there is a God after all! 
EXT - ALLEN STREET/ORIENTAL - DUSK 
Nightfall and the wind HOWLS down the street, kicking up dust in swirling columns.  A FLASH of lightning streaks down from the purple clouds and a THUNDERCLAP crashes in our ears, echoing through town into the hills, making the horses neigh and fidget... 
INT- ORIENTAL - DUSK 
But inside it's bright and warm.  Florentino is alone at the bar, nursing a drink while Wyatt deals for Morgan and a few others.  Virgil looks out at the storm, shaking his head: 
VIRGIL Gonna be one of those nights. 
EXT- RUSTLER'S PARK - DUSK 
The Cowboys are gathered on a rise.  Curly Bill stands before them, silhouetted against the boiling sky, arms outstretched, exulting in the storm's fury.   He turns to his men, eyes ablaze: 
CURLY BILL All right, boys.  Now's the time To get woolly. 
INT - JOSEPHINE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Josephine sits by the window, reading Swinburne.  A KNOCK at the door.  She answers it.  Behan enters.  She bristles, but: 
BEHAN Easy.  I just wanted to tell you Things're about to start changing Around here.  Lots of so-called Hard cases and tough-nuts swagger Around this town but none of 'em's got a clue about the real play.  None of 'em. 
JOSEPHINE I don't understand. 
BEHAN You will after tonight.  Bet on it. 
INT - PARLOR, VIRGIL'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Allie and Louisa sip tea by a blazing fire in the hearth, warming themselves against the storm's cold.  Mattie sits nearby, sewing. 
ALLIE God, it's a cold night.  Come up To the fire, Mattie. 
Suddenly there's a KNOCK at the door.  Louisa looks out the window.  Outside is the tall silhouette of a WOMAN in a dark cloak. 
LOUISA It looks like a woman. 
Allie opens the door.  Josephine enter, breathless, comes into the parlor.  Mattie sits up in shock.  The others gather round. 
JOSEPHINE Please, I know it's awful me Coming here, but listen, I can't Say why, but I think something is- 
Another KNOCK.  Allie goes to the window.  There's a weird sense of déjà vu as outside we again see a cloaked woman's SILHOUETTE. 
ALLIE Now who in... It's another woman. 
Allie starts to open the door but Josephine suddenly leaps up and: 
JOSEPHINE No!  Look out! 
With her dancer's quickness she dashes across the parlor, grabbing Allie and pulling her to the floor just as a tremendous SHOTGUN BLAST rips through the open doorway.  The chandelier overhead explodes, showering the screaming women with broken glass and a harsh MALE VOICE cuts through the air as the shrouded figure dashes into the darkness: 
MAN'S VOICE Everybody dies! 
INT- ORIENTAL - NIGHT 
The sound of the gunshots are lost in the wind and thunder as Virgil gets up, yawning: 
VIRGIL Getting late.  Guess I'll turn in. 
WYATT Bundle up, Virge.  Cold out there. 
Virgil nods, exiting with a wave.  Wyatt and Morgan keep playing, hardly noticing as moments later, Florentino walks out.... 
Morgan pulls back his vest, revealing Virgil's badge.  Wyatt drops into a corner chair, defeated.  Morgan makes a shot, leaving only the 8 ball.  A few beats.  Seeing Wyatt's misery, Morgan softens, poking him with the cue.  Wyatt looks up. Morgan taps the middle pocket.  Wyatt shakes his head. 
MORGAN How much you wanna bet? 
Wyatt holds up his watch.  Morgan frowns.  Wyatt raises his brows: 
WYATT I just got it fixed. 
MORGAN You're on. 
Morgan has to lean over the table but he sinks the 8 ball, looking over at Wyatt in triumph.  Wyatt applauds, rolling his eyes just as a BULLET SPANGS into the wall by his head.  Wyatt dives for the floor as ANOTHER SHOT pierces the window.  Wyatt jumps up, bounding to the door to see several FIGURES cash into the darkness.  Wyatt turns back and freezed.  Morgan lies across the table with one leg dangling over the edge, jerking and shuddering involuntarily.  Wyatt rushes to him.  The dog whines as Doc rushes in with Kate and McMasters.  Wyatt is trembling. 
WYATT No, no!  Get the doctor!  Jesus Christ! 
INTO - ORIENTAL - NIGHT 
The curious crowd outside, watching through the windows. Morgan is on the pool table, lying on his side with his shirt pulled up.  The dog cowers in the corner, whining while Dr. Goodfellow digs into the wound with a steel probe, making Morgan writhe in perfect agony.  The doctor turns to Wyatt: 
DR. GOODFELLOW Hold him. 
Wyatt takes Morgan in his arms.  The doctor probes.  Morgan jerks violently.  Suddenly we hear a blood-curdling SCREAM. Louisa is in the doorway, tearing her hair, lost in utter hysterics. 
WYATT Oh, no, get her out of her!  Jesus! 
And now the whole scene sinks into hellish confusion with the dog whimpering, Louisa shrieking as others restrain her, and Morgan gives a violet jerk, breaking Wyatt's grip.  The doctor snarls, about at the end of his rope. 
DR. GOODFELLOW I said hold him, God damn it! 
WYATT Somebody shut that dog up! 
Morgan takes Wyatt's arm, his voice like a child's. 
MORGAN You were right, Wyatt.  They got Me good.  Don't let 'em get you Too. 
WYATT Will somebody get the damn dog out- 
MORGAN Remember about the light you're Supposed to see when you're dyin'? 
WYATT Easy Morg, don't think about that now. 
MORGAN Isn't true.  I can't see a damn thing. 
Tears well up in Wyatt's eyes.  He touches his brother's face. Morgan's eyelids start fluttering.  Wyatt squeezes his hand. 
WYATT Morgan?  Morgan! 
The dog starts howling, long and loud and pitiful-and in the next moment the air is FILLED with howls as every dog and coyote for miles joins in the mourning.  Wyatt backs away from his dead brother and trudges out onto the sidewalk, staring at the blood on his hands.  Standing in the crowd across the street, Josephine sees Wyatt and starts for him.  Behan grabs her.  She wrenches free and with the whole town watching, starts running toward Wyatt.  Seeing her, Wyatt backs away in horror, shaking his head: 
WYATT No, no, get away, get away from me... 
JOSEPHINE Wyatt... 
She keeps coming.  Wyatt panics.  Finally, in desperation: 
WYATT Whore!  Filthy whore!  Get away From me! 
She pauses, unable to believe her ears, then runs away crying. Fuming with rage, Kate starts after Wyatt.  Doc pulls her back: 
DOC Can't you see why he did it? 
The howls continue as Wyatt trudges down the street alone. Suddenly he doubles over, clutching his abdomen in agony, staring at his bloody hands.... 
EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY 
The wagon bearing Morgan's pine coffin waits in the street, hitched and ready.  Virgil is up front with the women, arm in a sling, pale.  Doc and Kate wait on horses nearby.  Finished loading, Wyatt looks around.  People line the street, watching in silence.  Clum and his wounded wife turn away from the window of their lodgings next door, unable to meet his gaze. The very air feels charged with paranoia and recrimination, as if the whole town has suddenly become morally radio-active. Bystanders gape as Josephine steps out of the hotel, regal and impervious as a queen, wearing a gawking scorn like a mink coat, her little white dog scampering after her.  Passing Behan, he gives her nasty look and spits.  She doesn't even break stride.  Lounging in front of the Crystal Palace with the other Cowboys, Stillwell gives Curly Bill an enquiring look. 
CURLY BILL Naw, she's nobody.  Wyatt junked her. 
Passing Wyatt, she doesn't even glance at him.  Doc sighs: 
DOC And so she walked out of our Lives forever. 
Without a word Wyatt climbs onto the wagon and shakes the reins, driving off.  He pulls up in front of the Cowboys. They make a show of pretending to hide their guns.  Wyatt looks straight ahead: 
WYATT I want you to know it's over. We're leaving and we're not Coming back. 
CURLY BILL Well... 'bye. 
RINGO (sniffs) Hey, you smell that?  Smells like Something died. 
CURLY BILL (stifling a laugh) Oh, Jesus, Johnny... 
Allie's eyes flare, Louisa stifles a sob.  The Cowboys snicker. Wyatt clenches his teeth, still staring straight ahead, and drives on.  A few beats then Curly Bill turns to Ike: 
LUCINDA Your colors. 
Wyatt nods his surprised thanks as the wagonmaster steps up: 
WAGONMASTER Good luck, boys.  And give 'em hell! 
They shake hands then Wyatt motions to his men.  They take off at a graceful lope, riding through camp toward the deadfall and the desert beyond.  Unable to contain himself any longer, Lucinda's son bounds up onto a wagon, waving and shouting, spurring them on with a spontaneous frontier toast: 
LUCINDA'S SON Wyatt Earp, the two-gun man, Whistling death and bloody Murder!  Wyatt the widow-maker, Avenging and bright, purple Poison on horseback with Lightning in his eye and thunder In his heart!  Wyatt and his he- Devils, holy terrors and true, Five black centaurs blowin' fire And quicksilver!  Ride out and Charge and shoot and strike and Cleave and hack and thrust home! Don't let up and give no rest and Never call retreat till the last One's smashed and smote and Runnin' for cover.  Best 'em all And break 'em up and bang their Heads together in a bunch and Give no quarter though they be Ten times ten thousand! 
Wyatt turns in the saddle, sweeping off his hat with a cavalier's flourish as he and his men take the deadfall in a single bound and pass into the desert.  An immigrant FATHER grabs his infant son, lifting him up. 
ILLINOIS MOTHER What're you doing? 
ILLINOIS FATHER Someday he'll be able to say he Was there when Wyatt Earp rode Out to bring the law. 
Music up, avenging and bright, as Wyatt and his men ride through the desert, 5 abreast on their giant chargers, glossy black coats shimmering in the sunlight, hoofbeats pounding in unison. 
WYATT All right, let's wring 'em out! 
They break into a dead run, streaking across the frame.  As they crest a rise the ground seems to drop from under them and for a single perfect moment it appears as if they're airborne, flying across the skyline like the winged horsemen of myth. Johnson turns to Vermillion, laughing at the sheer joy of being alive: 
JOHNSON Like flyin', son.  Just like flyin'. 
EXT - RUSTLERS PARK - LATE DAY 
The sun just starts to dip behind the near end of the ridge overlooking the camp where on one side Florentino and several Cowboys sit in a circle, playing poker while others recline on bedrolls, laughing and drinking.  On the other side, at the foot of the ridge, Spence, Pony Deal, and 2 others crouch over a fire, cooking.  Suddenly the cattle nestled under the far end of the ridge start bleating.  Spence turns to Pony Deal who shrugs: 
PONY DEAL Maybe they smell a wolf. 
SPENCE (turns to other Cowboy) Go up there and take a look. 
The Cowboy mount a pinto pony and lopes up and over the far side of the ridge.  Spence and the others continue cooking. Moments later a CRASHING SOUND comes echoing over the ridge like thunder.  The Cowboys look up, startled.  Pony Deal points: 
PONY DEAL Look! 
The pinto gallops riderless back over the ridge.  The Cowboys exchange confused glances, all attention focused on the far end of the ridge.  Then the five black horsemen ride out of the sun, gliding like apparitions up and over the near end of the ridge and bearing down on the unsuspecting camp with the speed of a flame.  They are within a few yards of the fire when Johnny Barnes suddenly spots them and: 
BARNES Look out! 
Spence and the others turn and just have time to gasp before Wyatt and his horsemen SLAM into them with terrifying impact, the bodies disappearing under their horses' hooves.  The Cowboys recoil in total shock, jumping up from bedrolls, stumbling in confusion, scrambling to get out of the way as the possemen plow through the fire and roar into camp, pistols BLAZING in air, horses rearing and snorting. 
WYATT United States Marshals!  Reach! 
Everyone freezes.  A worried-looking Florentino shrinks back behind the others, trying not to be spotted.  Meanwhile Doc leans down and pokes his pistol into a nearby Cowboy's forehead. 
DOC Say something witty. 
They herd the Cowboys over to one side of camp, shouting, "Get over there!",  "Move it!", etc.  But Barnes brazens up to Wyatt: 
BARNES Hey, you can't come- 
A loud crack as Wyatt's quirt lays his face open to the bone. 
WYATT One more word and I'll blind you. Get over there! 
PONY DEAL (to McMasters) Hey brother, what're you doin'- 
MCMASTERS I ain't your brother, I ain't None of your damn brothers.  Move! 
WYATT All right, run 'em off. 
Doc and Wyatt cover the Cowboys while the others scatter their herd with pistol shots.  Indignant, Swilling sneers at Wyatt: 
SWILLING Bastard!  Stinkin' bastard!  Like To eat you blood raw! 
A queer look in his eye, Wyatt dismounts and faces Swilling. 
WYATT All right, breed.  Dig in. 
And then Wyatt DRILLS him in the jaw with a straight right hand.  Swilling drops like a stone.  Wyatt hauls him up by the hair and hammers him left-right-left, steps around, digs down, and pile-drives a left hook to his gut.  Swilling topples back into a seated position then rolls over with a moan and passes out.  Meanwhile, seeing his chance, Florentino ducks down and makes for the remuda as Doc looks down at Swilling. 
DOC It appears he missed an excellent Chance to keep his mouth shut. 
WYATT (faces Cowboys) Felt his liver go on that last One.  Get him to a doctor or he'll Be dead in a couple hours. 
At the remuda Florentino leaps on a horse and gallops off bareback.  McMasters point, pulling his rifle from its scabbard: 
MCMASTERS Florentino!  He's getting away! 
WYATT Drop his horse. 
McMasters draws a bead on the retreating form with his '76 Winchester and FIRES.  100 yards away, the bullet hits Florentino's horse in the shoulder with a "thunk".  It drops, tumbling end over end and plunging Florentino face-first into the ground.  He jumps up, spitting out a mouthful, and starts running.  Wyatt leaps on this black and it streaks forward, closing the distance in seconds.  Florentino gasps and runs faster, pulling a bellygun from his sash, Wyatt almost on top of him.  He turns and FIRES on the run.  A branch next to Wyatt's head EXPLODES.  Wyatt keeps coming, drawing his Buntline, impervious, unstoppable.  Florentino turns for another shot just as the black PILES into him, sending him flying and tumbling him down an embankment.  He scrambles to his feet as Wyatt dismounts, starting toward him with deliberate step, eyes blazing, long-barreled pistol held in front of him.  Florentino backs up in terror, gun at his side, shaking his head: 
CURLY BILL Easy now, it's only five men. Been havin' it their way 'cause They been surprising you.  Hittin' The waterholes and that Judas McMasters is showin' 'em right Where they are.  Pretty damn cute. But nobody's cute as me. (points to dirt map) Next up's Black Draw.  But that Smart Wyatt'll say no, that's Where they'll expect us to hit, We'll hit the one after.  Iron Springs.  That's where they show Next.  Only I'm gonna be there First.  And throw a little party. 
Curly Bill grins, his coarse face radiant in the firelight... 
EXT - WYATT'S CAMP - NIGHT 
Doc sits by the fire, shaking and shivering and sweating. Vermillion comes up and tries to cover him with a blanket, but: 
DOC Don't touch me! 
VERMILLION Sorry... 
He pulls back.  Doc wraps himself in the blanket.  After a beat: 
VERMILLION You really look awful. 
DOC Not half as bad as I feel. 
VERMILLION Then why in hell're you doin' This?  You ought to be in bed. 
DOC Wyatt Earp is my friend. 
VERMILLION Hell, I got lot's of friends. 
DOC (turns, glares at him) I don't. 
Meanwhile at the other side of the camp, Wyatt and McMasters huddle over the map, Johnson walks up: 
JOHNSON Maybe you ought to have a talk With Doc, Wyatt.  I don't know if He's gonna make it. 
WYATT There's no reasoning with him. 
MCMASTERS (points to map) Next waterhole's Black Draw.  We Could be there by mid-morning. 
WYATT They're wise by now.  Which is Next, Iron Springs?  Yeah, let's Try there, Iron Springs. 
EXT - IRON SPRINGS - DAWN 
A camp near a waterhole with 2 Cowboys crouched by a fire, sipping coffee.  Wyatt's men ride up to the rocks overlooking it and dismount, unseen. 
MCMASTERS There they are.  No herd though. 
WYATT We'll go around that way, come up on foot. 
They pull shotguns from their saddles and start down over the rocks on foot, creeping up on the camp, seemingly undetected. But suddenly the Cowboys by the fire dive behind a log and: 
MCMASTERS Ambush!  Get down! 
And suddenly the deadfall on the opposite side EXPLODES IN GUNFIRE.  Vermillion takes a graze and drops with the others, hugging the rocks.  A bullet RICHOCHETS into a rock at Johnson's head, biting his face with fragments, making him wince: 
JOHNSON Christ! 
Hunched behind the logs on the opposite side with 15 more Cowboys, Curly Bill raises his head, grinning and shouting: 
CURLY BILL Hey, Wyatt!  How the hell are you? 
Wyatt and his men react to his voice.  The fire continues. Suddenly there's MOVEMENT in the rocks above them.  Doc points: 
DOC Look! 
CURLY BILL Got some boys workin' around Those rocks behind you.  Another Minute or two, gonna have you in A crossfire!  How do you like that? 
Seeing the spot they're in, McMasters turns to the silent Wyatt: 
MCMASTERS He's right.  They get set up in Them rocks it's the end for us. 
And now for the first time we see fear in these men, actual naked fear.  But Curly Bill laughs, having the time of his life. 
CURLY BILL 'Course you could give yourselves up and we could have a party! Then what larks! 
Crouched by Curly Bill, Barnes chuckles.  A confident ripple of laughter goes through the Cowboy line-they know they've got them.  On the other side, Vermillion shakes his head grimly. 
VERMILLION Ain't takin' me alive, damn it! 
McMasters looks at the still silent Wyatt, shrugging helplessly: 
MCMASTERS Think of somethin' fast or we're cooked. 
They really are at the end of their rope, all looking to Wyatt for a solution.  He remains silent.  Then suddenly, in this supreme moment, a strange, almost supernatural calm seems to come over him and he says simply: 
WYATT No. 
JOHNSON What? 
WYATT Sure... 
JOHNSON One thing.  We come through this Alive, can we keep the badges? 
Wyatt nods, picks up the money and quietly moves off toward the stream by himself.  Moments later, McMasters approaches: 
MCMASTERS Where's Wyatt? 
DOC Down at the creek.  Walking on water. 
EXT - COWBOY CAMP - NIGHT 
Ringo crouches by the fire with the other Cowboys, his face a deeply shadowed mask.  2 Iron Springs survivors stand before him: 
1ST COWBOY We hit him half a dozen times but He just kept comin', walked right Up to Curly Bill with that 10 Gauge and blew him up! 
RINGO Curly Bill?  He killed Curly Bill? 
Ringo starts making strange little inarticulate sounds, inhaling and exhaling like an animal, eyes swimming in panic.... 
2ND COWBOY He didn't just kill him, he Burned him down!  Blew him in Half!  I mean all the way in half, Like a melon!  Then he turned Around with that big Colt and Killed Johnny Barnes, shot up a Couple more 'fore we got out of there.  But it was his face, you should've seen his face. 
RINGO He's just a man. 
1ST COWBOY You didn't see his face 
Ringo looks up at them, suddenly dead calm, his face a blank. 
RINGO You see my face, don't you? 
Out of nowhere, Ringo draws and FIRES 2 shots so quickly they sound like one.  The 2 survivors drop with bullets through their brains.  The others jump, transfixed by the insane brutality of what he's just done.  Ringo draws himself up, in full possession of the situation, the new leader, fearsome, matchless: 
RINGO Everybody get this through their Heads.  Wyatt Earp dies.  I'm Running the show now and I'm Telling you, Earp dies.  His men Too.  They all die.  Understand? We're gonna kill 'em.  For what They did to Curly Bill we're Gonna ride 'em into the ground And slaughter 'em like rabbits. 'Cause this is my time, children. This is where I get woolly. 
EXT - COWBOY CAMP - NIGHT 
Later.  Most of the others are asleep or talking among themselves as Billy Grounds turns to Zwing Hunt, whispering: 
GROUNDS What d'you think?  I didn't think Curly Bill could be killed.  I'm Tellin' you, this whole thing's Gone sour.  We got hands droppin' Like flies and Ringo's flat out Of his mind.  I mean, hell Brother, you feel like ridin' Against Wyatt Earp? 
HUNT Hell no, brother. 
GROUNDS Then brother let's you and me cut out. 
HUNT Right with you, brother. 
They steal away toward the horses as.... 
INT - ALLEN STREET - DAY 
Ringo faces Behan, grim, intent, while Behan sputters, holding up a San Francisco newspaper: 
BEHAN Are you crazy?  It's front page News all over the country.  It's Getting out of hand, Ringo.  If Things don't settle down soon- 
RINGO You heard me, Behan. 
BEHAN Ringo, you don't understand- 
Ringo glares at Behan, his eyes burning, implacable: 
RINGO No, you don't understand. 
EXT - COWBOY CAMP - DAY 
Ringo rides up with Behan and dismounts.  A 3rd Cowboy steps up: 
3RD COWBOY Billy Grounds and Zwing Hunt ran Out.  Four, five others, too. 
RINGO Who cares?  Separate the wheat From the chaff. 
Behan looks worried as Ike and the other Cowboys gather around.  Just then Breakenridge rides up. 
BEHAN What're you doing here, Billy? 
BREAKENRIDGE Curly Bill was my friend.  I'd Like to come with you. 
RINGO Sure, why not? 
Ringo slaps the little deputy on the back and turns to his men.  His unaccustomed good humor is very troubling. 
RINGO I told you it was time to get Woolly.  Now gather 'round, Children, gather 'round.  And Raise your right hands. 
EXT - DESERT - DAY 
DOC What does he want?  He wants revenge. 
WYATT Revenge?  For what? 
Doc looks at him, a look of purest sadness in his sunken eyes. 
DOC Being born. 
Wyatt looks down again and it's a long time before he speaks: 
WYATT Remember how I said it all Happened so fast with Curly Bill I didn't have time to think about it? Well I've had plenty of time To think about this.  I spent most Of my life since I was born not Knowing what I want out of life, Just chasin' my tail.  But now, For the first time I know exactly What I want.  And who.  And that's The damnable misery of it. (pauses, looks at Doc) I can't beat him, can I? 
Doc shakes his head.  Wyatt nods then stands, ready to exit, but: 
DOC No, wait, I'll go with you... 
Doc struggles to sit up, sweating and trembling, finally falling back down, almost passing out.  Wyatt puts a hand on his forehead. 
DOC I'm sorry.  I'm sorry, Wyatt.  God, I'm so sorry. 
WYATT That's all right, Doc.  Don't worry. 
DOC Never got to wear one of those. 
Doc points to Wyatt's badge.  He takes it off, pressing it into Doc's hand.  Doc smiles then does pass out.  Wyatt exits.... 
EXT - FRONT PORCH, HOOKER RANCH - LATE DAY 
It's late, almost sunset.  Wyatt steps onto the porch where Hooker and the others wait.  He glances back into the house, looking at the unconscious Doc through the open bedroom door. 
HOOKER Don't worry.  They want him They'll have to go over us first. 
Wyatt nods gratefully, offering his hand.  Hooker takes it, abashed.  Wyatt mounts up with Johnson and Vermillion.  They ride off at a slow gallop, 3 figures against the twilight sky.... 
EXT - HOOKER HILL/COWBOY CAMP #3 - LATE DAY 
Ringo waits atop the hill with Ike and the 3rd Cowboy watching as Wyatt's group rides out: 
RINGO Only three.  They left somebody Behind.  Let's go take a look. 
EXT - HOOKER RANCH - LATE DAY 
Ringo and the others ride up.  Hooker steps up with several hands. 
HOOKER What're you doin' here? 
RINGO Who's in there? 
HOOKER It's Holliday.  He's sick.  Imagine He's dyin'. 
Ringo squints through the front door of the house to the open bedroom where Doc lies unconscious, chest heaving, sweating. 
RINGO Drag him out here, let's have a look. 
HOOKER I looked the other way when you Did a lot of foul things but I Ain't lettin' you torment a dyin' Man.  Not as long as he's under my Roof.  I draw the line there. 
Hooker and his men look resolute.  Ringo smiles, nodding: 
RINGO All right, Hooker.  I'll be back In about an hour.  We'll see how Brave you are then. 
HOOKER I'll be here. 
Ringo and his men ride off.  At the crossroads they stop, Ike peeling off. 
RINGO Soon as I'm through with Wyatt, Swarm down with the whole bunch And finish off Creek Johnson and Texas Jack. 
And they gallop off in opposite directions as.... 
EXT - SULPHUR SPRINGS CANYON - LATE DAY 
2 Cowboys, Ringo's seconds, ride up to where Wyatt and his men stand dismounted, waiting.  One points to a thicket nearby: 
3RD COWBOY He's waitin' for you by the big Oak, quarter mile up that trail. 
EXT - NORTH ROAD - LATE DAY 
Behan and the other Cowboys wait at the road above the canyon. 30 strong, mounted and ready.  Ike rides up, full of anticipation: 
IKE Get ready.  Soon as Ringo's done We're gonna take care of the others. 
BEHAN Aren't we giving them safe conduct? 
IKE Sure we are.  All the way to hell. 
JOHNSON I'll be dipped in shit.  I will, too. 
EXT - NORTH ROAD - SUNSET 
Alert by the shots, Ike turns to Behan and the others. 
IKE All right, get ready... 
EXT - CANYON MOUTH - SUNSET 
Vermillion and Johnson are mounted, watching while Doc tries to climb up into the saddle with excruciating slowness. Though on his feet, it's clear Doc is as sick as ever, sweating and panting, running on sheer animal courage.  Wyatt stands behind him, his hands poised to help, trying to will him into the saddle, jerking his hands behind him every time Doc looks back.  Finally, with a last grunt, Doc throws a leg over his horse and drops into the saddle.  Wyatt mounts, turns to his men, pointing: 
WYATT All right, what's it to be?  New Mexico's that way. 
JOHNSON Colorado's closer 
WYATT So're the Cowboys.  They're up That road right now, waiting to Jump us. 
VERMILLION We're the law, ain't we?  Well the Law don't ride around vermin- 
JOHNSON It rides right at 'em.  Like McMasters said, see it through to The end. 
Wyatt looks at Doc, who shrugs.  Wyatt swings his horse alongside, suddenly noticing his badge on Doc's chest.  Doc smiles wanly: 
DOC I just wanted to see what it felt Like.  Here... 
He starts unpinning it but Wyatt stops him, pressing his palm onto the badge over Doc's heart.   A last look around each other then Wyatt signals and they start up the north road at the lope, four abreast, the last charge of Wyatt Earp and his immortals.... 
EXT - NORTH ROAD - SUNSET 
From a lookout position above, a COWBOY calls down to the others: 
4TH COWBOY Riders comin'. 
Behan heaves a sigh of relief, glancing around at the others. 
BEHAN Well I guess Ringo did it. 
But suddenly Ringo's seconds gallop up from the flank: 
3RD COWBOY Ringo's dead 
BEHAN What? 
Straining to see in the falling light, the cowboy on the rock shouts excitedly: 
4TH COWBOY That's Wyatt Earp's bunch! 
The word starts to spread, the crowd of horsemen BUZZING. Suddenly, off in the distance, the 4 horsemen come into view, coming straight at them at a lope. 
3RD COWBOY They're comin' right at us! 
Down the road, Wyatt asnd his men pull their shotguns, holding them at the ready as they break into a gallop.  The Cowboy on the rock jumps down, mounting his horse. 
4TH COWBOY Here they come!  Get ready... 
The Cowboys line-up on a rise, blocking the road.  They draw their guns.  Wyatt and his men keep coming, now 200 yards away.  Behan groans, panic sinking sour and heavy, churning his bowels: 
BEHAN Oh, no... 
Now Wyatt's men break into a dead run, hurtling toward them at top speed, their thoroughbreds eating up the distance, now only 100 yards away.  The Cowboys tense up more and more, biting lips, grinding teeth.  The 4th Cowboy turns to the nearby 3rd Cowboy: 
4TH COWBOY What d'you think? 
3RD COWBOY I think it's time to start Workin' for a livin'. 
BEHAN Me too! 
They break and run.  So does another.  Suddenly the whole mass of them EXPLODES in panic with horsemen riding in all directions, scurrying away like cockroaches from a light.  Ike looks around, screaming at them, beside himself as the 4th Cowboy rides by: 
IKE Kill 'em!  Kill 'em!  It's only Four men!  Why don't you kill 'em? 
4TH COWBOY Why don't you? 
The others keep going, leaving him behind.  But seeing Wyatt bearing down on him, Ike finally bolts himself, pounding off hell-for-leather into the hills.  Wyatt and his men keep coming at a full gallop and as they crest the rise, suddenly, as before, the ground seems to fall out from under them and for another burning moment they once again appear airborne, grim-faced avenging angels on winged horses, now even more majestic in the twilight, like a myth made flesh, awesome, superb, and unutterably beautiful.  As they approach, only Breakenridge remains, giving them a tentative wave.  Wyatt points a finger at him as they ride by in a flash, cresting another rise and passing into legend.... 
INT - HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 
The CLOCK on the wall of this private DENVER hospital room ticks gently but inexorably as Doc lies in bed with FATHER FEENEY, a Catholic priest, sitting at his side.  Painfully emaciated, his breathing shallow and labored, Doc is so weak it's all he can do to even move his eyes.  But he brightens as Wyatt enters: 
DOC Well hell, Wyatt.  Wyatt, I want You to meet Father Feeney.  Father Feeney's just been initiating me Into the mysteries of the great And ancient Church of Rome.  You See, it appears my hypocrisy Knows no bounds. 
WYATT How you feelin', Doc? 
