TRUE GRIT 
Adaptation by 
Joel and Ethan Coen 
Based on the Novel by Charles Portis 
June 12, 2009 
White letters on a black screen: 
The wicked flee when none pursueth. 
The quotation fades. 
A woman's voice: 
Voice-Over People do not give it credence that a young girl could leave home and go off in the wintertime to avenge her father's blood, but it did happen. 
The street of a western town, night. The street is deserted. Snow falls. 
We track slowly forward. 
I was just fourteen years of age when a coward by the name of Tom Chaney shot my father down in Fort Smith, Arkansas, and robbed him of his life and his horse and two California gold pieces that he carried in his trouser band. 
A shape lies in the street below the busted-out porch railing of a two-story building. A sign identifies the building as the Monarch Boarding House. 
Papa was a Cumberland Presbyterian and a Mason. He'd hired Chaney--for paid wages, not on shares--when Chaney was "down on his luck." If Papa had a failing it was his kindly disposition; I did not get my mean streak from him. 
The crumpled shape is a body. We hear the thunder of approaching hooves. 
He had taken Chaney up to Fort Smith to help lead back a string of mustang ponies he'd just bought from a stock trader named Stonehill. In town, Chaney had fallen to drink and cards, and lost all his money. He got it into his head he'd been cheated and went back to the boarding house for his Henry rifle. Papa remonstrated, and Chaney shot him in the breast. 
A galloping horse enters frame and recedes, whipped on by a bareback rider. A long- barreled rifle is tied across the rider's back with a sash cord. 
He disappears into the falling snow. 
Chaney fled. He could have taken the time to saddle the horse--or hitched up three spans of mules to a Concord stagecoach and smoked a pipe, as it seems that no one in that city was inclined to give chase. Chaney had mistaken its citizens for men. 
DAY 
We are looking into the window of a moving train. 
Looking out past us is a fourteen-year-old girl, Mattie Ross. Next to her is Yarnell, a middle-aged black man. Reading backward in the mirror of the window we see a station sign easing in as the train slows: FORT SMITH. 
The voice-over continues: 
Voice-Over You might say, what business was it of my father's to meddle? My answer is this: he was trying to do that short devil a good turn. He was his brother's keeper. Does that answer your question? 
DEAD MAN'S FACE 
Candlelight flickers over the man's waxy features. 
Voice (Irish-accented) Is that the man? 
The body, wrapped in a shroud, lies in a pine coffin. Mattie and Yarnell stand looking down at it. An undertaker, grizzled and severely dressed, holds the candle. 
Yarnell Lord lord. 
Mattie That is my father. Undertaker If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight. 
Yarnell He has gone home. Praise the lord. 
Mattie Put the lid on. Why is it so much? 
Undertaker The quality of the casket and of the embalming. The loifloik appearance requires time and art. And the chemicals come dear. The particulars are in your bill. If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight. 
Mattie No. Thank you. The spirit has flown. Your wire said fifty dollars. 
Undertaker You did not specify he was to be shipped. 
Mattie Well sixty dollars is every cent we have. It leaves nothing for our board. Yarnell, you can see to the body's transport to the train station and accompany it home, and I will have to sleep here tonight. 
Yarnell I don't think your mama'd want you to stay in this town by yourself. 
Mattie It can't be helped. I still have to collect father's things and see to some other business. 
Yarnell But I's your chap-a-rone! Your mama didn't say for you to see to no business here! 
Mattie Could I hire a marshal to pursue Tom Chaney? 
The sheriff looks at the girl and chuckles. 
Sheriff You have a lot of experience with bounty hunters? 
Mattie My answer is this: That is a silly question. I am here to settle my father's affairs. 
Sheriff All alone? 
Mattie I am the person for it. Mama was never any good at sums and she can hardly spell cat. I intend to see papa's killer hanged. 
Sheriff I see. Well. Nothing prevents you from offering a reward, or from so informing a marshal. It would have to be real money, though, to be persuasive. Chaney is across the river in the Choctaw Nation--lawless country. It will not be a daisy-picking expedition. Upwards of three-score US marshals have been slaughtered in the Territory. 
Mattie I will see to the money. Who's the best marshal? 
Sheriff I would have to weigh that proposition. I reckon William Waters is the best tracker. He is half Comanche and it is something to see him cut for sign. The meanest one is Rooster Cogburn. He is a pitiless man, double tough and fear don't enter into his thinking. He loves to pull a cork. The best is probably L.T. Quinn, he brings his prisoners in alive. He may let one get by now and again but he believes even the worst of men is entitled to a fair shake. Quinn is a good peace officer and a lay preacher to boot. He will not plant evidence or abuse a prisoner. He is as straight as string. Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have. 
Mattie Where can I find this Rooster? 
MATTIE'S HAND 
Rapping at a door of rough plank. 
After a beat, a voice--rasping and slurred: 
Voice The jakes is occupied. 
Wider. We see that Mattie stands before an outhouse. 
Mattie I know it is occupied Mr. Cogburn. As I said, I have business with you. 
Beat. 
Voice I have prior business. 
Mattie You have been at it for quite some time, Mr. Cogburn. 
Voice (roaring drunk) There is no clock on my business! To hell with you! To hell with you! How did you stalk me here?! 
Mattie The sheriff told me to look in the saloon. In the saloon they referred me here. We must talk. 
Voice (outraged) Women ain't allowed in the saloon! 
Mattie I was not there as a customer. I am fourteen years old. 
No response. Mattie reaches up and raps again, vigorously. 
Beat. 
Voice (sullen) The jakes is occupied. And will be for some time. 
PLANK FLOOR 
A coffin is dropped heavily into frame and we see, chalked onto the freshly milled wood of its top: 
Ross Yell County Hold at station 
After a resting beat, during which the coffin's handlers presumably adjust their grip, the coffin is shoved away over the straw-littered planking of a rail freight car. Once it has been pushed fully in, the upright planking of the boxcar door blurs through frame in the extreme foreground til the door slams to rest. 
We hear the steam engine start to chug, and the foreground door moves slowly off with the grinding motion of the train. 
SHOP DOOR 
Swinging open. It is the barnlike door to the mortician's workroom; the Irish undertaker holds it open for Mattie. She carries a bedroll. 
Undertaker You can sleep in a coffin if you loik. 
Three bodies lay under shrouds on a high work table. The arm of the nearest sticks out, rope burns on its wrist. Three coffins are in various stages of assembly. 
Mattie unwinds the bedroll onto the floor. 
Mattie Not. . . yet. 
STREET Mattie strides along, looking at facades. She stops, looking at the signage on a barnlike building: 
Col. G. Stonehill. Licensed Auctioneer. Cotton Factor. 
INSIDE 
Stonehill A what? All right, now listen very carefully as I will not bargain further. I will take the ponies back and keep the gray horse which is mine and settle for three hundred dollars. Now you must take that or leave it and I do not much care which it is. 
Mattie Lawyer Daggett would not wish me to consider anything under three hundred twenty-five dollars. But I will settle for three hundred and twenty if I am given the twenty in advance. And here is what I have to say about the saddle-- 
STREET 
We are tracking down the street we toward the Monarch Boarding House. 
Mattie is humping a saddle up the street. She stops before the boarding house. She looks at its sign. She looks at its busted-out porch railing. 
INSIDE THE PARLOR 
A Marjorie Main-like woman crushes Mattie to her bosom. 
Mrs. Floyd Frank Ross's daughter. My poor child. My poor child. 
Mattie grimaces, arms pinned to her sides. 
Mattie You have my father's traps? 
Mrs. Floyd Oh yes we do. My poor child. Are you gawna be stayin with us or are you hurrying home to your mother? 
Mattie I am staying briefly. I have business with Marshal Rooster Cogburn. I found him in his cups today but I understand he's to be in court tomorrow, testifying. I mean to engage him to hunt down Tom Chaney. Mrs. Floyd Well god bless him for that. The tariff here is seventy-five cents for room and supper. That does not include your daytime eats. 
Mattie Very well. 
Mrs. Floyd Your father owed for two days, god bless him. 
Mattie Oh. Well. 
Mrs. Floyd You'll share a room with Grandma Turner. We've had to double up, what with all the people in town come to see the hanging Judge Parker's put on for us. 
Mattie Yes, I witnessed the hanging myself. 
Mrs. Floyd Was it a good'n? 
BEDROOM 
A blanket is unrolled to reveal a watch, a cheap knife, and a long-barreled Colt's dragoon revolver. Voice off: 
Mrs. Floyd This was in the poor man's room. This is everything, there are no light fingers in this house. If you need something for to tote the gun around I will give you an empty flour sack for a nickel. 
DARK ROOM 
We hear wind whistling through cracks in the floorboards and walls. 
We hear snoring. 
There is one bed, not large, with two shapes in it. 
We cut in closer to find Mattie lying on her back, staring. She shivers, shoulders hunched. The thin blanket barely covers her. 
She pulls the blanket gently, slowly, so that it covers her exposed side. 
A beat of snoring, a snorfle, and then, as we hold on Mattie, the crackle of mattress ticking under a shifting body--and the blanket is pulled away toward the unseen snorer. 
COURT HALLWAY 
Voices echo from inside the courtroom. Mattie cracks a heavy oak door and slips in. 
COURTROOM 
The gallery is crowded. Mattie is at the back of a press of standees. 
Her point-of-view, semi-obstructed: on the witness stand is Rooster Cogburn, a rough- hewn man going to middle-aged fat. He has a patch over one eye. 
Cogburn The woman was out in the yard dead with blowflies on her face and the old man was inside with his breast blowed open by a scatter-gun and his feet burned. He was still alive but just was. He said them two Wharton boys had done it, rode up drunk-- 
Mr. Goudy Objection. Hearsay. 
Mr. Barlow Dying declaration, your honor. 
Judge Overruled. Procede, Mr. Cogburn. 
Cogburn Them two Wharton boys--that'd be Odus and C.C.-- throwed down on him, asked him where his money was, when he wouldn't talk lit pine knots and held 'em to his feet. He told 'em in a fruit jar under a gray rock at one corner of the smokehouse. Mr. Barlow And then? 
Cogburn Well he died on us. Passed away in considerable pain. 
Mr. Barlow What did you do then? 
Mr. Goudy How many members of this one family, the Wharton family, have you killed? 
Cogburn Immediate, or-- 
Mr. Barlow Your honor, perhaps counsel should be advised that the marshal is not the defendant in this action. Mr. Barlow The history is relevant your honor. Goes to Cogburn's methods and animosities. 
Judge Okay. 
Mr. Barlow Did you also shoot Dub Wharton, brother, and Clete Wharton, half-brother? 
Cogburn Clete was selling ardent spirits to the Cherokee. He come at me with a king bolt. 
Mr. Goudy You were armed and he advanced upon you with nothing but a king bolt? From a wagon tongue? 
Cogburn I've seen men badly tore up with things no bigger than a king bolt. I defended myself. 
Mr. Goudy And, returning to the encounter with Aaron and his two remaining sons, you sprang from cover with your revolver in hand? 
Cogburn I did. 
Mr. Goudy Loaded and cocked? 
Cogburn If it ain't loaded and cocked it don't shoot. 
Mr. Goudy And like his son, Aaron Wharton advanced against an armed man? 
Cogburn He was armed. He had that axe raised. Mr. Goudy Yes. I believe you testified that you backed away from Aaron Wharton? 
Cogburn That is right. 
Mr. Goudy Which direction were you going? 
Cogburn I always go backwards when I'm backing up. 
Mr. Goudy Very amusing I suppose--for all of us except Aaron Wharton. Now, he advanced upon you much in the manner of Clete Wharton menacing you with that king bolt or rolled- up newspaper or whatever it was. 
Cogburn Yes sir. He commenced to cussing and laying about with threats. 
Mr. Goudy And you were backing away? How many steps before the shooting started? 
Cogburn Seven, eight steps? 
Mr. Goudy Aaron Wharton keeping pace, advancing, away from the fire seven eight steps--what would that be, fifteen, twenty feet? 
Cogburn I suppose. 
Mr. Goudy Will you explain to the jury, Mr. Cogburn, why Mr. Wharton was found immediately by the wash pot with one arm in the fire, his sleeve and hand smoldering? 
Cogburn Well. Mr. Goudy Did you move the body after you shot him? 
Cogburn Why would I do that? 
Mr. Goudy You did not drag his body over to the fire? Fling his arm in? 
Cogburn No sir. 
Mr. Goudy Two witnesses who arrived on the scene will testify to the location of the body. You do not remember moving the body? So it was a bushwack, as he tended his campfire? 
Mr. Barlow Objection. 
Cogburn I, if that was where the body was I might have moved him. I do not remember. 
Mr. Goudy Why would you move the body, Mr. Cogburn? 
Cogburn Them hogs rooting around might have moved him. I do not remember. 
COURTHOUSE PORCH 
Mattie waits as people file out. She pushes forward to meet Cogburn when he emerges, muttering. 
Cogburn Son of a goddamn bitch. 
Mattie Rooster Cogburn? 
Cogburn What is it. 
He does not look up from the cigarette he is trying to roll. His hands are shaking. 
Mattie I would like to talk with you a minute. 
Mattie squints at him against the daylight: 
The man has a cowlick and barndoor ears and is once again well-accoutered for riding. He steps away from the window and reseats himself. 
Cowboy You do not look well. My name is LeBoeuf. I have just come from Yell County. 
Mattie We have no rodeo clowns in Yell County. 
LeBoeuf A saucy line will not get you far with me. I saw your mother yesterday morning. She says for you to come right on home. 
Mattie Hm. What was your business there? 
LeBoeuf takes a small photograph from his coat. 
LeBoeuf This is a man I think you know. 
Mattie looks at the picture through red-rimmed eyes. 
. . . You called him Tom Chaney, I believe. . . 
Mattie declines to contradict. LeBoeuf continues: 
. . . though in the months I have been tracking him he has used the names Theron Chelmsford, John Todd Andersen, and others. He dallied in Monroe, Louisiana, and Pine Bluff, Arkansas before turning up at your father's place. 
Mattie Why did you not catch him in Monroe, Louisiana or Pine Bluff, Arkansas? LeBoeuf He is a crafty one. 
Mattie I thought him slow-witted myself. 
LeBoeuf That was his act. 
Mattie It was a good one. Are you some kind of law? 
LeBoeuf tips back in his chair and draws back his coat to display a star. A smug look. 
LeBoeuf That's right. I am a Texas Ranger. 
Mattie That may make you a big noise in that state; in Arkansas you should mind that your Texas trappings and title do not make you an object of fun. Why have you been ineffectually pursuing Chaney? 
LeBoeuf's smile stays in place with effort. 
LeBoeuf He shot and killed a state senator named Bibbs down in Waco, Texas. The Bibbs family have put out a reward. 
Mattie How came Chaney to shoot a state senator? 
LeBoeuf My understanding is there was an argument about a dog. Do you know anything about where Chaney has gone? 
Mattie He is in the Territory, and I hold out little hope for you earning your bounty. 
LeBoeuf Why is that? 
Mattie My man will beat you to it. I have hired a deputy marshal, the toughest one they have, and he is familiar with the Lucky Ned Pepper gang that they say Chaney has tied up with. 
LeBoeuf Well, I will throw in with you and your marshal. 
Mattie No. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine. 
LeBoeuf It'll be to our mutual advantage. Your marshal I presume knows the Territory; I know Chaney. It is at least a two-man job taking him alive. 
Mattie When Chaney is taken he is coming back to Fort Smith to hang. I am not having him go to Texas to hang for shooting some senator. 
LeBoeuf Haw-haw! It is not important where he hangs, is it? 
Mattie It is to me. Is it to you? 
LeBoeuf It means a great deal of money to me. It's been many months' work. 
Mattie I'm sorry that you are paid piecework not on wages, and that you have been eluded the winter long by a halfwit. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine. 
LeBoeuf stands. 
LeBoeuf You give out very little sugar with your pronouncements. While I sat there watching you I gave some thought to stealing a kiss, though you are very young and sick and unattractive to boot, but now I have a mind to give you five or six good licks with my belt. 
Mattie rolls away onto her side. Mattie One would be as unpleasant as the other. If you wet your comb, it might tame that cowlick. 
Her eyelids droop. 
Spurs jingle and fade away. 
Distant voices from the street. Clanging church bell. Very close, the clink of bottle against cup. 
Mattie I was as bad yesterday as you look today. I was forced to share a bed with Grandma Turner. 
The trader's eyes are still on the paper: 
Stonehill I am not acquainted with Grandma Turner. If she is a resident of this city it does not surprise me that she carries disease. I was told this malarial place was to be the Chicago of the Southwest. Well, my little friend, it is not the Chicago of the Southwest. I cannot rightly say what it is, but it has ruined my health as it has my finances. 
He drops the paper. 
. . . I owe you money. 
He works a key in a drawer and takes out money and counts during the following. 
Mattie You have not traded poorly. 
Stonehill Certainly not. I am paying you for a horse I do not possess and have bought back a string of useless ponies I cannot sell again. 
Mattie You are forgetting the gray horse. 
Stonehill Crowbait. 
Mattie You are looking at the thing in the wrong light. 
Stonehill I am looking at it in the light of God's eternal truth. 
He hands the money across and Mattie counts to confirm. 
Mattie Your illness is putting you "down in the dumps." You will soon find a buyer for the ponies. 
Stonehill I have a tentative offer of ten dollars per head from the Pfitzer Soap Works of Little Rock. 
Mattie It would be a shame to destroy such spirited horseflesh. 
Stonehill So it would. I am confident the deal will fall through. 
Mattie Look here. I need a pony. I will pay ten dollars for one of them. Stonehill No. That was lot price. No no. Wait a minute. Are we trading again? I just handed you twenty dollars each for those ponies and you now propose to buy one back for ten? Little girl: I will give you ten dollars to refrain from doing any more business here. It would be the most astute deal I have struck in Arkansas. 
STABLE 
We are tracking along a line of stalls toward a small corral holding a black mustang, among other ponies. 
Mattie is approaching the horse. A black stablehand has been trailing her, humping her father's saddle. 
Mattie This one is beautiful. 
She rubs the muzzle of the black horse. 
She takes the saddle from the stablehand and tries to throw it over the horse. She is not tall or strong enough. 
The stableboy helps, then helps her up. 
The horse does not move for a long beat. 
The stableboy is laughing. 
Stableboy He don't know they's a person up there. You too light. 
She kicks lightly and the horse abruptly pitches once or twice and then starts prancing. 
The stableboy, still laughing, stands in the middle of a circle defined by the prancing horse. 
Stableboy He thinks he got a horsefly on him. 
Mattie leans forward to calm the horse, rubbing the muzzle and shushing him. 
She straightens. Mattie He is very spirited. I will call him "Little Blackie." 
Stableboy Das a good name. 
Mattie What does he like for a treat? 
Stableboy Ma'am, he is a horse, so he likes apples. 
She reins the horse around and heads for the door, calling back: 
Mattie Thank Mr. Stonehill for me. 
The receding stableboy is uncomfortable. 
Stableboy No ma'am. . . I ain't s'posed to utter your name. 
He begins to spank her. 
Mattie Help me, Marshal! 
Rooster sits impassively on his horse. 
LeBoeuf (still spanking) Now you do as the grown-ups say! Or I will get myself a birch switch and stripe your leg! 
Mattie is struggling and in spite of herself starts to weep. LeBoeuf drags her through the dirt to a mesquite bush and snaps off a switch. 
LeBoeuf Now we will see what tune you sing! 
Mattie, wet and filthy, tries vainly to swat back. Rooster still watches without expression as LeBoeuf whips the girl. 
Mattie Are you going to let him do this, Marshal? 
Finally, quietly: 
Rooster No, I don't believe I will. Put your switch away, LeBoeuf. She has got the best of us. 
LeBoeuf looks back, for a moment too surprised to speak. He then regains his resolve: 
LeBoeuf She has not got the best of me! 
He returns to the beating. 
Rooster (evenly) Did you not hear me? That will do, I said. 
LeBoeuf I aim to finish what I started. 
Rooster That will be the biggest mistake you ever made, you Texas brush-popper. 
The sound of a gun being cocked. 
LeBoeuf leaves off the beating to stare at Rooster--whose gun is drawn, cocked, and pointed at him. 
LeBoeuf flings the switch aside and stalks to his horse. He mutters, but loud enough to be heard: 
LeBoeuf Hoorawed by a little girl. 
CAMPFIRE 
Mattie sits looking into the fire, hands clasped around her knees. 
LeBoeuf sits feet to the fire, smoking a pipe that, with his boyish face, makes him look as if he is playing at professor. He gazes into the fire, musing as he pulls at the pipe. 
LeBoeuf I am not accustomed to so large a fire. In Texas, we will make do with a fire of little more than twigs or buffalo chips to heat the night's ration of beans. 
Rooster enters the circle of light with an armload of wood. 
. . . And, it is Ranger policy never to make your camp in the same place as your cookfire. Very imprudent to make your presence known in unsettled country. 
Rooster gazes at LeBoeuf for a beat, then dumps the wood onto the fire. 
He leaves the circle of light. 
LeBoeuf addresses the darkness that Rooster has disappeared into: 
. . . How do you know that Bagby will have intelligence? 
Rooster He has a store. 
He reenters with a length of rope, and a robe which he unrolls onto the ground. 
LeBoeuf A store. That makes him an authority on movements in the Territory? 
Rooster plays out one end of the rope to just touch the ground, then starts playing out the rest as he paces. 
Rooster We have entered a wild place. Anyone coming in, wanting any kind of supply, cannot pick and choose his portal. 
He has finished making a loop around his sleeping robe. Seeing this, LeBoeuf laughs. 
LeBoeuf That is a piece of foolishness. All the snakes are asleep this time of year. 
As he leaves the circle of light: 
Rooster They have been known to wake up. 
Mattie Let me have a rope too. 
She looks up, down again, and then proceeds. Rooster continues as well: 
. . . That was when I went out to the staked plains of Texas and shot buffalo with Vernon Shaftoe and a Flathead Indian called Olly. 
Mattie stretches onto tiptoes, reaches, just gets fingers around a branch. She secures it enough with the one hand to dare to reach with the other. She hauls herself up. 
. . . The Mormons had run Shaftoe out of Great Salt Lake City but don't ask me what it was for. Call it a misunder- standing and let it go at that. There is no use in you asking me questions about it, for I will not answer them. 
Mattie looks out, at waist-height to the corpse, which twists maybe eight feet away over the void. Rooster notes her look: 
. . . Is it our man? 
The face is half-eaten and eyeless. Mattie I believe not. 
She moves to start back down, but Rooster calls: 
Rooster No! Cut him down! 
Mattie Why? 
Rooster I might know him. 
She climbs one more branch to arrive at the hanging branch. She shimmies out onto it and pulls the knife from Rooster's belt now around her waist. 
. . . You see, Olly and me both taken a solemn oath to keep silent. Well sir, the big shaggies is about all gone. It is a damned shame. 
Mattie looks down, over the shoulder of the close-by foreshortened corpse to the far foreshortened Rooster. 
. . . I would give three dollars right now for a pickled buffalo tongue. 
She calls out as she starts sawing: 
Mattie Why did they hang him so high? 
Rooster I don't know. Possibly in the belief it would make him more dead. 
The sawing continues. 
Rooster takes one step back. 
The rope snaps. At once: 
The body drops. 
The branch, unburdened, bucks with Mattie atop it. 
She gasps, hugging at the branch, getting swung halfway around it but then righting herself. 
The body hits the ground with a smack. 
Mattie looks. 
The body is spread out on the ground below, many bones now broken, its posture absurd. 
Rooster steps forward. He toes the upper body to get a view of the face. Barely audible: 
Rooster I do not know this man. 
He reacts to something, looking up the road in the direction of their heading. 
Mattie looks out. Partly obscured by intervening foliage, an oncoming rider. His pace is unhurried. 
Down on the ground Rooster turns to face the rider--an Indian with a long-bore rifle balanced sideways across the pommel of his saddle. He wears a tattered Union Army jacket, crossed bandoliers of rifle shells and a black homburg hat with a feather in its brim. 
Rooster drops his hand to his gun as the rider approaches. 
Mattie looks down at the foreshortened rider pulling up under the tree. She hears a greeting and a mostly inaudible exchange. 
After some back-and-forth the Indian dismounts. The men stoop at either end of the corpse. Rooster grabs wrists, the Indian, ankles. They lift. 
Mattie frowns. She starts to move. 
A MINUTE LATER 
Mattie finishes climbing down. 
Rooster is just returning from the road to their two horses by the tree. The Indian, with the corpse slung over the rump of his horse, is resuming his trip in the direction from which Rooster and Mattie came. 
Mattie He knew the hanged man? 
Moon We seen Ned and Haze two days ago. We's supposed-- 
Quincy Don't act the fool! If you blow I will kill you! 
Moon I am played out. I must have a doctor. We's supposed-- 
Quincy jerks up one knee, banging the bottom of the table and sloshing Rooster's sofky as he grabs something from his boot: a knife. 
He slams it down on Moon's cuffed hand, chopping off four fingers. They fly like chips from a log. 
As Moon screams Rooster mutters: 
Rooster God damn it! 
Quincy flips the knife lightly in the air and regrabs it with blade pointing opposite-wise. He twists and rears with cuffed hands to plunge the knife into Moon's chest. 
Rooster has his gun out now and fires. 
Quincy jerks back, hit in the face. Blood spatters Mattie. Quincy, still seated, slides awkwardly down the wall. 
Moon has fallen to the floor, knife in chest. 
Moon Oh lord, I am dying! 
Rooster and Mattie stand over him. 
. . . Do something! Help me! 
Rooster I can do nothing for you, son. Your pard has killed you and I have done for him. 
Moon Don't leave me lying here! Don't let the wolves rip me up! 
Rooster I'll see you are buried right. You tell me about Ned. Where did you see him? 
Moon Two days ago at McAlester's store. They are coming here tonight to get remounts, and sofky. They just robbed the Katy Flyer at Wagoner's Switch if the snow didn't stop 'em. 
Eyes wide, he gazes down his body. 
. . . I am bleeding buckets! I am gone. Send the news to my brother, George Garrett. He is a Methodist circuit rider in South Texas. You can write care of the district supervisor in Austin. 
Rooster Should I tell him you was outlawed up? 
Moon It don't matter, he knows I am on the scout. I will meet him later walking the streets of Glory! 
Rooster Don't be looking for Quincy. 
OUTSIDE 
Mattie's point-of-view: the dark shoulders of the wooded hills, funneling down to the ravine. It is all very still except for falling snow. 
Mattie stands outside the cabin door, hugging herself, keeping watch. 
The door opens and Rooster emerges. 
Rooster Hobble our mounts in the corral out back. We don't know when they's coming. 
From the threshold he surveys the inside of the cabin. 
Mattie Is he dead? 
Rooster He is. I stowed the bodies under the blanket there. Just needs to look right enough to get 'em in the door. 
Something he sees inside prompts Rooster to quickly reenter the cabin. He reemerges, fist closed on something. 
. . . We'll climb that ridge there, fort up somewhere gives us a clear shot. 
He flings, and whatever he was holding lands faintly pit-a-pat in the woods. 
Mattie What was that? 
Rooster Fingers. 
RIDGE 
Rooster finishes hunkering down. 
He takes out his revolver and put a cartridge into the one empty chamber, under the hammer. He places the revolver on a log and puts the sack of cartridges next to the revolver. He leans his rifle against the log. He looks out. 
His point-of-view of the cabin below, peaceful, smoke drifting from the chimney. 
Mattie What do we do, Marshal? 
Rooster We sit. What does he do? 
The riders stop several paces from LeBoeuf. They spread in a line facing him. Words are exchanged; we cannot make them out. 
LeBoeuf unholsters a gun and points it at the four men. 
Rooster He is a fine one for not drawing attention to himself. 
The four men, slouched astride their horses, are not impressed by LeBoeuf's gun. There is more talking. 
Rooster Him in the woolly chaps is Lucky Ned. 
He refers to the mounted man who does most of the talking. Lucky Ned now speaks to the men on either side and the two corners advance, closing a circle around LeBoeuf. 
LeBoeuf looks warily from side side, swinging his gun to cover the group. None of the riders bothers to unholster a gun. 
The man to LeBoeuf's right lifts a rope off his saddle and casually twirls it. 
The man to his left says something: LeBoeuf looks left and the man to his right drops the rope around LeBoeuf and pulls it tight. LeBoeuf is jerked off his feet, gun dropping. The mounted man backs his horse, taking the play from the rope. He dallies the free end round his saddlehorn. 
Two of the men slide off their horses. 
One of them heads for the cabin door. 
Rooster Well, that's that. 
BANG!--the rifleshot, just at Mattie's ear, is deafening. 
The man heading to the cabin drops, shot in the back. 
The two horses that are now riderless rear and mill, panicked. 
The horse towing LeBoeuf also skitters, spooked, as its rider looks wildly about and starts shooting. 
Lucky Ned looks toward our vantage point and also begins firing. 
Rooster is methodically aiming and firing but in the commotion below his first couple of shots don't tell. His third drops Lucky Ned's horse. 
The other unmounted man is frantically trying to snatch up the reins of one of the loose horses. 
The man towing LeBoeuf spurs his horse toward one of the free horses, trying to grab it. LeBoeuf is dragged past plunging horses' hooves. 
A cacaphony of screaming horses, crackling gunfire from the basin, and the boom of Rooster's rifle. 
The unmounted man has managed to grab a halter. He climbs with difficulty aboard the skittish horse. 
The rider towing LeBoeuf cuts loose the towline. He gallops toward Ned Pepper with an arm outstretched to help him aboard. 
Rooster is tracking him with his rifle. 
Lucky Ned grabs the extended arm. As he begins to swing up there is the BOOM of Rooster's rifle. The rider pitches off the horse but Lucky Ned manages to stay on, and swipes up the reins. He gallops off. 
The one other surviving horseman follows him. 
There is one dead horse in the basin, a live unmounted horse racing crazy circles, and three still bodies. One is LeBoeuf's. 
Rooster rises. 
Rooster Well that didn't pan out. 
IN THE BASIN 
LeBoeuf is moaning. 
Rooster walks toward him trailed by Mattie, glancing along the way at the two dead men. 
Rooster You managed to put a kink in my rope, pardner. 
LeBoeuf I am theverely injured. 
Something is wrong with LeBoeuf's speech. Bloody saliva bubbles copiously from his mouth. 
Rooster Yes you got drug some. 
LeBoeuf Altho shshot. By a rifle. 
Rooster stoops to examine. 
We hear the smack of lips releasing bottleneck, and a wet breath. 
Rooster . . . You could not hit a man at three hundred yards if the gun was resting on Gibraltar. 
LeBoeuf The Sharp'sh carbine izh an inshtrument of uncanny power and precizhun. 
Rooster I have no doubt that the gun is sound. 
Silence. 
LeBoeuf shrugs. 
MORNING 
Wide: three riders leave the cabin single-file. 
Jump in: pushing Mattie, who rides last in line. LeBoeuf is in front of her. Rooster leads, head tipping momentarily back to swig from a bottle. 
He then half-hums, half-scats a tune. 
Mattie twists to look behind. 
Her point-of-view: pulling away from the cabin, against the wall of which the four dead men are now semi-drifted over with snow. Rooster's humming has stopped and we hear his voice: 
Rooster That was "Johnny in the Low Ground." There are very few fiddle tunes I have not heard. Once heard they are locked in my mind forever. It is a sadness to me that I have sausage fingers that cannot crowd onto a fretboard--little fat girls at a cotillion. "Soldier's Joy"! 
He launches into another song, interrupted by the slosh of liquid as he takes a drink. Mattie looks forward again and LeBoeuf turns to look back at her. He keeps his voice low: 
LeBoeuf I don't believe he shlept. 
Still without looking back, Rooster projects: 
Rooster Fort Smith is a healthy distance, LeBoeuf, but I would encourage the creature you ride to try to make it in a day. Out here a one-armed man looks like easy prey. 
LeBoeuf And a one-eyed man--who can't shshoodt? Why don't you tshurn back, Khoghburn? 
Rooster I will do fine. 
He twists around to gaily hector LeBoeuf: 
. . . I know where the Parmalee's claim is. I am uninjured, I am provisioned--and we agreed to separate. 
LeBoeuf In conscschiensh you cannot shite our agreement. You are the pershon who shshot me. 
Mattie Mr. LeBoeuf has a point, Marshal. It is an unfair leg-up in any competition to shoot your opposite number. 
Rooster God damn it! I don't accept it as a given that I did shoot LeBoeuf. There was plenty of guns going off. 
LeBoeuf I heard a rifle and felt the ball. You mishshed your shshodt, Khoghburn, admit it. You are more handicapped without the eye than I without the arm. 
Rooster Missed my shot! I can hit a gnat's eye at ninety yards! 
He reins his horse up, hastily tips the bottle to his mouth to make sure it is empty, and then hurls it high. 
He pulls out a navy six-gun and fires. 
The bottle reaches the height of its arc untouched, and drops. 
Rooster cocks his head at the landed bottle several paces distant. He shoots again and misses. He shoots a third time and the bottle shatters. 
Rooster The chinaman is running them cheap shells on me again. 
LeBoeuf I tdhought you were going to shay the shun was in your eyezh. That izh to shay, your eye. 
Rooster starts to dismount, finishing in a semi-controlled fall. He dusts one knee and reaches into his saddlebag. He pulls out a corn dodger and heaves it up. 
He fires. The corn dodger is obliterated. 
He reaches two corn dodgers from the saddlebag. 
Rooster Two at one time! 
He hurls them and quickly fires twice. Nothing happens; he quickly fires three times at the falling corn dodgers, missing. 
Scowling, he throws a single corn dodger and is just raising his gun when another gun goes off, making him jump. 
LeBoeuf has fired with a gun in his left hand, missing. 
Rooster I will chunk one high. Hold fire. 
Rooster sits heavily, a stretching leg kicking away an empty bottle. Rain patters on his hat. 
. . . He is a drag-brake for horses! 
Mattie Mr. LeBoeuf drew single-handed upon the Lucky Ned Pepper Gang while we fired safely from cover, like a band of sly Injuns! 
Rooster We? 
Mattie It is unfair to indict a man when his jaw is swollen and tongue mangled and who is therefore unable to rise to his own defense! 
LeBoeuf I can thpeak for mythelf. I am hardly obliged to anther the ravingth of a drunkard. It ith beneath me. 
He rises and starts gathering his things. 
. . . I shall make my own camp elthwhere. It ith you who have nothing to offer, Khoghburn. A shad picture indeed. Thish izh no longer a manhunt, it izh a debauch. The Texath Ranger preththeth on alone. 
Rooster Take the girl! I bow out! 
LeBoeuf A fine thing to deshide once you have brought her into the middle of the Choctaw Nation. Rooster I bow out! I wash my hands! 
Mattie Gentlemen, we cannot fall out in this fashion, so close to our goal, with Tom Chaney nearly in hand! 
Rooster erupts: 
Rooster In hand?! If he is not in a shallow grave, somewhere between here and Fort Smith, he is gone! Long gone! Thanks to Mr. LeBoeuf, we missed our shot! We have barked, and the birds have flown! Gone gone gone! Lucky Ned and his cohort, gone! Your fifty dollars, gone! Gone the whiskey seized in evidence! The trail is cold, if ever there was one! I am a foolish old man who has been drawn into a wild goose chase by a harpy in trousers--and a nincompoop! Well, Mr. LeBoeuf can wander the Choctaw Nation for as long as he likes; perhaps the local Indians will take him in and honor his gibberings by making him Chief! You, sister, may go where you like! I return home! Our engagement is terminated! I bow out! 
He whips his robe over himself. 
MINUTES LATER 
Wide on Mattie, staggering toward us carrying a saddle. We boom down to bring Little Blackie into the foreground as Mattie takes the last few stumbling steps forward, almost at a run so as to let her inertia help her heave the saddle up onto the horse's back. 
Mattie I am going with you. 
LeBoeuf, cinching a saddle onto his woolly horse, looks around. 
LeBoeuf Oh, that izh not poshible. 
Mattie Have I held you back? I have a Colt's dragoon revolver which I know how to use, and I would be no more of a burden to you than I was to the marshal. 
LeBoeuf That izh not my worry. You have earned your shpurzh, that izh clear enough--you have been a regular "old hand" on the trail. But Cogburn izh right, even if I would not give him the shatishfaction of consheding it. The trail izh cold, and I am conshiderably diminished. 
Mattie How can you give up now, after the many months you've dedicated to finding Chaney? You have shown great determination. I misjudged you. I picked the wrong man. 
LeBoeuf I would go on in your company if there were clear way to go. But we would be shtriking out blindly. Chelmshford izh gone--we have chaished him right off the map. There izh nothing for it. I am bound for Texash, and it izh time for you to go home too. 
He swings himself up onto the horse. 
. . . The marshal, when he shoberzh, izh your way back. 
Mattie I will not go back. Not without Chaney, dead or alive. 
LeBoeuf I misjudged you as well. I eckshtend my hand. 
He does, dropping a hand gloved in rough suede. She refuses to take it. 
Mattie Mr. LeBoeuf! Please! 
He remains with hand extended. She hesitates, sees there is no give, and reaches for up for the hand. They shake. 
LeBoeuf Adiosh! 
He saws the horse around and sets it to a prancing walk, his spurs jingling. 
The sound recedes, leaving behind Rooster's snoring from the campfire. 
CAMPFIRE 
Rooster's snores bump up at the cut. 
Mattie enters, gazes down for a thinking beat at the passed-out lawman, then lies down on her robe. 
She lies still, gazing up. 
After a long beat she abruptly rises. 
She recedes toward the horses. As she reaches them we hear Little Blackie snort and blow. 
Mattie returns with a length of coiled rope. She plays it out in a loop around her robe. She lies down again. She closes her eyes. 
. . . You will not go with me? 
Chaney I think not. It is just the other way around. You are going with me. I will-- 
Mattie fires. 
Chaney, shocked, takes a staggering step back. 
Mattie stumbles and falls back under the recoil, into the stream but careful to hold the gun high and dry. She awkwardly reclaims her footing and retrains the gun. Chaney is looking down at his bleeding side. 
Chaney I did not think you would do it. 
Mattie What do you think now? 
Chaney One of my short ribs is broken. It hurts jiggers every breath I take. 
Mattie You killed my father when he was trying to help you. I have one of the gold pieces you took from him. Now give me the other. 
She is struck by a worrying thought. She hastily recocks the gun. 
Chaney I regret that shooting. Mr. Ross was decent to me but he ought not to have meddled in my business. 
Crashing from the brush up the hill, and a voice: 
Rooster Mattie! 
Mattie I am down here! Chaney is taken into custody! 
Chaney I was drinking and I was mad through and through. Nothing has gone right for me. 
There is yelling from the other bank now too. Mattie No, you are just a piece of trash, that is all. 
Chaney Everything is against me. Now I am shot by a child. 
He sloshes suddenly forward, water kicking up before him. 
Mattie Stop! 
She squeezes the trigger, but the gun dry fires. 
Chaney grabs the gun and flings it away, then holds on to Mattie and slaps her. 
Mattie Help me! Down here! Hurry up! 
Two men burst through the brush from Chaney's side of the river. One is in woolly chaps --Lucky Ned Pepper. The other is taller and dressed almost formally in a linen suit and string tie and a bear coat. Both men bear Winchester repeating rifles. 
Chaney is dragging Mattie to their bank, slapping at her along the way. 
Rooster emerges from his side of the riverbank carrying a side arm. 
The men exchange fire. 
Lucky Ned (to Chaney) Take them horses you got and move! 
He grabs Mattie from Chaney and keeps her between himself and the far bank as he fires again. 
One hand to his bleeding side, Chaney lunges for the horses' leads. 
Rooster has retreated back to the tree cover, as has the well dressed man on our side. Intermittent gunshots and the panicked neighing of horses. Lucky Ned falls back into the trees with Mattie and starts pulling her up the steep hill. 
Chaney follows pulling the string of horses. He is breathing hard and blood stains the front of his shirt. Lucky Ned (to Chaney) Get on up that hill! Don't you stop. 
He twists Mattie around to face him and we see him clearly for the first time. Part of his upper lip and three of his front teeth are missing. 
. . . Who all is down there? 
Mattie Marshal Cogburn and fifty more officers. 
Lucky Ned throws Mattie to the ground. He puts a muddy boot on her neck. 
Lucky Ned Tell me another lie and I will stove your head in! 
Mattie manages to choke out: 
Mattie Just the marshal. 
Lucky Ned Cogburn! Do you hear me? 
Silence. 
Mattie No you won't. This man will not let you have your way. He is your boss and you must do as he tells you. 
Chaney turns to Lucky Ned who has a spyglass to his eye, scanning a ridge across the river. 
Chaney Five minutes is well up! 
Lucky Ned speaks quietly, without lowering the glass: 
Lucky Ned I will give him a little more time. 
From somewhere in the woods below we hear the idiot's gobbling noises. 
Chaney How much more? 
Lucky Ned Til I think he has had enough. 
The voice of the well dressed man floats up from the woods: 
Well Dressed Man He is gone, Ned! I can see nothing! We had best make a move! 
Lucky Ned Hold fast a while there, Doctor! 
Mattie looks at Chaney moaning in pain as the ex-soldier works on his side. 
Mattie Why doesn't the Doctor do that? 
Lucky Ned replies absently, still gazing out: 
Lucky Ned He is not a medical doctor. Was that Rooster waylaid us night before last? 
Mattie It was Marshal Cogburn and myself. 
Lucky Ned Yourself, eh? You and Cogburn, quite the posse. 
He sees something and hastily raises the glass. 
A horseman is ascending the treeless ridge across the river with a riderless horse--Little Blackie--in tow. At the top he pauses and turns, and draws a revolver from his saddle and points it skyward. We see the gun kick and breathe gunsmoke. A second later we hear the shot. Lucky Ned lowers the glass and takes a gun and shoots skyward. He raises the glass again. 
The horseman turns away and proceeds on over the crest. He is gone. 
Lucky Ned turns to Mattie. He comes and squats at the fire. 
Lucky Ned Your friend is gone. You are alone. 
The well dressed man and the idiot trudge up from the woods onto the rock ledge. 
The man in the dirty uniform continues to perform crude field surgery on Chaney, digging into his side with a knife to extract the bullet. As Chaney moans the idiot makes calf- bawling noises in imitation. 
Well Dressed Man We must move, Ned. 
Lucky Ned You are too nervous, Doctor. It will be hours before he is back with help. 
Lucky Ned turns back to Mattie. 
. . . What happened to Quincy, and The Kid? 
Mattie They are both dead. I was in the very middle of it. It was a terrible thing to see. Do you need a good lawyer? 
Lucky Ned I need a good judge. What about Coke Hayes--the old fellow shot off his horse? 
Mattie Dead as well. His depredations have come to an end. 
Lucky Ned Poor Coke. He rode back for me. Coke Hayes had spine, and could keep his wits in a tight spot. Dead now, but he should have been dead ten times afore now. Your friend Rooster does not collect many prisoners. Mattie He is not my friend. He has abandoned me to a congress of louts. 
Lucky Ned You do not varnish your opinions. 
Well Dressed Man Are we staying here for chat? 
The idiot is still bawling. Chaney grabs a stone and flings it at him and the idiot scampers back, making goat noises. Chaney grabs, moaning, at the wound aggravated by this fresh exertion. 
The man in officer's boards laughs. 
Soldier Do an owl, Harold! 
Idiot Hoo! Hoo! Hoo! 
Chaney Let us cut up the winnings from the Katie Flyer. 
Lucky Ned straightens from the fire and begins to collect his meager belongings. The other men follow suit. 
He swats her with his free hand. Her clawing stops. 
Chaney is wincing from the swing of his own arm. As he leans over her his opened wound dribbles blood onto Mattie along with his sweat. 
. . . In honesty, I do not regret shooting him. He thought Tom Chaney was small. Lucky Ned thinks the same. And you would give me an affidavit. 
He reaches back awkwardly toward his calf with his bad hand, groaning with the stretch. We hear the schlick of steel and his hand reappears holding a knife taken from a leg sheath. 
. . . You are all against me. Everything is against me. 
He pushes against the underside of Mattie's chin, stretching her neck. 
Her eyes roll down in their sockets to watch as Chaney regrips the knife and lowers it to her throat, his knuckles whitening with tension. 
. . . But here at least I have matters in hand, and once I have done for you-- 
Whack--a rifle stock swings into frame, connecting with Chaney's head. His head snaps to one side and then lolls back as he slowly straightens, ropey drool and blood pouring from his mouth. He sways briefly and then collapses onto Mattie. 
A hand enters to pull him off. Mattie blearily props herself on her elbows. 
LeBoeuf is panting and sweating from his climb. He gazes down at Chaney. Once he has breath: 
LeBoeuf Sho that ish Chelmthford. Shtrange to be sho closhe at lasht. 
Mattie How is it you are here? 
LeBoeuf's look breaks from Chaney. He pulls his pipe from his pocket and lights it. 
LeBoeuf I heard the shotsh and went down to the river. . . 
He crosses the rock ledge. 
. . . Cogburn outlined a plan. Hizh part, I fear, izh rash. (reacts to hole) But that izh a pit there! Mind your footing. 
He skirts the large hole and reaches the shelf's far lip and gazes out. Before him is a steep drop-off. We see the very crowns of near pines and then, four hundred yards away, the land flattening to an open meadow. 
Mattie, also gazing out, comes up beside LeBoeuf. 
Mattie A plan? 
LeBoeuf points with his pipe. 
LeBoeuf He returnzh for Lucky Ned. 
Lucky Ned, the Parmalees, and the Doctor are just entering the low meadow, riding away. As they do so Rooster enters at the far side, facing. He draws one of his navy sixes as he advances. 
Mattie One against four. It is ill advised. 
Leboeuf shrugs. 
LeBoeuf He would not be dishuaded. 
He and Mattie both watch as, below, the parties advance on each other at a walk. Eighty yards separating them, they halt. 
THE MEADOW 
Rooster and Lucky Ned eye each other. After a beat: 
Lucky Ned Well, Rooster, will you give us the road? 
Idiot Moo! Moo! 
Rooster Hello, Ned. How many men are with the girl? 
Lucky Ned Just Chaney. Our agreement is in force: she was in excellent health when last I saw her. 
Rooster nods. 
A beat. 
Rooster Farrel, I want you and your brother to stand clear. You as well, Doctor. I have no interest in you today. 
Lucky Ned What is your intention, Rooster? Do you think one on four is a dogfall? 
Rooster I mean to kill you in one minute, Ned. Or see you hanged in Fort Smith at Judge Parker's convenience. Which will you have? 
Ned Pepper laughs. 
Lucky Ned I call that bold talk for a one-eyed fat man! 
Mattie screams. 
LeBoeuf has collapsed and is motionless. Chaney drops the rock and stoops for the rifle. 
Mattie is already dragging it away. She grabs it up. 
Mattie Stand up, Tom Chaney! 
Chaney stands nearly straight--as much as his injuries will allow, and-- 
Boom!--the blast catches Chaney in the chest and he is blown back off the ledge, looking surprised. He falls to oblivion. 
But the carbine recoil pushes Mattie stumbling back and this, with the bad footing at the lip of the pit behind her, sends her falling. 
PIT 
Mattie is tumbling. She bounces down a very steep slope, disturbed earth tumbling with her, protruding roots and slender upgrowing foliage slapping at her on her descent. 
As she descends more or less feet-first something snags an ankle and her inertia sends her upper body on down past the pinned leg. She jerks to a halt head-downmost on the steep slope. 
The patter of falling dirt subsides. Silence. Heavy breathing. 
Mattie, lying face-up, does a painful half sit-up to look around. 
Above her, her left foot is snarled through some roots. Well beyond, very high, weak light defines the mouth of the pit. 
Using her elbows she pivots, scooting her upper body uphill so that she is no longer below her foot. She reaches the cuff of her pants on the trapped leg and pulls it up to expose the shin. 
A splinter of broken bone has punctured the skin. 
She pulls the cuff back down. 
She stretches to slip fingers between her boot and the roots in which it is fouled. She just manages to work in two fingers; in wrenching around, the root has cinched tight. She tugs feebly at the root, which shows no signs of give. 
She looks back up. 
The small hole of weak daylight, dust drifting up toward it. 
Mattie Mr. LeBoeuf! Are you alive! 
No answer. 
. . . Mr. LeBoeuf! 
Arms tiring, she lays back again against earth. She looks around. 
Partway round the pit, just at her level, something difficult to discern in the semi-dark: two mirroring shapes, close to each other: is it the soles of a pair of boots? 
Mattie squints. She props herself partway up. 
Higher view: they are boots--worn by a corpse--stretching away from us, foreshortened. The man's skull has been partly shattered by the protruding rock against which it rests. 
Mattie surveys the body. Her attention is caught by something: 
The skeletal remains are still clothed and there seems to be something held by a bandolier strapped across the chest, over the body's decomposing blue shirt but beneath a tattered vest. A sheath is just visible high on the strap, near the corpse's shoulder. The butt-end of a knife juts out. 
Mattie stretches, reaching. 
She can just get to a boot. 
She pulls. 
The man's remains seem to be fairly light. They drag across earth, raising dust, tending to slide away with the grade of the pit. 
Mattie reels the body in, careful not to let go and lose it down the hill. She pulls shoe, pants cuff, pants knee, belt. The bandolier is close. 
Her fingers curl around shirt, and pull. 
The shirt's buttons softly pop and fiber dust drifts up as the fabric falls to pieces. Rib cage is exposed beneath. 
Mattie hastily reaches and curls fingers around ribs. She pulls. She is about to get the knife when-- 
A glistening something inside the rib cage--guts?--starts to slowly move. But it can't be guts: it is gliding, coiling, under its own power. 
A faint rattle. 
Mattie screams as the ball of waking snakes quickens. One snake starts to slowly emerge, and she bats the body away. 
She pushes and kicks with her free leg, as much as her pinned attitude will allow. The body, coming to pieces, slides dustily down into the dark. It disappears. Fiber and bone dust float up toward us. We hear rattles. Mattie hastily reaches for the root that pins her and in a panic pulls, looking back toward the body. The root holds fast. 
Rooster I must get you to a doctor, sis, or you are not going to make it. (to LeBoeuf) The girl is snakebit. We are off. 
He swings up behind her and nods down to LeBoeuf. 
. . . I am in your debt for that shot, pard. 
LeBoeuf Never doubt the Texash Ranger. 
Rooster reins the horse around and spurs it. LeBouef shouts after: 
. . . Ever shtalwart! 
The horse takes to the steep slope reluctantly, with stiff legs, Rooster kicking it on. Tree branches slap at him and take his hat. His face, already peppered with shot, gets new scratches. 
THE MEADOW 
Mattie is woozy. As Little Blackie crosses the field at full gallop Mattie looks blearily at the littering bodies of horses and men. 
Next to Lucky Ned's body his horse, saddled and riderless, swings its head to watch as Rooster and Mattie pass. 
Mattie's eyes are closing. 
LATE DAY 
Mattie's eyes half-open. 
Little Blackie plunges on, through a rough road in woods, but slower now, his mouth foaming. 
Rooster Come on, you! 
Mattie We must stop. Little Blackie is played out. 
Horrible noises are indeed coming from the horse, but Rooster is grim: 
Rooster We have miles yet. 
He leaves off whipping the horse and takes out his knife. He leans back and slashes at the horse's whithers. Little Blackie surges. 
Mattie screams. 
Mattie No! 
A locked-down shot as horse and riders enter at a gallop and recede. 
NIGHT 
It has started to snow. 
Mattie is flushed and soaked with sweat. 
The horse is laboring for breath. 
Rooster gives inarticulate curses as he kicks it on. 
Mattie looks ahead: 
Barely visible in the moonlight a man mounted bareback rides on ahead. A sash cord holds a rifle to his back. 
He recedes, outpacing us, disappearing into the darkness and the falling snow. 
Mattie He is getting away. 
Rooster Who is getting away? 
Mattie Chaney. 
Rooster Hold on, sis. 
Mattie is falling. It is unclear why. 
Her legs squeeze the horses flanks. 
Her hand tightens on the horses mane. 
Rooster's arm reaches around to hold her. 
Little Blackie is giving out, going to his knees and then all the way down. 
Rooster hangs on to Mattie as the horse sinks. He pulls her clear, lays her on the ground, and then steps away from her, taking out a gun. 
