"The Truman Show", early, by Andrew M. Niccol 
THE TRUMAN SHOW 
A Screen Play 
By 
Andrew M. Niccol 
FADE IN 
A white title appears on a black screen. 
"One doesn't discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of the shore for a very long time." 
Andre Gide 
The title fades off, replaced by a second title. 
"We're all in this alone." 
Lily Tomlin 
INT.  A WOMB.  DAY. 
A fiber optic camera observes a five-month-old MALE FETUS as he gently floats, weightless, suspended in the amniotic fluid of his mother's womb.  We focus on the unborn's hand, already a tiny, exquisite work of art, moving towards his newly formed lips.  He sucks his thumb. 
INT.  HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM.  DAY. 
A seconds old BABY BOY - umbilical cord still attached, smeared with blood and protective skin grease - is held up by an anonymous pair of latex gloves to the camera.  Shocked by the unaccustomed light and cool of the delivery room, the newborn fights for his first, arduous breath.  Following almost immediately, a cry. 
From another angle we see the crying infant on a television screen, the individual lines of the screen clearly visible. 
MATCH DISSOLVE TO 
INT.  CAR - UTOPIA, QUEENS.  MORNING. 
The face of the baby thirty-four years later, still crying. TRUMAN BURBANK, thinning hair, a body going soft around the edges, appearing older than his thirty-four years sits at the wheel of his eight-year-old Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.  He cries without shame, making no attempt to wipe away the tears. 
Pausing at an intersection in a quiet, working-class suburban street, a spherical glass object suddenly falls from the sky and lands with a deafening crash on the roadway, several yards in front of his idling car. 
Truman exits the Oldsmobile to investigate.  Amidst a sea of shattered glass are the remains of a light mechanism. 
He looks around him but the street is deserted.  He checks that all the surrounding streetlights are accounted for, even though the fallen fixture is far larger.  He looks up into the sky but there is no plane in sight.  With some effort, Truman picks up what's left of the crumpled light, loads it into the trunk of his car and drives away. 
INT.  CAR - TRAIN STATION PARKING LOT.  MORNING. 
TRUMAN sits behind the wheel of his car, unscrews the cap of a miniature bottle of Jack Daniels and empties the contents into his Styrofoam cup of coffee.  Stirring it in with his finger, he burns himself. 
TRUMAN Shit! 
As Truman drinks, he becomes aware of the delighted squeals of children coming from the gymnasium of Utopia Elementary School, adjacent to the parking lot.  The sound of the children triggers a memory in his head. 
EXT.  LONG, WIDE BEACH.  DAY, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER. 
Unlike a conventional flashback, the scene in his memory appears to be playing on a television screen. 
A sandy-haired, SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN, runs towards a bluff on the beach. 
The boy's father, KIRK, late-thirties, beer bottle in hand, flirts with two TEENAGE GIRLS at the shoreline.  Suddenly, the father remembers his son.  He looks anxiously around.  The sight of the boy at the far end of the beach causes him to drop his bottle in the sand and run to him. 
The boy is near the top of the cliff before his agitated father comes within earshot. 
FATHER (out of breath, clutching his side) Truman!  Truman!  Stop! 
Truman turns from his perch and waves happily down to his father.  But the smile quickly vanishes when he registers the anger and distress on his father's face. 
FATHER Come down now! 
His father's unnatural anxiety makes the next bay even more tantalizing.  The boy considers defying his father.  He puts his hand on the rock above him to stretch up and sneak a peek at the other side.  One good stretch would do it. 
FATHER (reading Truman's mind, enraged) No! 
TRUMAN (sensing his father is keeping something from him) Why?  What's there? 
Truman replaces the receiver, disappointed. 
INT.  LOCAL ITALIAN DELI.  LUNCHTIME. 
TRUMAN stands in line with a crush of other WHITE COLLAR WORKERS.  As he reaches the counter, the store owner, TYRONE, has anticipated his order and ahs already begun preparing a meatball and mozzarella sandwich on Italian roll.  Truman gazes at the sandwich skillfully under construction, pained by his own predictability. 
TYRONE (nauseatngly cheerful) How's it goin', Truman? 
TRUMAN (deadpan) Not bad.  I just won the State Lottery. 
TYRONE (not listening to Truman's reply, as Truman anticipated) Good.  Good. 
TRUMAN Tyrone, what if I said I didn't want meatball today? 
TYRONE (not missing a beat) I'd ask for identification. 
Truman forces a half-smile. 
We focus on another MALE OFFICE WORKER in line at the cash register, watching Truman out of the corner of his eye.  About to depart with his sandwich, the man receives a guarded rebuke from the FEMALE CASHIER. 
FEMALE CASHIER (a whisper to prevent Truman overhearing) He's right there.  You're supposed to pay when he's here. 
MALE CUSTOMER (nonchalant shrug as he departs) He never notices. 
We re-focus our attention on Truman who is taking the wrapped sandwich from Tyrone. 
TYRONE Hold on, Truman.  I got somethin' to show ya. 
Tyrone holds up a front page of the New York Post that features a photograph of a scaled-down replica of Columbus' Santa Maria, moored in front of the Manhattan skyline.  Truman's eyes widen at the photograph. 
TYRONE (referring to the photo) The flagship of Christoforo...our Genoese navigator, huh?  I know you love this like me. 
TRUMAN (averting his eyes with difficulty) Not me.  You got the wrong man. 
Tyrone tries not to let his disappointment show as Truman pays the Cashier and exits. 
TYRONE See ya tomorrow, Truman. 
EXT.  CITY PARK.  DAY. 
TRUMAN eats lunch alone on a concrete bench in a cement park. From his briefcase he pulls out an old hardcovered book, "To The Ends Of The Earth - The Age Of Exploration". 
A TRANSIENT in a wheelchair approaches, looking for a handout. Truman gives the homeless man half of his sandwich, reconsiders and gives him it all, his appetite gone.  As the transient wheels himself away, Truman loses himself in his book. 
INT.  A DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY. 
Close up on an old man's face.  CHRISTOF.  Hair pure white, late-sixties, a vitality in his eyes that belies his years. 
He stands beside a floor-to-ceiling window in a dimly-lit room. Outside the window, a single palm tree swaying against a deep blue Californian sky.  A news anchor-style earpiece disappears down the neck of the unconventionally-cut suit he wears. 
Suspended from the ceiling above his head is a television monitor upon which a surveillance picture of Truman, engrossed in his book, silently plays. 
CHLOE, twenty-something, androgenous-looking, similarly-suited, joins Christof at the window. 
CHRISTOF (never taking his eyes from the monitor) You ever pass a car wreck on the side of the road?  They're pulling out a body.  You know you shouldn't look, but you do. 
INT.  A CONFERENCE ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY. 
A group of a dozen MEN and WOMEN of varying ages sit around a circular conference table in a sterile, windowless meeting room.  All stare at a single telephone placed in the center of the table, anticipating a call.  On cue, the phone rings and one of the men, after waiting for the second ring, picks up. 
MAN Hello?...I'm sorry, I got more than enough insurance. 
He hangs up.  After a moment the phone rings again. 
INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY.  DAY. 
TRUMAN sits at his desk, making a cold call. 
TRUMAN (into receiver) ...this isn't about insurance, this is about the great variable - when will death occur?  Could be a week, a month, a year.  Could happen today...A sunbather, minding his own business, gets stabbed in the heart by the tip of a runaway beach umbrella...No way you can guard against that kinda thing, no way at all... 
The prospect on the other end, unimpressed with his pitch, hangs up.  Truman's supervisor, LAWRENCE, younger than Truman by several years, sharper suit, sharper haircut, appears around the corner of the cubicle. 
LAWRENCE (handing Truman some documentation) Hey, Burbank, I got a bridge-buyer in Stapleton I need you to cloes by four. 
Truman turns pale. 
YOUTH 1 (more insistent) You wannna read to me? 
The woman looks up, unaware of the boys' presence until now. She quickly avoids eye contact and returns to the book.  The other boy reaches over and snatches the novel from her grasp. 
YOUTH 2 (menacing) My friend asked you a question. 
The woman picks up her bag from the floor in a reflex and holds it to her.  She looks around the train for assistance, briefly catching Truman's eye.  The youths also look in Truman's direction, staring him down, daring him to interfere. Truman quickly averts his gaze. 
WOMAN (reaching for the book) Please... 
The boy returns the book to the woman, but before doing so rips out the last page from the novel and stuffs it in his shirt pocket. 
YOUTH 2 Now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends. 
The train pulls into a deserted station.  Feeling vulnerable, the woman jumps up from her seat and exits.  The youths, sensing a chase, also exit.  Scanning the empty platform, the woman realizes she has made a serious error.  Truman watches through the train's open door as the boys corner the frightened woman but still he remains in his seat. 
YOUTH 1 We're gonna tell you how it ends, baby. 
One of the youths produces a knife from his pocket and waves it in the woman's face. 
YOUTH 2 Don't you wanna know how it ends? 
The boys pin the woman to the station wall with the weight of their bodies.  The woman looks again in Truman's direction. Again she makes eye contact, eyes pleading. 
WOMAN (screams) Help!!  Please, help!! 
The woman's second scream is muffled as the train door closes. Truman looks up to the emergency handle beside the door.  There is still time to act.  He stands up and half-reaches for the handle but moves no further. 
The train abruptly pulls away, leaving Truman time to see one of the youths covering the woman's mouth while the other reaches under her skirt before the train enters the tunnel.  Truman bows his head in shame as the train rattles on. 
INT.  SUBWAY STATION.  DAY. 
The train safely out of sight, the YOUTHS promptly release the WOMAN.  She calmly hitches down her skirt, no longer afraid. The young men, no longer angry, help fix her hair and retrieve her shoulder bag. 
WOMAN Thanks. 
The threesome walk along the platform together, as if lifelong friends. 
WOMAN (pondering the incident) He did nothing. 
YOUTH 1 (shrugs, suddenly more couth) Physical violence paralyzes him.  Always has. 
EXT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  DUSK. 
The backyard of a modest but tidy one-story tract home.  Beyond the plank fence at the end of the property flows a busy Expressway. 
TRUMAN wheels a lawnmower towards the garage as his wife, MERYL, pulls up the drive in her four-year-old Toyota Camry.  She has a sensible blue vinyl bag over her shoulder and carries a new knife-set in a wooden block.  She kisses Truman affectionately on the cheek. 
MERYL (proudly referring to the knife-set) I got it free with the tune-up. 
Looking over Truman's shoulder, she notices a small uncut patch of grass, missed by Truman in one of his passes. 
MERYL You missed a section. 
Meryl enters the house.  Truman restarts the lawnmower and obediantly pushes it towards the offending patch of lawn.  As the mower brushes up against the unconforming blades of grass, Truman pulls back abruptly.  He checks the kitchen window for Meryl and wheels the mower away, leaving the patch uncut. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  DAY. 
MERYL is applying ointment to her wrists as TRUMAN enters. 
TRUMAN (referring to her hands) Do they hurt? 
MERYL I was afraid I'd seize up during cross. One of the keys kept sticking. 
Truman picks up Meryl's newspaper and skims idly through it.  He notes an article headlined, "SLAYING TRIAL ENTERS SIXTH WEEK". 
TRUMAN (referring to the article) Is he gonna take the stand? 
MERYL (dispassionate, matter-of-fact) No point.  Two eye witnesses saw him near the dumpster where they found the legs. 
She flexes her arthritic wrists. 
MERYL You gonna eat before you leave? 
TRUMAN I'll get something out. 
TRUMAN (slightly the worse for drink) Tick-fucking-tock.  That's the fucking problem, Marlon.  I'm thirty-four.  I'm older than Jesus Christ. 
Marlon looks sideways at Truman.  It sounds to him like the beer talking. 
TRUMAN Where do the dreams go, Marlon? 
MARLON (picking up the last ball marked with an initial "T", trying to ignore the question) You win. 
TRUMAN I'm serious.  Where do the dreams go? 
MARLON (humoring his maudlin friend) They're still there.  Just buried under what we settled for. 
They approach Truman's Oldsmobile.  Truman opens the trunk to deposit their humble golfing equipment.  Inside are the remains of the fallen light fixture. 
TRUMAN (referring to the light) You really think it could've dropped off an airliner? 
MARLON (unimpressed) Sure.  It's halogen.  You oughta report it. (quickly changing the subject) You coming for a drink? 
TRUMAN I can't tonight. 
EXT.  EATON'S NECK POINT.  DUSK, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER. 
The lines of a television screen signal another of Truman's flashbacks.  A small group of MOURNERS in black, several openly weeping, stand on the end of a small jetty, including the SEVEN- YEAR-OLD TRUMAN, dry-eyed in an ill-fitting suit, his weeping MOTHER, older sister, RAQUEL, and a PRIEST at the head of the gathering. 
The priest nods to Truman who holds an ornate wreath, heavy and cumbersome in his tiny hands.  He heaves it off the dock. 
MATCH DISSOLVE TO 
EXT.  EATON'S NECK POINT, LONG ISLAND.  NIGHT, PRESENT. 
A smaller, more simple wreath lands on the calm, dark water beyond the jetty twenty-seven years later.  TRUMAN stares at the wreath for a long moment, turns and wanders back towards the shoreline. 
In his work suit minus his shoes and socks, he sits on the sand. He has a portable tape recorder slung over his shoulder and points a corded microphone at the surf.  For a long while we watch Truman's impassive face as he makes the recording of the lapping waves, staring up at the handful of stars visible through the gloom. 
We focus on the lantern room of a nearby lighthouse.  From the light's POV, through the green hue of a night vision camera, we observe Truman get to his feet and walk towards the dark water. 
TRUMAN (shouting at the surf) I'm sorry!  I'm sorry! 
INT.  DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT. 
CHRISTOF's dispassionate face is reflected in the screen of a television monitor that displays the distraught TRUMAN at the water's edge. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
At the Formica kitchen table, TRUMAN makes calculations in a school notebook, a bottle of beer close at hand.  MERYL appears in her robe, a glimpse of black negligee beneath, restless.  She throws her arms around Truman's neck. 
MERYL (suggestive) What are you doing?  Come to bed. 
TRUMAN (ignoring the suggestion) I figure we could scrape together eight thousand. 
MERYL (suddenly exasperated) Oh.  God, everytime you and Marlon-- 
TRUMAN --We could bum around the world for a year on that. 
MERYL And then what, Truman?  We'd be back to where we were five years ago.  You're talking like a teenager. 
TRUMAN Maybe I feel like a teenager. 
Getting to his feet.  Truman holds Meryl by the arms, talking excitedly to her the way we imagine he did when they were courting. 
TRUMAN Meryl, it'd be an adventure. 
MERYL We said we'd try for a baby.  Isn't that enough of an adventure? 
TRUMAN That can wait.  I want to get away.  See some of the world.  Explore. 
Meryl gives a derisive laugh. 
MERYL You want to be an explorer?  You mean like all the other great explorers from Queens? You don't even have a passport, Truman.  I bet you don't even know how to get one. 
The words sting.  Truman turns away. 
Seeing the pain she's caused, she changes tack. 
MERYL This'll pass.  Everybody thinks like this now and then. (making one more attempt at seduction) Come to bed. 
Fumbling with the gear stick. he finally finds reverse but turns to find a hostile group of PEDESTRIANS herded tightly together behind the car, leaving Truman with nowhere left to go. 
The car door is suddenly jerked open and the out-of-breath PARKING ATTENDANT yanks Truman from the driver's seat. 
ATTENDANT What the fuck are you trying to pull?! 
TRUMAN (cowering, the fight instantly gone out of him) I'm sorry!  I'm sorry!  No harm done! No harm done! 
ATTENDANT (feverishly inspecting the fenders for dents, he finds none) I oughta fuck you up! 
The Attendant looks into Truman's terrified eyes.  They get the better of him. 
ATTENDANT Get the fuck outta here. 
The Attendant shoves Truman's briefcase into his arms and brushes him aside.  As he departs, Truman notices that the traffic jam in the street and the mysterious crowd of pedestrians has dissolved. 
EXT.  BUS DEPOT.  DAY. 
Row after row of parked buses.  TRUMAN and MARLON exit an administration office.  Instead of heading for the exit, Truman begins marching down the first row of buses, inspecting the number painted on the rear of each one. 
MARLON What're you doing? (gesturing to the office) The man told you there's no such bus. 
TRUMAN He's lying.  Two, four, oh, six was definitely the number. 
Marlon stops walking.  Truman continues his inspection.  Seeing there is no reasoning with him, Marlon hurries to catch him up. 
TRUMAN I never believed he was dead. 
MARLON (trying to be patient) C'mon, Truman, a lotta times they don't find a body.  You know what the currents are like in that water. 
TRUMAN (shudders, a memory flashing in his head) You had to see his face when that wave hit. He wasn't scared Marion.  It was like he was expecting it, waiting for it.  He knew it was coming. 
MARLON Why would he fake it? (trying to make light) He's not Elvis Presley. 
TRUMAN (ignoring the joke, pondering the morning's events) You know what was really strange about today? An old woman with a little dog and a businessman, walking in opposite directions on the sidewalk, both react like clockwork. They force him onto a bus against his will, a bus that doesn't normally stop outside my building.  And when I'm giving chase, the bus never makes another stop and I get the feeling that the traffic and the pedestrians are working together to make sure I never catch up with it. 
MARLON (sarcastic) Oh, so now it's also the pedestrians and the buses and the cars?  What are you saying, the entire population of Lower Manhattan is conspiring to stop you finding out that your father staged his death to pursue a life as a street person?  Oh yeah, that makes sense. 
Truman has no answer.  We see an aerial shot of Truman and Marlon on a television screen, continuing to check the rows of buses, Marlon still marveling at Truman's obstinance.  They have come to the last bus in the final row.  Truman hangs his head.  The offending bus is not amongst them.  He makes towards the exit without comment and Marlon follows. 
Unseen by the pair, we focus on the ID number on one of the buses they have previously checked - "2400".  A single drip of black paint trickles off the last freshly painted digit. 
EXT.  MANHATTAN STREET.  DAY. 
TRUMAN and MARLON, drinking beer, sit in the rear doorway of Marion's delivery van, wholesale-sized boxes of candy stacked behind them. 
TRUMAN You think I imagined it, don't you? 
MARLON I think you're missing your dad. (trying to be delicate) The anniversary was yesterday, wasn't it? 
Truman is surprised Marlon remembered.  Marlon nods to the sidewalk. 
MARLON You got sand in your cuffs. 
Truman looks down at his feet.  A small, tell-tale pile of sand has poured out of his tight trouser cuff. 
TRUMAN Maybe you're right.  If only the old woman hadn't left her dog behind. 
We see a flashback in Truman's head of the earlier scene in the Lower Manhattan street.  It confirms that the old woman's DOG was abandoned on the sidewalk. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S MOTHER'S APARTMENT, QUEENS.  DAY. 
TRUMAN stands in the corridor of his mother's cramped, fussy. doilyed apartment with his older sister, RAQUEL, late forties, prematurely grey.  Through a doorway, the figure of his MOTHER is visible asleep in bed, despite the early hour.  Truman and Raquel speak in hushed tones to avoid waking her. 
RAQUEL Don't you dare go in. Truman.  I just got her off to sleep. 
TRUMAN It was Dad. I swear. 
Raquel fixes Truman with a contemptuous stare. 
RAQUEL Well, the next time he shows up. bring him over.  Until then, I'm not saying a word about this to Mom and neither are you. 
TRUMAN If it wasn't him, it was his twin.  Can you think of a reason he'd want to hide from us? 
RACQUEL I know a reason he'd want to hide from you. Look at how you treat us.  You live ten minutes away, we hardly see you from year to year and then you turn up with this story so insane you don't even believe it yourself.  Haven't you hurt her enough, Truman?  She already blames you. 
EXT.  CAR WASH.  DUSK. 
TRUMAN ruefully examines the broken car aerial on his freshly washed Oldsmobile.  In the background is the warning sign he has just ignored, "CLOSE WINDOWS, LOWER AERIALS". 
Truman removes the metal coathanger from beneath the lavender cardigan and forces the bent wire into what's left of the severed aerial. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DUSK. 
TRUMAN motors down a busy shopping street, crowded on both sides with PEDESTRIANS.  As he drives, he tests his car radio. Adjusting the tuner knob, he finds a station. 
FEMALE VOICE (from radio) ...west on Atlantic...he's making a right on Woodhaven... 
Truman glances up at the street signs along his route and finds that they coincide exactly with the streets quoted on the radio. Distracted, he almost bowls over an OLD LADY on a crosswalk. 
MALE VOICE (from radio) ...God, Truman almost hit Marilyn!...he's on the move again, passing the Burger King... 
Truman readjusts the radio as it starts to fade out. Suddenly there is a piercing blast of feedback.  He looks up and, as far as the eye can see, every PEDESTRIAN, MOTORIST and SHOPKEEPER along the street suddenly winces in pain and holds their right ear at exactly the same moment. 
MALE VOICE (from radio, in distress himself) ...something's wrong.  Change frequencies... 
Truman tries to pick up the channel once again but without success. 
EXT.  DRUG STORE.  DUSK. 
Still shaken by his experience with the radio, TRUMAN exits a Drug Store with a small, brown paper bag.  Out of the corner of his eye he catches a MALE BYSTANDER still checking his right ear with his finger.  He goes to say something to the by-stander but thinks better of it. 
EXT.  REDLIGHT DISTRICT, QUEENS.  NIGHT. 
HOOKERS in white heels and spray-on skirts display their wares. TRUMAN cruises slowly past in his Oldsmobile, the expression of the prostitutes turning from seductive to contemptuous as each is by-passed. 
Suddenly Truman pulls sharply into the curb beside a leggy, prostitute, VERONICA, wearing a platinum blonde wig.  She is in deep discussion with a fellow WORKING GIRL.  Veronica recognizes the car and instantly bends down to the open passenger window. 
VERONICA Hey, Truman!  Where you bin?  You bin cheatin' on me? 
Veronica opens the door and folds herself into the passenger seat. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  NIGHT. 
VERONICA knows the form.  As TRUMAN pulls away from the curb, she is already removing the lavender cardigan from the drycleaning bag on the back seat.  She drapes the cardigan around her shoulders. VERONICA Bout time you got this thing cleaned. (half-joking) Don't tell me you bin makin' your old lady wear it. 
Truman passes her the brown paper bag without reply.  Veronica removes a bottle of perfume and proceeds to liberally apply it. 
VERONICA (examining the bottle) God, do they still make this stuff? What's the Sell-By Date? 
INT.  FLUSHING MEADOW PARK.  NIGHT. 
From a vantage point in a disused tower high above the park. CHRISTOF and CHLOE watch as Truman's Oldsmobile enters the park grounds and comes to a stop near the large metal framed globe, the Unisphere.  Both Christof and Chloe wear earpieces, a miniature television propped at their feet shows a close-up picture of TRUMAN and VERONICA inside the car. 
CHLOE (into a flip-phone, condescending) ...you see him messing with the antenna...what did you think would happen?..."lapse of concentration", is that what you call it? I call it amateur-hour... (sarcastic) In case you hadn't noticed, we don't get to do it over. 
Christof, totally unfazed, regards his zealous young assistant with affection and even a mild amusement. 
CHLOE (as she hangs up, querying the smile that plays around his lips) You think this is funny? 
CHRISTOF The mask has slipped before.  Everything can be explained. 
TRUMAN kills the lights and he and VERONICA exit the car unaware that they are being observed. 
CHRISTOF (adopting a more serious tone as he returns his attention to Truman) What's dangerous is that he makes the connection between what happened today and the girl. 
We focus on Truman and Veronica as they take a seat at the edge of the pool surrounding the great steel globe. 
VERONICA Like I say, I don't normally do this. I gotta charge extra. 
Truman nods his agreement and forks over several bills. Veronica deposits the money in her purse and perches herself as modestly as possible on the edge of the fountain. 
When she is ready, Truman tenderly places his arm around her shoulder.  Veronica responds, hesitantly, becoming immersed in her role.  She reaches out her own hand and rests it on the nape of his neck.  Slowly both heads drift together, but stop just short of their lips meeting, agonizingly close.  So close they can feel each other's breath, barely a sliver of daylight separating them.  Then finally their lips touch in the most gentle of caresses. 
They hold the kiss for another long moment and then simultaneously break.  As they look into each other's eyes, Truman goes to say something but Veronica hushes him by placing a finger to his lips.  Then abruptly she moves out of frame, the cardigan falling from around her shoulders in her haste. 
From Truman's POV we focus on the cardigan on the pavement, triggering a flashback in his head. 
INT.  HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR.  DAY, SEVENTEEN YEARS EARLIER. 
As with Truman's previous flashbacks, this scene appears to be playing on a television screen.  However, on this occasion it is also accompanied by CHRISTOF's comments from his perch in the tower above the park. 
Lauren wrings out her dress. 
LAUREN (to the sky, upset) Get me out of here.  I don't want to be here. 
Lauren starts walking away. 
TRUMAN (confused, calling after her) What are you talking about?  Lauren!  Lauren! 
Truman runs after Lauren and holds her by the arms, forcing her to face him. 
LAUREN (distraught) My name's not Lauren!  It's Sylvia! 
Truman looks into her eyes and believes her. 
THE PICTURE FAST-FORWARDS AGAIN AT HIGH SPEED FOR A MOMENT AND RETURNS TO NORMAL. 
TRUMAN and SYLVIA (as she is now called throughout the remainder of the movie) sit on the ledge of the pool - the same spot as Truman and the hooker, Veronica, seventeen years later.  As we have just seen imitated, Sylvia and Truman kiss with great delicacy.  Truman goes to say something but she covers his lips with her finger. 
SYLVIA In a minute someone's going to come and stop me talking to you. 
TRUMAN (looking around the deserted park) Who?  There's no one around. 
SYLVIA (covering his lips once again) You remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like Magellan.  And your teacher, Sister Olivia said, "You're too late, Truman.  There's nothing left to explore."  And all the other kids laughed. And you sat down. 
TRUMAN (incredulous) How do you know about that? 
SYLVIA It doesn't matter.  You've forgotten about that boy, Truman.  You got scared.  Just because something happens, doesn't mean you can't take another chance in your life. 
TRUMAN I don't understand. 
SYLVIA (looking over her shoulder nervously) There isn't much time.  Just listen. Everybody's pretending Truman.  Everybody but you. (pointing to the buildings on the horizon) Look at that project.  You think anybody lives there?  It's all for you, Truman. A show.  The eyes are everywhere. 
TRUMAN (protesting) Eyes?  Where? 
SYLVIA (frustrated, raving) Everywhere, disguised...Truman, they're going to fill your head with lies. You've got to make yourself deaf, you understand?  When you're afraid the most, it means you're on the right track.  Trust that boy.  Promise me you'll do that? 
Truman nods, unsure of the commitment he is making. 
Suddenly a 1962 Plymouth roars towards the fountain out of nowhere. 
SYLVIA (scared) I told you, Truman! 
The car skids to a stop and a large MAN, 40ish, with a shock of dark hair jumps from the car.  The man yanks the frightened Sylvia to her feet causing her cardigan to fall to the ground. 
TRUMAN (shocked) Hey! 
MAN (to Sylvia) Get in the car, Lauren! 
Truman jumps up. 
TRUMAN (to the Man) Who are you?! 
MAN I'm her father! 
SYLVIA No he's not!  He's just saying that! Does he look anything like me?! 
TRUMAN Shut your mouth! 
The man backhands Sylvia roughly across the face and bundles her into his car.  Truman rushes at the man. 
TRUMAN Leave her alone! 
The man easily fends Truman off, knocking him to the ground. He slams shut the passenger door of the Plymouth. 
MAN (to Sylvia) I told you not to come here anymore! (to Truman, who is getting to his feet) Which one are you? 
Truman is suddenly struck dumb, the doubts start crowding back into his head. 
SYLVIA (calling out from the car) Don't listen to him, Truman.  Make yourself deaf.  Come find me. 
MAN (to Truman, getting into the car) Don't bother!  We're moving to Australia. New York's done something to her head. 
The Plymouth roars away.  Truman stares after it and then turns back to the cardigan left on the ground. 
CHRISTOF (V.O.) Why did he say Australia?  Why couldn't he have said New Jersey? 
EXT.  TIMES SQUARE.  DAY. 
TRUMAN stands amidst a throng of TOURISTS and COMMUTERS marooned on Times Square.  Mesmerized by the two fast-moving rivers of vehicles flowing through the intersection. 
Truman stares down at the street, contemplating stepping out into the traffic.  However as his foot is poised, the stream of cars that passed so close by seconds earlier, now appear to be giving him a wider berth.  He steps off the sidewalk and. to an acompaniment of car horns, begins to wander back and forth without fear through the traffic, confident that each vehicle will take evasive action. 
Safely on the other side of the street, he stands in front of the window of an electronics store.  He watches a local TV news show covering the Santa Maria replica moored near Pier 13. 
However Truman is forced to look away when he glimpses his own face on another TV taking a feed from a camcorder aimed out the store window.  He shudders at his video reflection. 
INT.  DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY. 
TRUMAN'S face stares out from a televison monitor.  We slowly pull back to reveal that other smaller monitors surround the first until we find ourselves staring at a video wall in a room the size of a football field. 
The curved bank of monitors, suspended by cables from the ceiling, gives the appearance of a giant patch-work mobile. Investigating the screens we discover surveillance pictures from all over New York City, covering every facet of Truman's life. Camera angles from the interior of Truman's house, his backyard, car, subway station, office, the deli he frequents, the seashore to which he is drawn, the park he visits with Veronica, the abandoned freeway where he golfs with Marlon, many of the locations strangely devoid of people. 
Beneath the video wall is a state-of-the-art mixing desk, its illuminated buttons glowing brightly in the gloom.  Facing the desk, several OPERATORS in high-backed, high-tech swivel chairs, wearing the slimmest of headsets.  SIMEON, a meticulous young man with a penetrating gaze, sits directly in front of the largest of the monitors, co-ordinating camera angles. 
CHRISTOF stands over Simeon's shoulder, staring intently at the live picture of Truman now seated at a streetside cafe, continuing to inspect his surroundings.  CHLOE hovers in the background. 
There is an uncomfortable silence in the control room as the production crew feel themselves under scrutiny for the first time.  Christof leans forward and talks soothingly into a microphone on the control panel. 
CHRISTOF ...Everybody stay focused...remember who you are... 
EXT.  STREETSIDE CAFE, LITTLE ITALY.  DAY. 
TRUMAN sits alone at the table, still looking for a false move. 
A DELIVERY MAN unloads boxes from the back of his truck and carries them into a Restaurant Supply store.  Further down the street CONSTRUCTION WORKERS take their time tending to an electrical repair in an exposed manhole.  A POSTAL WORKER does his rounds.  An OLD WOMAN struggles with two heavy shopping bags.  Everybody appears natural, places to go. 
Truman turns his attention to a group of ITALIAN-LOOKING MEN at the only other occupied table at the cafe.  We see extreme close-ups as Truman scans the men's faces for any sign of phoniness.  They are talking loudly, making suggestive comments to the WAITRESS and generally showing off like schoolboys. Their behavior passes the test, all seems genuine. 
Truman idly regards his three-stone wedding ring with which he has been fidgeting. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
The on-air monitor shows TRUMAN from the ring's POV, revealing that the small center diamond contains a miniature, hidden camera.  Truman suspects nothing. 
He looks up to find two well-to-do 3OGGERS, out for a lunchtime run, making their way down the street towards the cafe.  Truman happens to glance at the sneakers of one of the joggers.  He springs to his feet and blocks the joggers' path. 
CHRISTOF (staring at the monitor) Damn! 
Unseen by Christof, his Assistant Director, Simeon takes a moment of pleasure from the older man's distress. 
EXT.  STREETSIDE CAFE, LITTLE ITALY.  DAY. 
TRUMAN (to the jogger with the familiar sneakers) Small world. 
JOGGER 1 (attempting to sidestep Truman) Excuse me. 
Truman blocks the man a second time. 
TRUMAN You don't remember?  Two days ago I gave you my meatball sandwich in the park.  You were in a wheelchair.  Same sneakers. 
An almost subliminal flashback appears in Truman's head confirming that the JOGGER and the HOMELESS MAN in the wheelchair two days earlier are one and the same. 
TRUMAN (commenting ironically on his new-found mobility) A miracle! 
JOGGER 2 (coming to his companion's aid) Get the hell outta here. 
The second jogger pushes Truman back against the cafe table causing him to stumble. 
EXT.  WAREHOUSE - MARLON'S WORK.  DAY. 
MARLON is loading boxes of candy into the back of his van. TRUMAN hurries up to him. 
TRUMAN Marlon. I've gotta talk to you. 
MARLON (surprised) Truman!  Sorry, I'm up against it today. 
TRUMAN I've fallen over something, Marlon. Something to do with my Dad. I think. 
MARLON (looking at him for the first time) Are you okay? You look like shit. 
TRUMAN (ignoring the inquiries about his health) It's big, Marlon.  You wouldn't believe who's in on it. 
TRUMAN sits on the clifftop, staring out at the view his father had been so desperate for him not to see twenty-seven years earlier.  However the deserted bay beyond is exactly as his father described - almost identical to its neighbor.  MARLON, laboring, crests the rise and joins his friend on the clifftop. 
MARLON What're we doing here, Truman? 
TRUMAN This is where it started. 
MARLON Where what started? 
TRUMAN Things.  Things that don't fit.  Loose threads. False steps.  Slips of the tongue. 
MARLON (irritated) Make sense, Truman.  You going religious on me? 
TRUMAN (tears of bitterness welling in his eyes) My father didn't want me to see what was over here. Whatever it was, it's gone now.  I never shoulda listened to him that day.  I knew it was wrong. 
We see a quick flashback of SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN on the cliff- face twenty-seven years earlier. 
TRUMAN There were a hundred people on the beach that day.  Everybody knew what was going on except me. 
MARLON I don't want to put you down but why would anybody go to all this trouble over you? 
TRUMAN Maybe I've been mistaken for somebody else. (a memory triggered) A couple of years ago, I tried to get hold of a copy of Time Magazine.  The week before an ad said, "Next Week:  Truman Burbank and the Lost Generation". 
Marlon shrugs, unimpressed. 
TRUMAN A guy with the same name as me in Time Magazine.  It ain't a common name so I looked out for it.  But the day it came out, every newstand was sold out.  No library had it.  I even wrote off for a back-issue.  Never seen a copy to this day. 
Marlon remains unconvinced. 
TRUMAN Maybe I'm being set up for something.  You ever feel like that, Marlon?  Like your whole life has been building to something? 
Marlon looks skeptically at Truman.  He hasn't had that feeling. 
MARLON (becoming testy) A coincidence.  Haven't you ever heard of a coincidence? 
TRUMAN I'm a walking coincidence.  I can't count 'em. No something's happening, Marlon.  I've got to get to the bottom of it. 
MARLON (shaking his head in exasperation) Of what?!  Why're you doing this to yourself? 
TRUMAN I'm scared, Marlon.  I'm as scared as hell. But I've never felt more alive.  It's just like she said. 
MARLON (suddenly intrigued) Who? 
TRUMAN It doesn't matter.  She was too beautiful for here. 
Now Marlon is really confused. 
TRUMAN Can you lend me some money?  A hundred bucks. 
MARLON All I got on me is the takings from the machines. Why do you need it? 
TRUMAN I'm going away for a while. 
INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DUSK. 
The comfortably furnished room of a writer.  Walls lined with books.  Desk overlooking the sea, strewn with notes, photos and other reference material.  Sylvia's name on the spine of several published volumes.  Pages of unfinished manuscript, handwritten in blue ink. 
SYLVIA stands at a bookcase, looking for inspiration.  As she pulls out a book, a magazine falls to the floor.  Truman's missing copy of Time Magazine.  His face on the cover with the headline,  "Truman Burbank and the Lost Generation". 
Sylvia retrieves the magazine.  In front of a nearby mirror, she holds Truman's photographed face next to her own, for a moment imagining them together.  Then, catching herself, she quickly lowers the magazine, left alone with her own reflection. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
We see TRUMAN's disturbed face reflected in the screen of his television set, montaged over that of ROBIN LEACH, host of "Lifestyles Of The Rich And Famous".  MERYL, wearing her robe, head against Truman's chest, sips from a bottle of beer. 
MERYL (attempting to open him up) What's going on, Truman?  You're not yourself. 
TRUMAN (vague) Maybe you just don't know me very well. 
INT.  DINING ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT. 
CHRISTOF eats a sumptuous meal in an ornate private dining room with an elegant WOMAN, thirty years his junior.  Playing silently on a monitor on an antique side table is a surveillance shot of TRUMAN and MERYL slumped in front of their television. 
CHLOE, enters the room and nods an apology to Christof's dinner companion - a woman her own age.  Christof's companion shrugs resignedly.  Christof registers Chloe's thinly disguised resentment, enjoying the rivalry. 
Chloe inserts a cassette tape into a nearby VCR.  Christof wipes his mouth with his napkin and picks up his wine glass as he gives the television his full attention.  A commercial for "GLOBAL TRAVEL" begins to play. 
TRUMAN Sorry, Sydney.  Sydney, Australia.  That's right. 
AGENT (entering the destination in her computer) For how many? 
TRUMAN (finding the question suspicious) One. 
AGENT When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, that you do lose a day on the way there? 
TRUMAN (more urgent than he intended) Today. 
AGENT (reading off her computer screen) I'm sorry.  I don't have anything for a week. 
TRUMAN (suspicious) A week. 
AGENT (patiently explaining) It's the busy season. 
TRUMAN (paranoia showing) You sure you're not trying to keep me here? You are a travel agent, aren't you?  Your job is to help people travel, not keep 'em where they are. (pointing to the agent's name tag, "DORIS - Travel Agent") Or maybe you're a different kind of agent, Doris? 
AGENT (showing amazing restraint) I do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for Australia tomorrow.  But you wouldn't want to do that. 
TRUMAN Why wouldn't I? 
AGENT I thought you were in a hurry. 
TRUMAN (calming down) That's right. 
AGENT You want to book the flight? 
Truman pulls out a wad of money from his pocket and several rolls of quarters from Marlon's vending machines.  The agent looks askance at the pile of cash. 
TRUMAN You were expecting me, weren't you? 
The travel agent ignores the question and prints the ticket. 
AGENT It's non-refundable. 
EXT.  SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.  DAY. 
CHRISTOF stands with a PRODUCTION MANAGER, mid-thirties, on the forecourt of the Sydney Opera House, its sail-like roofs soaring above them.  Framing the background, the coathanger-shaped Sydney Harbor Bridge. 
PROD. MANAGER (unable to conceal his pride) Happy? 
Christof gives a grudgingly complimentary nod. 
CHRISTOF (staring out at the pleasure craft littering the harbor) Can we contain him long enough? 
PROD. MANAGER I think so. 
Christof looks skyward at the cottonwool clouds above the harbor. 
PROD. MANAGER (anticipating his next question) He flies at night.  Thick cloud cover to disorient him.  Hopefully we'll knock him out with complimentary cocktails, pull the shades down during the movies.  He'll never know. 
Christof gives another grudging nod of approval.  The Production Manager is beckoned by a group of CONSTRUCTION WORKERS who are putting the finishing touches to a corner of the Opera House. CHLOE drifts to Christof's side, a Watchman TV in her hand. 
CHLOE (referring to the surrounding scene) Why go to all the trouble? 
Christof glances at the TV screen in her hand, showing TRUMAN sitting in his office gazing at his composite picture of SYLVIA. 
CHRISTOF He believes she has the answer. 
CHLOE Why not just tell him she's dead? 
CHRISTOF It's too late for that.  That won't satisfy him.  He's going to have to find out for himself. See it with his own eyes.  Right now he needs something genuine. (rueful, all too aware of the contradiction) Even if we have to fake it. 
INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY.  DAY. 
Close up on typewriting appearing on a page. 
"Please accept my resignation from American Life & Accident, Inc. to take effect immediately. 
Yours tru" 
TRUMAN gets up from the typewriter in mid-word and strolls to a fellow AGENT's desk. 
TRUMAN (to agent, picking up a dictionary) "Yours truly..."  You spell "truly" "l...y" or "e...l...y"? 
Truman floors the Oldsmobile.  The car flies past the exit for Route 276.  He continues along the Jersey Turnpike. 
MERYL Truman, that was the turnoff! 
TRUMAN I've changed my mind again.  What's Maine like this time of year?! I've never been to Maine. (Truman looks up through the windshield at a helicopter tracking his progress) Or let's just see where the road takes us. 
MERYL (pleading) Let me out, Truman.  You're not right in the head. You wanna destroy yourself, you do it on your own! 
TRUMAN (eerily calm) I think I'd like a little company. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK. 
CHRISTOF, CHLOE, SIMEON and the other OPERATORS follow Truman's progress from a helicopter shot - the Oldsmobile optically circled to ease identification.  Christof jabs his finger at the rapidly thinning traffic surrounding Truman's vehicle. 
CHRISTOF (to Simeon) What the hell is wrong with the "carousel"? Keep them together. 
SIMEON (agitated) They're rusty.  We can't keep up. (rueful aside) We don't know where he's going any more. 
CHLOE Oncoming is very thin. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DUSK. 
As he speeds erratically, TRUMAN glances at the streets either side of the freeway, where he discovers a distinct lack of moving traffic. 
TRUMAN (to the anxious Meryl at his side) Look down there, Meryl!...No cars!  I don't run into traffic.  The traffic follows me around. (excited by his discovery) We're in a moving pack, don't you see? 
Truman abruptly exits the rapidly emptying freeway. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK. 
CHRISTOF (enthusing) He's so close!  It's tantilizing! 
CHLOE You want to pull him over? 
CHRISTOF No police.  Not yet.  We shadow him. We don't want him to panic. 
CHLOE He's trying to outrun the traffic. 
CHRISTOF He's trying to outrun the world.  Keep him on this route. (to Simeon who is consulting someone on his headset) Are we ready? 
Simeon nods.  Executives, MOSES and ROMAN have entered the control room.  They hover nervously in the background. 
INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR, WESTCHESTER.  DUSK. 
TRUMAN is forced to slow once again behind a line of other cars at a police roadblock.  At the head of the line, the cars are being turned around by POLICE OFFICERS, who are also contending with a swarm of NEWS REPORTERS and TELEVISION CREWS. 
TRUMAN (to Meryl) It's hard to go places, isn't it? 
MERYL There's been an accident, Truman.  We have to go back. 
TRUMAN No.  There's no accident.  It'S just more stalling. 
Truman slows beside a POLICE OFFICER. 
TRUMAN What's going on? 
OFFICER (grim-faced, indicating the nearby Indian Point nuclear power plant) Leak at the plant.  They had to shut her down. 
TRUMAN Is there any way around? 
OFFICER The whole area's being evacuated.  A precaution. 
Truman falls in line behind the cars making a U-turn when, all of a sudden, he guns his car and swerves past the barricade. 
EXT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DUSK. 
In the twilight sun, SYLVIA'S GUESTS wander up the gravel path, leading away from the beach house, the younger children carried in their parents' arms.  Hanging back from the rest of the group, Sylvia's admirer, wheeling his bicycle, turns back to the house.  As the MAN is about to lean his bicycle against the side of the beach house, he looks in a window. 
Lit by a blue-glow, SYLVIA sits transfixed by the television playing in her antique bureau, the screen obscured from our view.  She is unaware of the man's face at the window. 
Recognizing what is playing on the screen, the man regards Sylvia with a resigned smile.  He mounts the bicycle and rides back up the path. 
EXT.  NUCLEAR POWER PLANT.  DUSK. 
Truman's car slides to a stop, blocked by Hazardous Waste vehicles straddling the roadway leading up to the power plant, the pursuing police car blocking his retreat.  TRUMAN flees the car, leaving MERYL in the passenger seat. 
TRUMAN (distraught, referring to the bed) How could you buy this damn thing when you know he drowned in front of me?! 
Truman raises the kitchen knife but instead of stabbing Meryl begins to slash viciously at the waterbed, opening a large gash. 
TRUMAN You have any idea what it's like to drown? 
Truman drops the knife and forces Meryl's head into the gaping hole in the bed, submerging her head in the tepid water.  She thrashes her arms wildly trying to free herself. 
Truman reluctantly jerks her head back out of the water. 
MERYL (gasping for air) Truman, stop it! (to the ceiling) Don't let him do it! 
TRUMAN (to a light fixture, threatening) I'll kill her! 
He dunks her head into the water a second time, holding her head down longer this time.  She continues to struggle. 
Suddenly, the front door chimes.  Startled, Truman lets Meryl up for air. 
TRUMAN (sneering at Meryl) Right on time.  Cops must be telepathic. 
Meryl spots the kitchen knife within her reach but Truman beats her to it.  Grabbing the knife by the blade, he slices his hand. 
TRUMAN (wincing in pain) Damn! 
At knifepoint, Truman marches Meryl down the hallway to the front door.  The doorbell chimes a second and third time, more insistently. 
TRUMAN (shouting through the closed door) Stay where you are or I'll kill her! 
MARLON (O.C.) Truman?  It's me, Marlon. 
Truman flinches.  He was so convinced it would be the police. He takes a step back against the hallway wall.  Before he can decide what to do, Marlon has opened the unlocked front door to be confronted with the sight of Truman holding the knife to Meryl's throat, blood streaming from his own wound. 
Marlon locks eyes on Truman.  Sizing up the situation, he slowly but decisively removes the knife from Truman's hand.  Meryl wrenches herself free from Truman's now limp grasp, and collapses into Marlon's arms, sobbing. 
MERYL (distraught, dropping character, forgetting herself) They were going to let him kill me! 
EXT.  ABANDONED FREEWAY.  NIGHT. 
MARLON and TRUMAN, both nursing bottles of beer, sit on the end of their abandoned freeway off-ramp. 
TRUMAN People know who I am, my every move, complete strangers know my name.  Even when there's no one around, I feel the eyes on me. 
MARLON (reluctant admission) I was in the bank today.  The Federal on Lewis.  A clerk was talking about somebody named Truman messing with her baby.  Is that the stranger you're talking about? 
Truman closes his eyes as he takes in the explanation. 
TRUMAN (half to himself, refusing to accept it) No.  No.  I've never seen her before. (registering Marlon's skepticism) I know you already think I'm going out of my mind but I genuinely believe the world revolves around me somehow.  Everybody seems to be in on it. 
MARLON It's a lot of world for one man.  You sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing you'd made something more of yourself?  Christ, Truman, who hasn't sat on the John and had an imaginary interview with Barbara Walters? Who hasn't wanted to be somebody? 
TRUMAN That's just it.  I think I am somebody. 
MARLON (sympathetizing) I used to dream all my friends and family got together in a hotel room, thinking of ways to fuck me up. 
TRUMAN Sometimes I think it's in my head, sometimes I think it's for real. 
Marlon looks around as if drawing inspiration from somewhere in the night. 
MARLON Tru, we've known each other since before we could get a hard-on. 
Truman half-smiles at the ribald remark. 
MARLON The only way we ever made it through high school was cheating off each other's test papers.  Jesus, they were identical. I always liked that, because whatever the answer was, we was right together and we was wrong together. 
Truman nods fondly at the memory. 
MARLON The only night either of us ever spent in jail, we spent together and I wet myself but you never told anyone. I was best man at your wedding and my brother was best man at my wedding and you didn't talk to me for a month over that and I didn't blame you because you've been more of a brother to me than he's ever been.  And I never shoulda let my Goddam father talk me into that. 
Truman is slowly coming around.  Marlon's speech from the heart soothing away his pain. 
MARLON I know things haven't worked out for either of us like we used to sit up on Freemont Street all night and dream they would.  We all let opportunities pass us by, none of us asks for the dance as often as we should.  I know that feeling when it's like everything's slipping away and you don't want to believe it so you look for answers someplace else.  But, well, the point is, I would gladly step in front of traffic for you. 
Truman grins a melancholy grin, nearly all the way back.  We see a close up of Marlon's ear.  From inside, unheard by Truman, CHRISTOF dictates Marlon's heartfelt speech. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT. 
INTERVIEWER You're on, caller.  Go ahead. 
MALE CALLER 1 Christof, it's a great honor to speak with you. 
CHRISTOF Thank you. 
MALE CALLER 1 Truman has never been closer.  The way he looked directly at us, spoke to us for the first time. Do you think he'll ever work it out? 
CHRISTOF I don't believe so.  Not now.  He tested his world, as we all do at certain times, and eventually it passed the test.  You have to understand, he is a man made-for-TV, the world he occupies his only frame of reference. No, for him to come even this close to the truth is a remarkable testament to his instincts. 
The Interviewer presses another line on his terminal. 
INTERVIEWER Sacramento, California, you're on "Tru Talk". 
MALE CALLER 2 (O.C.) How much of a strain has the last few days placed on the actors? 
CHRISTOF Working on "Truman" has always been a huge commitment for an actor, not just in terms of separation from friends and family, but since Truman essentially drives the plot, it's a never-ending improvisation.  Recent events have raised the pressure but also the prestige. 
INTERVIEWER (cutting off the call) Of course Truman has always been very much in on casting. 
CHRISTOF As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family.  Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit player. 
INTERVIEWER (pressing another line) Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof. 
MALE CALLER 3 (O.C.) Christof.  I've admired your work my whole life, although I can't say I've seen it all. 
CHRISTOF Who can? 
MALE CALLER 3 Can you settle an argument for me?  What's the longest time Truman has been off-camera? 
CHRISTOF (trace of pride) In his entire life, forty-two minutes.  A technical fault in 1978 accounts for most of that time.  The remainder generally results from blindspots, in the early days, when Truman would stray out of range of our cameras. 
INTERVIEWER The Hague for Christof...The Hague?...lost them. (pressing another line) Amagansett, Long Island, you're on "Tru Talk". 
FEMALE CALLER 1 (O.C.) How can you say Truman lives a life like any other? 
CHRISTOF (sensing the thinly disguised resentinent in the caller's voice) I believe that to be so.  I often feel the only difference between Truman's life and our own is that his is being more thoroughly documented. We all play our allotted roles-- 
FEMALE CALLER 1 (O.C.) --He's not a performer.  He's a prisoner. 
The Interviewer goes to cut off the call but Christof holds him back. 
CHRISTOF (rising to the challenge) --He can leave at any time.  If his was more than just a vague ambition, if he were absolutely determined to discover the truth, there's no way we could prevent him.  I think what really distresses you, caller, is that ultimately he prefers the comfort of his "cell"-- 
FEMALE CALLER 1 (as if trying to convince herself. giving herself away) --No, you're wrong!  He'll prove you wrong! He can still do it! 
CHRISTOF (a thought occurring, looking directly into camera) Do I know you, caller?  Your voice sounds familiar. 
INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
SYLVIA, finger on the button of the phone where she has cut off the call, stares at CHRISTOF on her television screen. 
It is she who is the Female Caller.  Christof seems to stare back at her as the talk show continues. 
INTERVIEWER (from television) Recording a human life from birth to death, that's still the intention?  You still believe Truman has more to contribute? 
CHRISTOF (still reflecting on the last call) More than ever.  By unwittingly allowing us to witness his struggles, he's constantly forcing us to evaluate our own lives.  He gives us hope. 
INTERVIEWER Let's take another call. (pressing a line) London, England you're on "Tru Talk". 
FEMALE CALLER 2 By definition Truman has to be free of censorship, but has the recent violence and profanity caused a problem for the sponsors...? 
Sylvia shuts out the conversation on the television, focusing on the window that displays TRUMAN, still buried in his book. 
She comes close to the screen, catching his melancholy.  She has a camera and a white envelope in her hand.  With a look of resolve, she takes her fountain pen and writes Truman's name on the envelope in her familiar blue ink. 
INT.  MASTER TAPE ROOM.  NIGHT. 
Row upon row of digital video cassettes occupy one entire, cavernous room - "Truman" and a date on the spine of each cassette.  Suspended from the ceiling, a monitor shows a live picture of TRUMAN sleeping on the sofa. 
Sitting in front of a playback monitor, CHLOE is transfixed by Truman thirty-four years earlier, a FETUS in his mother's womb. 
CHRISTOF (O.C.) What are you looking for? 
Chloe tries to conceal her startlement at CHRISTOF's unexpected entrance. 
SIMEON (shrugs) That loser pays our salary. 
OPERATOR He's given up on himself again. 
SIMEON Who cares?  Makes life easier for us. He is what he is. 
At the far end of the great room, one of the large double doors opens and CHRISTOF enters, as always accompanied by CHLOE, carrying a leather-bound folder.  Simeon and the Operators subtely straighten in their chairs.  Christof pretends not to notice.  He is staring intently at the On-Air monitor. 
CHRISTOF When did he start sleeping like that? 
SIMEON About the time Meryl left. 
CHRISTOF Is that the best shot we can get? 
SIMEON What's to see? 
Christof watches Truman, a trace of concern in his eyes. 
CHRISTOF (referring to the debris in Truman's bedroom) What happened to the room? 
SIMEON He started to reorganize.  I was going to call you.  But half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep. 
Apparently satisfied, Christof turns to an operator. 
CHRISTOF I want to check the set-ups for tomorrow's insurance convention. 
Reading off the notes in Chloe's folder, the operator punches up a batch of camera angles on smaller preview monitors.  They show a generic-looking Marriott Hotel, devoid of actors.  A banner in reception reads, "WELCOME AMERICAN LIFE & ACCIDENT". The Operator looks to Christof for approval and realizes his producer's attention has wandered.  Christof is staring at the sleeping figure of Truman on the On-Air monitor. 
CHRISTOF Give me a shot from his wedding band. 
SIMEON (pointing out the ring on Truman's bedside table) He took it off. 
CHRISTOF (a trace of concern) Why is he so still?  He's too still. 
Christof picks up a spare headset from the panel and puts it to his ear. 
CHRISTOF Isolate the audio in the cans and amplify. 
An operator pushes up an audio fader on the panel.  Christof and his colleagues listen to Truman's steady breathing in their headphones.  Simeon and the Operators nod, reassured that nothing is amiss.  Christof is not so easily convinced. 
CHRISTOF Give me a preview.  An ECU on his torso. 
A camera hidden in the room's bedside lamp zooms in to Truman's prone outline...while the breathing remains steady, the body does not rise and fall. 
CHRISTOF (anxious, barking a command to Chloe) Phone him. 
Chloe picks up a phone connected to the desk and dials. 
CHRI STOF (anticipating Chloe's question) Wrong number. 
The phone on the bedside table, inches from Truman's head, begins to ring.  Truman doesn't flinch. 
INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  NIGHT. 
SYLVIA walks up from the seashore where she has been taking a late night swim.  Hearing the telephone ringing; she rushes to pick it up.  However, after lifting the receiver, the phone continues to ring. 
The sound is coming from her television, left on in the bureau. On the screen, TRUMAN sleeps, seemingly undisturbed by the call. Sylvia, drying herself, watches with fascination. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT. 
CHRISTOF and the CREW are now highly agitated. 
CHRISTOF (a trace of panic) He didn't drink tonight?  No pills? 
Every question receives a shake of the Assistant's head in reply. 
CHRISTOF Hang up! 
Chloe promptly cuts the connection and Truman's phone ceases to ring. 
CHRISTOF Get Marlon over there. 
CHLOE Under what pretext? 
CHRISTOF (letting his anxiety show) Any fucking pretext! 
EXT.  VACANT LOT.  DAY. 
TRUMAN rolls in the dirt of a construction site, tearing at his clothes and caking his face and hair with black inud. 
He struggles up a slope onto an adjacent roadway where a shopping cart awaits, loaded with soiled plastic bags. Looking every inch a derelict, Truman begins to wheel his shopping cart through the empty streets of Brooklyn. 
EXT.  BROOKLYN BRIDGE.  DAY. 
TRUMAN wheels his shopping cart over a deserted Brooklyn Bridge. Over his shoulder, in the far distance, we see a lone car approaching.  As it nears, we recognize a police car. 
Truman takes a look under the bridge, as if participating in the search.  The car slowly draws alongside, the POLICE OFFICER looking straight into Truman's blackened face. 
POLICE OFFICER Any sign of him? 
TRUMAN (deliberately gravelling his voice) Not yet. 
The Police Officer takes a second look at Truman.  After what seems like an eternity, he motions his PARTNER to drive on. 
POLICE OFFICER (to Truman, as the car pulls away) Take it easy. 
EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN.  DAY. 
We pan down one concrete canyon after another.  The usually bustling financial district is totally, eerily deserted. 
Suddenly we see a line of PEOPLE fanned out across a street. Then another and another. 
PEOPLE of every description, shoulder to shoulder, marching down the otherwise empty streets the way a search is conducted at a crime scene.  The lines include PRINCIPALS and EXTRAS linked arm in arm, wardrobed for their usual roles as EXECUTIVES and SECRETARIES, STORE CLERKS, TELEPHONISTS, MAINTENANCE and CONSTRUCTION WORKERS, WAITERS and WAITRESSES, COOKS, SHOPPERS, HEALTH WORKERS, SECURITY GUARDS, POSTAL WORKERS, POLICE OFFICERS, FIRE FIGHTERS AND HOMELESS PEOPLE.  On one occasion we glimpse Truman's colleagues, LAWRENCE, ERROL and VIVIEN, amongst the searchers. 
A building-to-building, floor-to-floor, office-to-office search is also being conducted, each structure secured as they go, the searchers paying special attention to potential blind spots such as closets, dumpsters, man holes, sewers, car trunks, trees and shrubbery. 
We focus on one of the waves of searchers.  TRUMAN has linked arms in the middle of a row, his disguise still holding up. 
A swarm of helicopters fills the sky. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
While his COLLEAGUES monitor the bank of screens, CHRISTOF has been joined by the two ever-anxious studio executives, MOSES and ROMAN. 
MOSES (to Christof who is still studying the faces in a row of SEARCHERS) Rumors are circulating he's dead. 
ROMAN (pacing nervously) The sponsors are threatening to rip up their contracts. 
CHRISTOF (unconcerned, referring to the static "STAND BY" graphic, now accompanied by soothing classical music) Why?  We're getting higher ratings for that graphic than any time in the series. 
INT.  BARROOM.  DAY. 
The television behind the bar carries the still graphic. BAR PATRONS animatedly discuss Truman's fate over their drinks. Some place bets with each other over the outcome. 
EXT.  ELECTRONICS STORE.  DAY. 
A crowd of PASSERS-BY hover around a display of televisions in the window of an electronics store, awaiting developments. 
INT.  LIVING ROOM.  DAY. 
The two OLD WOMEN we have seen before stare intently at the graphic on their televisions. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
The fan of EXTRAS reaches the harbor and automatically turns to make another sweep. 
CHLOE (referring to the empty streets) When we flush him out how do we explain this? 
CHRISTOF (deadpan) We tell him the truth. 
Chloe looks askance at Christof. 
CHRISTOF (joking darkly) We're making a movie. 
SIMEON (hopeful) We'll get him on this next sweep. 
CHRISTOF What have we missed? 
SIMEON It's just a matter of time. 
CHRISTOF No.  We've missed something. 
EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY. 
TRUMAN hears a helicopter overhead.  By now the ocean spray has washed most of the dirt from his face, only a residue remains. The rags he wears, including Sylvia's sweater under his open coat, are soaked.  Her picture clings stubbornly to the compass. 
As he steers, he occasionally refers to a "HOW TO SAIL" book from his coat pocket.  He tacks against the wind, as he watches the military chopper circle his boat. 
CHOPPER PILOT (over P.A.) Alter course immediately.  You are entering a restricted area. 
Truman screams defiantly back to the chopper. 
TRUMAN Fuck you! 
EXT.  A STREET SOMEWHERE.  DAY. 
Two YOUNG MEN on a street corner watch, transfixed, the image of TRUMAN steering the Santa Maria on a portable Watchman TV. 
YOUNG MAN 1 I knew he wasn't dead. 
INT.  HELICOPTER.  DAY. 
The HELICOPTER PILOT continues to circle. 
PILOT (over P.A.) Alter course or we fire on your vessel. 
TRUMAN screams again at the chopper and gestures wildly at the pilot. 
TRUMAN Get the hell away!  It's my life! 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
CHRISTOF (into microphone to pilot, eerily composed) Fire a warning. 
EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY. 
A round of machine gun fire strafes the water across the bows of Truman's boat, several rounds striking the deck.  TRUMAN flinches.  In his eyes we see the ghosts return.  With great effort he shakes the doubts from his head and retrieves a flare gun from the storage cabinet in the boat's wheel house. 
CHOPPER PILOT (over P.A.) Alter course.  Drop your sails. 
Truman takes aim at the chopper and fires the flare gun.  The distress flare hurtles towards the hovering helicopter, narrowly missing.  Truman ejects the spent cartridge and reloads. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
SIMEON (shocked at the near miss) Jesus!  God!  Is he out of his mind? 
CHRISTOF (composed, into microphone to pilot) Pull back. 
EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY. 
Before the chopper can take evasive action TRUMAN takes aim a second time and fires.  The distress flare fishtails into the sky and to Truman's surprise and delight, finds its mark, striking the rear rotor blade.  Truman lets out a whoop. 
The helicopter immediately begins to spiral downwards towards the sea.  The CHOPPER PILOTS bail out of the cockpit, splashing down safely into the coean while the helicopter enters the waves in a spectacular belly flop, sinking out of view in seconds like a stone.  Watching the pilots bobbing around in the ocean in their inflatable life jackets, thoughts of duty invade Truman's head.  He shuts out the thoughts and turns his back, steering away from the drifting pilots.  A look of resolve in his eyes we have never witnessed before. 
INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DAY. 
SYLVIA kneels on the floor in front of the television.  As Christof's cameras dwell on her likeness - the composite picture still covering the ship's compass - she allows herself a brief moment of satisfaction but she does not dare to hope too much. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY. 
CHRISTOF, CHLOE, SIMEON, and the OTHERS have been joined in the control room by MARLON, MERYL, KIRK and AUDREY. 
CHRISTOF How long will another chopper take? 
SIMEON By the time we pick up the pilots, too long. 
CHRISTOF We have to stop him for his own good. Turn him back with the elements. 
SIMEON (hesitant) There's no rescue boat in the area.  He won't know what to do. 
MOSES (trying to appeal to Christof's sense of reason) For God's sake, Chris.  The whole world is watching.  We can't kill him in front of a live audience. 
CHRISTOF He was born in front of a live audience. (never taking his eyes from the screen, reassuring) Don't worry, he's not willing to risk his life for the truth.  His doubts will turn him back. 
Simeon reluctantly turns to a panel of controls on the desk marked "WAVE", "WIND" and "RAIN".  After typing in a command, he winds the controls towards their maximum settings. 
CHRISTOF Kill the lights. 
TRUMAN's cry echos around bars, offices, shops, homes and streets - wherever a television is to be found.  No VIEWER speaks.  They are stunned to silence, many teary eyed. 
EXT.  CYCLORAMA.  DUSK. 
As the boat drifts alongside the seemingly never-ending curve of the cyclorama, TRUMAN's attention is drawn to an outline in the otherwise flawless backdrop.  He clambers to the prow of the boat. 
There, camoflaged in the painted skyscape just above the water line, is a door.  Truman grabs hold of the recessed doorhandle and halts the drifting boat.  He stands in front of the door and closes his eyes in a silent prayer. 
He opens the door in the sky and steps through. 
INT/EXT.  VIEWERS.  DUSK. 
Spontaneous cheers and shouts of joy erupt from VIEWERS in their various locations - bars, homes and offices.  Strangers hug each other and dance in celebration. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK. 
Even the cynical VIDEO OPERATOR jumps out of his seat - for the first time in the film - and lets out a joyous whoop, forgetting himself for a moment, caught up in the drama. 
OPERATOR Yeah! 
Self-conscious, he takes his seat again almost immediately.  His COLLEAGUES are transfixed by the live on-air monitor continuing to play its only available shot, the open door in the sky - Truman out of view. 
INT.  SOUNDSTAGE.  DUSK. 
TRUMAN finds himself on a small metal landing.  A steel ladder rises above him to the height of "sky", the soundstage roof, so high as to be barely visible.  The rungs also continue downward, the depth of the "ocean-bed", to a studio floor far below. 
Truman turns and looks back through the door he has just entered.  Unsecured, the Santa Maria is beginning to drift away. The sea he has feared since childhood, is nothing but an enormous tank.  The sky, a massive cyclorama.  New York City, an elaborate set.  And it is all housed within an impossibly large soundstage. 
Truman makes no effort to save the boat.  He shuts the door to his world.  A sign on the back of the door reads, "CLOSED SET. No Unauthorized Access."  Gradually he becomes aware of another strange phenomenon taking place in the soundstage.  All around him, thousands of light fixtures mounted in the cyclorama to masquerade as stars, are slowly illuminating - switched on by an automatic timer.  (The light fixtures match the one that almost struck Truman's car at the beginning of the film.) 
By artificial starlight, Truman begins his long descent of the step ladder.  Below, a studio tram makes its way along the soundstage perimeter, on the last tour of the day. 
INT.  STUDIO TRAM.  DUSK. 
As he drives, a well-scrubbed, young TOUR GUIDE delivers his tired commentary into a microphone for the thousandth time to the half-full tram of STUDIO VISITORS. 
GUIDE ...the soundstage roof houses over eight hundred thousand lights of varying intensities to faithfully recreate the constellations... 
However, the passengers are paying less attention than usual. They stare, perplexed, at the television monitor above the Guide's head, continuing to play the show's only available shot of the open door in the sky. 
INT.  SOUNDSTAGE.  DUSK. 
TRUMAN suddenly steps in front of the tram.  The TOUR GUIDE stands on the brakes, tram lurching to a stop.  The Guide looks from Truman's haunted face to the monitor, hardly able to believe his eyes. 
Truman leaps on board, pressing his flare gun into the side of the guide's head. 
TRUMAN (to the shocked passengers) Nobody move! (to the guide) Drive! 
The terrified Guide pulls jerkily away in the tram, resuming the tour. 
TRUMAN (to the guide, gesturing to the microphone) Keep talking.  Say whatever you say! 
The Guide hesitantly resumes his commentary into his microphone. 
GUIDE Er,...the ocean tank contains over six hundred and fifty million gallons of man-made salt water, temperature-controlled... 
Truman's attention drifts to the logo on the side of the tram - "TRUMAN STUDIO TOUR".  He is suddenly aware of the tourists gawking at him. 
TRUMAN (to TOURIST, camcorder around his neck) Act normal!  Keep filming! 
Truman ducks out of sight as a fleet of STUDIO SECURITY CARS speeds towards the tram.  But they streak past, on their way to the site of Truman's escape.  As he tentatively gets back to his feet, Truman finds a CHILD standing in front of him with an autograph book. 
CHILD Please, Mister Truman. 
On the child's T-shirt, a large photograph of Truman's face. 
INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK. 
CHRISTOF talks anxiously on the phone, unaware of a shift in the balance of power taking place behind his back.  The executives, MOSES and ROMAN are huddling with SIMEON, making him an offer he appears to welcome. 
CHRISTOF (into the phone) What do you mean he's not there?  We can't have lost him again. 
On the far side of the control room, behind a huge curved glass wall on a mezzanine floor, a studio tour tram passes by. 
INT.  STUDIO TRAM.  DUSK. 
