"U Turn", shooting draft, revised by Richard Rutowski & Oliver Stone 
U-Turn 
(Stray Dogs) 
Screenplay by John Ridley 
and 
Richard Rutowski & Oliver Stone 
NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS AND SOME "OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS SOFT COPY. 
EXT. SOMEWHERE IN THE DESERT SOUTHWEST - DAY 
BEGIN TITLES OVER: 
It is early morning and already hot.  INSECTS drone, crackle, and scurry for shade.  PRAIRIE DOGS burrow to escape the sun. We can see the heat shimmering off the surface of the Earth. 
On a dusty highway, a pair of VULTURES dine on a dead coyote. One of them snags an intestine and tugs a few feet of it out of the carcass. 
In the distance, where a long, dusty road meets the horizon, a small shape appears -- a Sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang convertible, its top down.  Its candy-apple red burns like a brilliant fireball under the sun.  As the car drifts closer, we see steam escaping from under the hood.  Sammi Smith's "Please Help Me Get Through The Night" plays on the car's radio. 
INT. BOBBY COOPER'S MUSTANG - DAY 
At the wheel, ignoring impending disaster, BOBBY COOPER, young, good-looking, fiddles with the RADIO dial, annoyed only to find country stations. He's been driving since noon yesterday and it shows -- along with a heavily-bandaged left hand resting on the steering wheel. He finds something by Pearl Jam or Smashing Pumpkins and he cranks it. He pops a Percodan with his good hand as, in the shimmering distance ahead, he sees black shapes in the road and lays on the horn. 
BOBBY Get off the goddamn road! 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
As the MUSTANG powers by, the VULTURES move off the shoulder, silently watching. 
INT. MUSTANG - DAY 
The RADIO blares as BOBBY fights to stay awake. His attention is caught by blue and red lights flashing in the oncoming lane. He sits up as the POLICE CAR (SHERIFF POTTER inside) closes quickly. The SIREN starts faintly, then SCREAMS as the cruiser roars past at speed. 
BOBBY Fuck you! 
There is a loud pop from the front of the Mustang and a thick cloud of steam now pours from the hood. The temperature gauge now starts rising. 
BOBBY No!...Not now!...Shit! 
A couple of SEMIS roar past in the opposite direction, buffetting the Mustang with their air waves. 
EXT. FORK IN THE ROAD - DAY 
The car rolls into a fork in the road, limping with the droop of an animal that won't make another hundred yards. 
One sign on the larger road says "GLOBE" is 29 miles away. The other sign, on the lesser road, tells us "SUPERIOR" is only 2 miles. A third sign confirms his destiny with "Gas, Food, 1 Mile." 
BOBBY seems to have no choice. He aims the car down the lesser road towards "Superior, Arizona." 
EXT. OUTSKIRTS SUPERIOR - DAY 
The car rattles on its last legs, as BOBBY mutters incantations, noticing a old, ghostlike MINING COMPANY at the base of the mountains overlooking the TOWN. It's deserted now, no one visible, the gates shut, but in its vast, dark bulk, we sense the ancient richness and power of this town. Bobby moves on. 
EXT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - DAY 
Down the road from the MINING COMPANY, BOBBY'S CAR pulls into a small GAS STATION, made of weather-beaten wood, its windows long since dusted over. The pumps themselves look to have been manufactured in the early fifties. Above the station is a sign so faded it's barely readable: HARLIN'S. 
Bobby gets out of the car and with great care, favoring his bandaged left hand which seems to give him a great deal of pain, he opens the hood. A plume of steam hits him in the face. 
BOBBY Oh shit! 
Bobby looks around for someone, anyone.  After a few moments he reaches into the car and blows the horn.  He waits, then blows it again.  From out of the station walks DARRELL - a slow-looking man in coveralls caked with grease and dirty.  He looks the part of a yokel. 
BOBBY You Harlin? 
DARRELL Nope.  Darrell. 
BOBBY Harlin around? 
DARRELL He's up at the Look Out. 
Darrell points a scraggly finger at a plateau in the distance. 
BOBBY Will he be back soon? 
DARRELL Doubt it.  He's dead.  The Look Out's a cemetery. 
BOBBY You own this place? 
BOBBY Now do you mind? I got to get some stuff out of the trunk. 
He throws the car key to Darrell who takes the hint, spits grotesquely into the dirt, scratches his nuts, and walks back to the shack. 
Concealed by the trunk lid, Bobby pulls out a GUN (a .9mm black Baretta), wrapped in a t-shirt, from the top of the bag. Perhaps we see a flash of green money, lots of it. Sports pages and betting sheets are piled inside. With a look around, Bobby takes the gun and stashes it underneath the rubber mat in the trunk. Briefly we notice a towing ROPE under the mat. There is a small travel bag, from which he peels a fresh bottle of Percodan, quickly taking two, as well as the sports page. 
INT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - DAY 
DARRELL watches out of the darkened office through the front window, as BOBBY slams the trunk and starts walking down the road, with the bag on his shoulder. 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - LATER 
BOBBY walks along a dusty patch of road into town past a sign saying "SUPERIOR - HOME OF THE GOLDEN DOOR RETIREMENT COMMUNITY." As he walks on, a pair of MOTORCYCLERS roar past on their Harleys blanketing him in a cloud of DUST.  He shouts after them, but his words are lost under the whine of the cycle engines. 
EXT. SUPERIOR MAIN STREET - DAY 
BOBBY hits town, such as it is:  The Freeway left here a few years back. There are only a few little stores:  A general store, a catalog outlet, a post office that doubles as a bus depot.  All of them built for the desert heat. The busiest spot in town seems to be the truckstop/diner with a few 18 wheelers parked outside it. 
At the corner of one street sits an old BLIND MAN dressed in raggedy clothes, perhaps an Indian. His SEEING-EYE DOG lies next to him. He's talking to TWO OLD MEN, veterans perhaps, Indian or Spanish. They both have missing limbs and slide off with furtive alcoholic looks as Bobby passes. The Blind Man yells out in an American Indian accent. 
BLIND MAN Hey!  You there! 
BOBBY You want something, old man? 
BLIND MAN Don't call me old man.  Ain't you got no respect, boy? 
BOBBY You want something? 
BLIND MAN Yeah I want something.  I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop. 
BOBBY You can't do that yourself? 
BLIND MAN Hell no, I can't do that myself.  I'm blind.  Can't you see that? 
BOBBY I'm sorry, I didn't-- 
BLIND MAN What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on?  Sunnin' myself? 
BOBBY I don't know.  I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes. 
BLIND MAN I ain't got no eyes.  You want to see? 
BOBBY Christ no! 
BLIND MAN Lost my eyes in Vyee-et-nam.  Lost them fighting the commies.  Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of me. 
BOBBY I said I was sorry. 
BLIND MAN Don't be sorry.  Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst. 
BOBBY Yeah, sure.  You got change? 
BLIND MAN Change?  You want my change?  I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change? 
BOBBY All right, old man.  Christ. 
Bobby walks across the street to a very old soda machine; it has bottles instead of cans.  The blind man shouts to Bobby. 
BLIND MAN Get me a Dr. Peppa!  I don't want no Colas. Colas ain't nothing but flavored water. 
Bobby puts change in the machine and pulls out a bottle of Dr. Pepper.  He starts back to the blind man. 
BLIND MAN Don't forget to open it for me.  I can't be opening my own bottle. 
BOBBY Christ! 
Bobby goes back to the machine and opens the bottle, then walks back to the old man who pours a splash on the ground. 
BLIND MAN A little for Mother Earth. I'm about fifty percent Indian, you know. To all our relations. 
He takes a hearty swig of the soda. 
BLIND MAN Ah!  Just what I needed!  Want some? 
The blind man holds the bottle out to Bobby.  A string of saliva runs from his lips to the bottle's neck. 
BOBBY I'll pass. 
Bobby reaches down and pets the old man's dog. Flies buzz around both the dog and the Blind Man. 
BOBBY I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick. 
BLIND MAN That's 'cause he's dead. 
GRACE It's just new drapes and curtain rods.  If I had known it was going to be so heavy I would have had them delivered up to the house. 
Bobby struggles with the package.  Sweat starts to sheet his face. 
BOBBY (panting) That a fact? 
GRACE I just got tired of looking at the old drapes. My mother made them. Had them long as I can remember. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it? 
BOBBY (straining) Yes, I have. 
GRACE 'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending.  But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself.  I deserve nice things. 
BOBBY (can hardly talk) I ... can't ... argue ... 
They arrive at a JEEP SAHARA. 
GRACE This is it. 
Bobby practically drops the package.  He is covered with sweat. 
GRACE Thank you, Bobby. 
BOBBY You're welcome, Grace. 
GRACE You're not from around here, are you? 
BOBBY Why you say that?  Just because I help a lady with her package? 
GRACE You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day. 
BOBBY I just drove in this morning. 
GRACE Drove into Superior?  What for? 
BOBBY Didn't have a choice.  My car overheated up the road. 
GRACE You're lucky you didn't break down in the desert.  Day like today, you'd be dead in no time. When you leaving? 
BOBBY Not until my car's fixed.  I don't know how long that's going to take. 
GRACE And here I've made you all hot and sweaty. 
Grace steps to Bobby and places her hand against his chest.  She rubs away some of the sweat. They look at each other a beat. A POLICE CAR, seen earlier, pulls up beside them from behind and idles. SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER is a weathered, handsome, middle-aged man with suspicious eyes, black haired in contrast to Bobby's sandiness. 
SHERIFF Morning Grace. 
GRACE Morning Sheriff. Got my drapes. 
SHERIFF Well it's about time. Looks like you found yourself a helper too. 
Bobby wants to shrink behind the drapes. 
GRACE Well, he offered, and I just couldn't refuse. His car overheated. 
SHERIFF Oh? 
Bobby turns to the Sheriff and forces a smile. 
BOBBY Morning, officer. 
SHERIFF Son. (beat, to Grace) Little excitement out at the reservation this morning. Wayne and Dale Elkhart were up drinking all night and then Wayne starts chasing Dale around the desert with his shotgun. BIA handled it. I went by for backup. 
GRACE Anybody hurt? 
SHERIFF Hell, no. That Wayne can't shoot when he's sober, much less drunk. He's lucky he didn't kill his own danged self. (beat) Well, anyhow, you stay cool. Nice meeting you, son. 
BOBBY Same here, officer. 
The Sheriff drives on.  Pause.  They look at each other. 
GRACE Well, I guess I could use some help getting this box into the house.  Not far. You could shower, get something cool to drink. 
Bobby considers the offer, but there's not much considering to do. 
BOBBY Well, I could use something cool. 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 
BOBBY rides along with GRACE in her JEEP. 
GRACE Where you coming from? 
BOBBY All over.  Chicago, Houston, Detroit.  Just lately Dallas. 
BOBBY Nice place. 
GRACE Thank you. 
Grace sits on the edge of the bed. Bobby indicates the picture, ironic. 
BOBBY Who's that, your father? 
GRACE (without much thought) Stepfather... 
BOBBY (coy) Got a boyfriend? 
GRACE No. Not really. 
Bobby senses she's lying but plays along. 
BOBBY Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house. 
GRACE I guess it must. 
BOBBY What do you do anyway? 
GRACE A little of this, a little of that.  Mostly I tell fortunes. 
BOBBY Where'd you learn to do that? 
GRACE From my father.  He was the tribe's shaman. 
BOBBY A medicine man? 
GRACE Those are white words, not ours. 
BOBBY Nice house for a shaman's daughter.  You must be good. 
GRACE Come here. 
Bobby goes to Grace and kneels before her.  She takes his head in her hands and looks deep into his eyes.  Her voice goes thick, but soft, like a morning fog. 
GRACE There's something in your past; something you want to keep hidden.  There's a pain. Something ... someone you can't forget. And there is something you want very badly. It seems very far away to you, but you are determined, and you will do what you must to get it. 
Bobby closes his hands on Grace's and takes them from his face. He is more than slightly spooked by the accuracy of Grace's reading. 
BOBBY My face tell you all that? 
GRACE It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. (seductively) What is it you want? 
BOBBY The same thing you do. 
They silently stare into each other's eyes. 
GRACE Really?  I want to hang drapes. 
Grace walks from the room.  For a moment Bobby stares after her. He takes an ice cube from his glass and crunches it in his teeth. 
INT. GRACE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 
GRACE is standing on a step ladder trying to hang the drapes. BOBBY notices a photo of Grace with an older INDIAN WOMAN, her mother? 
GRACE Hold me. 
Bobby stands behind her, gently places his hands on Grace's waist. 
GRACE Tighter.  I won't break. You know girls are a lot tougher than men think. 
Bobby holds her tighter as she finished hanging the drapes.  His eyes are transfixed on her ass. 
GRACE There.  All done.  Lift me down. 
BOBBY What? 
GRACE Lift me down. 
Bobby lifts Grace down from the ladder.  He holds her, his hands around her waist. 
GRACE You can let go of me now. I'm safe.(with a wicked smile) How do they look? 
BOBBY Like you. 
GRACE Beautiful? 
BOBBY (kidding) Like they're made of polyester. 
GRACE I like them.  I was sick of looking at this room.  I think they add a little life. 
Jake punches him in the nose. 
JAKE You can't just walk in here and walk out, you sonufabitch! I'm gonna tear you a new asshole! 
BOBBY You broke my nose! 
JAKE It ain't broke. 
It probably isn't, but it bleeds. Bobby feels the blood and then sees it on his shirt. 
BOBBY Goddamn it! I'm... you're lucky I don't sue you. 
JAKE (opens the door) Get goin' Junior. 
Bobby glares back at Grace who gives him a maddening little smile. 
BOBBY You people are crazy! 
He storms out holding his nose. 
EXT. DESERT ROAD - LATER - DAY 
BOBBY, holding a handkerchief to his nose which has stopped bleeding, hauling his bag on his shoulder, walks back to town along the side of the road. Already he is caked with a mixture of sweat and dust, looking up at the relentless sun that beats down on him. 
BOBBY Fuckin' shithole! 
A CADILLAC slows beside him, JAKE driving. 
BOBBY What the fuck do you want? 
JAKE I'll give you a lift, son. Too hot to be walking... People die out here, y'know. 
Bobby continues walking. 
JAKE Aw, you're not still upset about that love tap, are you? If I meant you real trouble, I'd have given it to you by now. Get in, lad. Come on. Get in. 
Bobby gets in. 
JAKE After you huffed off, Grace lied so bad, I got so pissed off, I pulled down her pants to paddle her ass raw and finger-fucked it instead. Sorry I lost my cool like that. It's a funny thing, women. 
BOBBY Yeah... 
JAKE Say, what happened to your hand? 
BOBBY Accident. 
JAKE You've got to be-- 
BOBBY Yeah, I know.  More careful. 
JAKE I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna. 
BOBBY That's a solid name. 
JAKE I'm a solid man. 
BOBBY Bobby Cooper. 
JAKE "Bobby Cooper." What brings you to Superior, Coop? 
BOBBY An overheated car. 
JAKE Oh? Darrell taking good care of you? 
BOBBY Darrell's a moron. 
JAKE (laughs) Yeah, he sure is a character. You need any help with that car now?... Where you headed? 
BOBBY California... 
JAKE Live there? 
BOBBY Got work.  I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him. 
JAKE You a sailor man?  That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away.  A man could pretty well disappear like that.  Just sail away until all he was was a memory.  I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile. 
BOBBY I hope so. (beat) Listen, McKenna about your wife:  If I had known she was married-- 
JAKE It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it?  Not a wit.  Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples. 
BOBBY Wait a second-- 
JAKE Ah, I can smell it on you. 
BOBBY You don't need numbers.  That's why it's expensive.  Look at the gold. 
Darrell doubts that, shake his head. 
DARRELL ...got no day, got no date.  Probably ain't worth a duck's fart (proffers his own watch). This one here cost me $3.75 and it's got every doodad you can imagine. No sir I'll stick with this (walks away). 
BOBBY You son of a bitch! I'll have my lawyers shut you down. 
DARRELL You ain't got no credit card but you got a lawyer. Sweet talk me all you want.  Didn't you read the sign? It says... 
BOBBY What sign? Fuck the sign. I want my car. 
DARRELL I want my hundred and forty-five dollars. 
Bobby stands his ground for a moment as if deciding whether or not to fight for the car, then wheels and walks away. 
Darrell looks at him, smirks. 
INT. TRUCK STOP/DINER - LATER 
It is a little worn diner-type stop one would find on most any open road:  Counter with stools, laminated menus, a Wurlitzer in the corner belching out country TUNES.  Business is slow but it's the only restaurant in town. There is a SHORT ORDER COOK in the kitchen, and FLO, a hard-looking waitress is behind the counter.  A couple of regular drivers, ED and BOYD, are seated on the stools, Boyd is flipping a coin. 
ED One-hundred-thirteen degrees.  That was back in July of forty-seven. That afternoon it dropped down to forty three! True story. 
BOYD One time last year I remember it went from 98 to 23 same day. Wind, black clouds come out like... 
BOBBY comes out of the men's room and sits at the end of the counter.  He has cleaned himself up a bit but still looks like a mess. He buries his face in the menu. 
BOBBY You got a beer? 
FLO What kind? 
BOBBY Beck's. 
FLO No Beck's. A-1, Coors... 
BOBBY Heineken? 
FLO No, we ain't got no Heineken.  We got Miller. 
BOBBY Genuine Draft? 
FLO No.  Just plain ol' Miller. Now you can fuckin' take it or you can fuckin' leave it. 
BOBBY I'll fuckin' take it. To go. 
SHORT ORDER COOK Flo, cheeseburger bleedin'. 
FLO I'll be right back with that beer. 
Flo moves off. 
BOBBY ...and a waitress named Flo.  Christ. 
As Bobby stares at the money on the counter in front of him, he hears, from somewhere outside the diner, the sound of a POLICE RADIO crackling. He now feels something against his foot.  He looks down and sees a CAT rubbing against his leg.  He gives it a good kick sending it sliding across the floor with a screech. 
BOBBY Fucking cat. 
In the background, two teenagers sit at a booth.  TOBY looks the part of a local, wearing jeans and a white T-shirt.  His hair is cropped close and he looks to be a senior in high school.  His girl, JENNY, is nondescript, neither ugly nor beautiful. She is the kind of girl most guys would pass without a second look. Toby gets up from his booth and goes to the bathroom.  After he is gone Jenny walks to Bobby. 
JENNY Hey, Mister.  You gotta quarter for the juke? 
BOBBY What? 
JENNY I wanna play a song on the juke.  You got a quarter? 
Bobby looks at Jenny, then picks a quarter from his winnings and flips it to her. He can't resist putting a little charm into it. 
JENNY What happened to your hand? 
BOBBY I cut it shaving; I know, I gotta be more careful. 
JENNY Got any requests? 
BOBBY That country shit all sounds the same to me. 
JENNY How about I pick one out for you? 
Bobby half smiles.  Jenny plays a song.  Patsy Cline's "Your Cheatin' Heart."  Jenny takes up a stool next to Bobby's. 
JENNY You like Patsy Cline?  I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records. 
BOBBY Cause she's dead. 
SHERIFF More like Jenny is after every man she sees. 
FLO (to Bobby) You pay Toby no mind.  He just likes to show off for his girl.  Give him a couple of hours, he'll cool off.  Still want that beer? 
BOBBY (tense, seeing the Sheriff) I'll take it to go. 
Bobby holds his hand to his face to cover the cut on his forehead. 
ED How's it with you, Sheriff? 
SHERIFF Already started out bad.  Couple of bikers from out of town tried to knock over Jamilla's grocery store this morning. It was a real shootout. 
BOYD What happened? 
SHERIFF The old witch killed 'em both. 
ED Holy shit! 
FLO Poor thing.  Is she all right? 
SHERIFF Sure, when the sons of bitches tried to steal her wedding ring. That's when she started shooting.  Can't blame her.  The ring was all Carlos left her when he died. Store's a mess. 
BOYD It's the desert.  That's what it is.  The desert makes everybody crazy.  Ain't that right, Sheriff?  People go crazy out here. 
ED Come on, Boyd.  I've got to make tracks. That yogurt's got to make Santa Fe before it spoils. 
BOYD Dr. Pepper don't have that problem. 
Ed and Boyd toss a few bills on the counter and exit.  Flo stands near the cash register with Bobby's beer. 
FLO I can't open off-sale for you, sugar. 
Bobby pays for the beer ($1.75).  Flo opens the register. 
FLO Let me get your change. 
SHERIFF Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee. 
The Sheriff reaches around the counter for the pot. 
FLO You be careful now, Virgil. 
Just as the words leave Flo's mouth the Sheriff spills the pot. It shatters against the floor spilling hot coffee everywhere. Flo runs over to him. 
SHERIFF Son of a bitch! 
FLO Virgil!  Now look at what you done!  Are you all right? 
SHERIFF I think I burned my gun hand! 
As Flo bends to wipe the counter, Virgil touches her intimately. 
SHERIFF (Cont'd) How 'bout we put something soft on it later? (a look) 
FLO (quietly) I could put some butter on it, hon'. (Her normal abrasive voice) It'd serve you right, you asshole.  Put it under some cold water. Joe, run get a mop and clean this fuckin' mess up. 
While everyone is distracted Bobby notices that the register drawer has been left open.  He looks around to make sure he is not being watched.  Slowly he eases his hand towards the drawer. It gets closer and closer.  As he is about to grab the money there, the cat - the same one he kicked away earlier - hisses and claws at his hand.  Bobby jumps back startled. 
FLO Shasta!  Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that?  Sorry about that, mister.  Let's see, you want $3.25. (gives it to him) You try to have a nice day now, would you? 
BOBBY Sure, I'll try. 
With the Sheriff occupied, and the Mexican Jose mopping the floor, Bobby exits. 
EXT. PHONE BOOTH - STREET - DAY 
BOBBY begs on the phone. 
BOBBY Cici?  Cici, it's Bobby...Bobby Cooper...Yeah, look, I know it's been a while, but I'm kind of in a jam...yeah...One-hundred-fifty dollars...That's a lie. I called you on your birthday..Two years ago...I can't help it if you didn't get the message. Cici, honey, I don't want to argue. I need you to wire me the money...Because they're fucking going to KILL ME!  I didn't steal your CD's...Yeah, well where's my Mr. Coffee. Cici...Cici... 
Bobby slams the phone. 
BOBBY Bitch. Cunt. 
JUMP CUT TO: 
EXT. SAME PHONE BOOTH - STREET - DAY 
BOBBY is on another call, circling a local sports page betting line. 
BOBBY 73-11, this is Pluto. What's the line on Dallas? 
GAMBLER'S VOICE Pluto. Fucking deadbeat. We head about you. You owe "the commie" 13 dimes, why you tryin' to get in my office? Lose this fuckin' number. 
MR. ARKADY Do you understand me you little fuck? 
BOBBY (snaps) Oh, fuck you too! 
MR. ARKADY What'd you say to me! 
BOBBY Shit I'm sorry!...you can't believe the strain I'm under. I'm just under a lot of strain here. 
There is a sharp silence at the other end. Bobby waits. 
MR. ARKADY Bobby, you owed me that 'bread' 4 weeks ago. Now you tell me you want another week. That's 5 weeks, Bobby. That's also 5 fingers, cause you and I know it's a finger a week Bobby. So you got balls. Good--now you come here tomorrow and you talk to me real nice and maybe I don't take the other 3 fingers you owe me, you see? Tomorrow -- and Bobby, don't make me come look for you, okay...have nice day. 
He hands the phone back to Sergei. 
SERGEI (into phone) You got that? -- have nice day (hangs up). 
MR. ARKADY The nerva that piece of shit! And look at you, you Neanderthal -- don't you fuckin' break pencils, you goombah! 
SOFIA Finger? What are you, a faggot? In my country a man don't pay we cut off his head. 
Arkady motions Sergei to come close. 
MR. ARKADY Get your ass down to this Superior, Arizona. Bring me this Bobby Cooper. I don't think he got the lesson. This is your last chance, Sergei. 
SERGEI Da. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
BOBBY, desperate, stares at the bandage of his wounded hand. It throbs, holding the hand to his ear. 
We hear an OPERATOR'S VOICE: 
OPERATOR(V.O.) Hello? 
BOBBY Hello? 
OPERATOR(V.O.) Are you finished with your call? 
BOBBY Yeah. 
OPERATOR(V.O.) Please deposit an additional seventy-five cents. 
Bobby slams the phone against the hook. 
BOBBY Goddamn rat's ass fuck! Shit! Damn! Damn! Damn! 
He marches from the phone booth, past an old HARDWARE STORE. The phone falls from the hook and we hear a recorded voice: 
VOICE(V.O.) Thank you for using AT&T. 
In the store window, Bobby notices a set of garden shears for sale. 
EXT. EMPTY STREET - LATER DAY 
BOBBY walks a bit going nowhere in particular.  Looking at his watch thinking of Mr. Arkady, he shields himself with one hand from the sun.  At the side of an old building, in the bit of shade it throws, he twists at the beer cap which sticks and won't turn.  Bobby tries again twisting harder -- too hard -- as the cap jerkily twists off, cutting into his hand as it rotates. Bobby yells in pain.  At the same time the beer comes foaming from the bottle and spills onto his sleeve. The bottle slips from his wet fingers and crashes on the ground, emptying. He clutches his bleeding hand, pissed. 
BOBBY Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! I hate this fuckin' town! I hate it! Do you hear me? (no answer) Get me outta here, please.  I gotta get out of this place. 
As if in answer, a JEEP drives by on the main street. GRACE looks pretty hot up there in the driver's seat, her eyes, behind sunglasses, flicking over him but not acknowledging him as she keeps going. 
Bobby's eyes throw back his own hostility at her, but unfortunately she misses it, as he now notices -- across the street -- a well-kept building with the most modern decor and signage, reading "McKenna's Realty Co." 
He thinks about it, in a quandary. 
EXT. HIGHWAY/CAR - DAY 
In a rented convertible, we now see SERGEI racing across the desert. His jacket off, a man with a mission. He glances at his watch, eager to get to this "fucking hole in the wall" which is somewhere on this incomprehensible American map he holds in one hand. 
INT. JAKE'S REALTY OFFICE - DAY 
BOBBY squats, looking at a real estate model of a desert development. JAKE smiles. 
JAKE What can I do for you, lad? 
BOBBY I was hoping we could talk. 
JAKE Talk?  About what? 
BOBBY About things.  About your wife. 
JAKE Sweet Grace?  What about her? 
BOBBY About what you said this morning. 
JAKE Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I know you... (then) This is what you do:  Go to the house to see her. 
BOBBY (beat) And tell her what? 
EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - LATER DAY 
BOBBY stands on the porch talking to GRACE through the screen of the front door.  The look on his face is sincere.  Hers is skeptical.  We see the action take place as we hear Jake's V.O.: 
JAKE(V.O.) ...I don't know.  Tell her you had to see her.  Tell her you don't care if she's married or not, you had to be with her. Sweet talk the woman.  A young buck like you must be good at that.  Then ... maybe shift the conversation.  Get her thinking about that jeep of hers.  She loves that thing.  Maybe the only thing she does love. She'll want to take you for a ride. 
BOBBY I know you're not surprised I'm back here, cause you can read my mind and all. 
She's not surprised. 
GRACE (seeing his new cut) That's some cut. I told you to be more careful. 
BOBBY Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk... 
GRACE How do you know he's still not here? 
BOBBY Guys like me take those chances. Let's go. 
EXT. DESERT - DAY 
GRACE'S JEEP cuts hard across the desert.  Grace has a wild, excited look on her face.  BOBBY sits next to her looking somewhat nervous. 
JAKE(V.O.) She'll take you out somewhere in the desert.  She loves it out there; ridin' through the red rock and the mesas.  So do I.  I guess we got that in common.  She'll ride you out someplace quiet.  Someplace deserted. 
FADE TO: 
EXT. DESERT - LATER DAY 
GRACE has stopped the JEEP on a plateau.  BOBBY sits beneath its shade while Grace walks in the sun seemingly unaffected by the heat. VULTURES swoop above. 
JAKE(V.O.) There won't be anyone for miles around. Just the two of you and some prairie dogs. That's all.  You can sweet talk her a little if you like.  Makes no difference to me.  Just put her at ease, make her feel relaxed -- then do it. 
JAKE'S V.O. ends.  The scene is now synch with real time. 
BOBBY Are there snakes out here? 
GRACE They hear you comin'.  They won't bother you. Just don't sneak up on 'em. 
BOBBY Doesn't the isolation bother you? 
GRACE Yeah, but I like the sun.  I grew up on a reservation.  The sun, the desert; they like a religion to us.  Jake's the same way.  He loves the desert.  I guess we're alike that way.  That's about the only way. 
BOBBY You love him? 
GRACE No. 
BOBBY Did you ever? 
GRACE Depends on what you call love. I grew up on a reservation. A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere. That's where they stick Indians, Bobby. That's where they leave us to die. My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he couldn't take it anymore. There's no hope there... Jake was my ticket out. Mom and me. 
BOBBY Is that why you're with him? 
GRACE I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love? 
BOBBY I'm guessing no. 
GRACE Yeah, I guess you're right. 
BOBBY I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned. 
GRACE I'm still here, aren't I?  See this? 
Grace sweeps her hand before her across the expanse of the desert. The vultures are very much a part of this landscape. 
GRACE(CONT) All this nothing? It doesn't get to Jake like it gets to me.  He says he don't mind being nothing but a big fish in a small pond.  More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole. 
BOBBY You could leave him. 
GRACE I don't know how. 
BOBBY Walk away. 
GRACE It's not that easy.  Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please.  I can't. I don't want to be alone.  I need to know I'm going to be taken care of. 
BOBBY You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here. 
GRACE Is that so bad?  It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy.  For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would ... do things for him.  I guess I'm no good that way.  I guess I tried to sucker you along like that.  Do you hate me for it?  I wouldn't blame you if you did.  But maybe it's like you said: You just got to do whatever it takes to get out. 
BOBBY (soft echo) Whatever it takes. 
GRACE Darrell?  You know he and Jake are... 
BOBBY You don't have any money put away, do you? 
GRACE Jake never gives me more'n twenty bucks at a time, like a bird in a cage, he don't want me goin' anywhere... 
BOBBY ...you could get me money. I'll get you out of here. 
She looks at him. 
GRACE There's money. A lot. 
The words hang there, thick between them. 
BOBBY Where? 
GRACE Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it. 
BOBBY What do you mean? 
GRACE At night. He just sits there and laughs and talks to himself and counts it. I heard him. My Mom told me he had a hunnert thousand dollars down there. Maybe more. 
Bobby's eyes widen in hope. 
BOBBY In cash? 
GRACE Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at least... 
BOBBY One-hundred-thousand!?  That son-of-a-bitch. 
GRACE (puzzled) What do you mean? 
BOBBY (ignoring her) If it's in a safe we'd have to get the combination-- 
GRACE It takes a key.  He keeps it on himself all the time.  I mean all the time.  It scratches up against me when we do it. 
BOBBY If the key's on him, how do we get the key? 
GRACE Kill him. 
Spoken almost innocently, it hangs there between them. A silence. 
BOBBY I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody. 
GRACE It's not like he's a young man, Bobby. He's had time to live. It'd be quick. I mean, he wouldn't even have to feel it... (seductively) I mean, sometime in the middle of the night, when it's quiet...when he's asleep, you could just come up behind him when he's pounding on me and... 
Grace lays her hands on Bobby, starting to caress him. He bristles and freezes with fear and disgust. 
BOBBY Shit! Listen to you... Are you crazy, Grace? 
He abruptly pulls away. 
BOBBY Jesus Christ! I think this place is making me crazy. I was crazy to come back here and see you. I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute with you. 
Grace rises, covering her nakedness, shooting a hand to his face, like she did when she read his fortune. 
GRACE But it's in you, Bobby. I see it. I see Death. It's in your heart. Let it out for me. Let it out... 
He's mesmerized. Then: 
GRACE Do it for me, Bobby, you'll never regret it. I promise you. I'll do anything for you. Anything. 
Bobby pauses, terribly torn. 
BOBBY I...take me back to town... 
He turns away, towards the jeep. Grace has a tone of desperation in her voice. 
GRACE You need the money, Bobby. It's a lot more than $100,000. A lot more. How are you going to get out of here? You need the money. Whatever it takes, Bobby, remember? 
Bobby walks past the jeep, on his way back to town alone. 
GRACE Where you going? I'll give you the ride...Come back! Bobby? It's three miles. 
Bobby doesn't look back. Her eyes drift backwards into her solitude. 
GRACE (to herself) Bobby?...Whatever it takes. 
EXT. DESERT/ALONG THE ROAD - LATER DAY 
BOBBY walks through the desert parallel to the road, still in a rage. Desert insects produce a cacophony of drones, buzzes, and clicks. A rattlesnake darts off a rock into the brush. A VOICE whispers to him. 
JAKE (V.O.) You've got the killing in you, boy. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
BOBBY, depressed, is heading towards Harlin's gas station, passing JENNY sitting on a corner drinking a soda, almost as if waiting for him. She runs to him, and follows him, as somewhere a POLICE RADIO crackles and buzzes. 
JENNY Hey mister. Mister, I just... I just wanted to thank you. 
BOBBY For what? 
JENNY For defending my honor this afternoon. 
BOBBY I hate to bust your bubble honey, but I wasn't defending you. 
JENNY But you was going to fight for me. 
BOBBY I wasn't going to fight for you.  I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend. 
JENNY He's not my boyfriend.  I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for.  Not yet that is. 
BOBBY Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you.  If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him.  You're not going to get much better in this town. 
JENNY That's what I thought until you came riding in.  I saw your car over at the gas station.  It's a cool car.  Want to take me for a ride?  Desert's kind of lonely this time of day. 
BOBBY How old are you? 
JENNY (beat) Eighteen... Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want. 
BOBBY No, I don't want to take you for a ride. What I want is for ... Hey, you don't think you can get $150 from your parents, could you? 
From OFF CAMERA we hear TOBY. 
TOBY(O.C.) Mister! 
BOBBY Oh, shit! 
Toby moves menacingly up the street towards Bobby. 
TOBY That's right, Mister.  You better be afraid.  I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen.  Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back. 
BOBBY I wasn't sneaking around with your girl. Would you please tell him? 
JENNY You're too late, Toby.  We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind. 
BOBBY What the hell are you talking about? 
JENNY What's your name anyway? 
TOBY Oh, that tears it, Mister.  I'm gonna bust you up but good.  I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then ... and then bust those pieces up, and then ... and then spread them all around.  That's what I'm gonna do.  You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister.  I'm crazy.  I'm psycho crazy. 
BOBBY Yeah, I know.  You're TNT.  Just like dynamite.  When you go off somebody gets hurt. (at his wit's end) All right.  Let's do this. 
JENNY Toby Tucker, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child. 
BOBBY Will you shut up! 
TOBY You gonna pay for that, Mister. 
Toby and Bobby square off, sizing each other up and preparing for a violent confrontation.  Just as the two are about to clash we hear the voice of SHERIFF POTTER from OFF CAMERA. 
SHERIFF(O.C.) Toby! 
The two men freeze in their tracks, as Potter drives up fast. 
TOBY Hey, Sheriff Potter. 
SHERIFF (tough) Toby, I just came from your mother's place. She's worried sick about you.  She says she ain't seen you since this morning. 
TOBY That ain't true, Sheriff.  I was home for lunch. 
SHERIFF Boy, I'm not trying to hear nothing from you except that you're heading home.  Now run along. 
TOBY Yes, sir.  Come on, Jenny. 
JENNY I want to stay. 
TOBY I said come on! 
Toby grabs Jenny by the wrist and literally pulls he along.  As she goes she yells back to Bobby. 
JENNY Bye, Mister.  Don't go nowhere without me. I wanna have your love child. 
Toby points a vicious finger at Bobby. 
TOBY Next time, Mister.  Next time. 
BOBBY I didn't tell you to replace any gasket. 
DARRELL Yeah, but it was shot. 
BOBBY I don't give a fuck! I didn't tell you to do it!  You can't just do unauthorized work. 
DARRELL Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you?  Didn't you read the sign. 
BOBBY What sign? 
DARRELL The goddamn sign on the wall. I can't do unauthorized work?  What am I suppose to do? Just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket.  Then you get in an accident and get killed.  Or worse.  Who they gonna blame then?  They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation. 
BOBBY What reputation?  You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumbleweed hick. 
DARRELL Is that an insult?  Are you insulting me. 
BOBBY Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car. 
DARRELL Listen to me you sorry sonufabitch. You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it.  And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on it. Is that clear? Now get out of here 'fore I call the Sheriff, who knows me. 
Bobby is in a rage.  He turns to leave and walks a few paces. He sees a WRENCH lying on a table.  For a second his mind reels, then he snatches up the wrench and turns ready to smash it down on Darrell's head.  He stops cold.  Because ol' Darrell holds a CROWBAR in a batter's stance ready to smash it onto the Mustang. 
DARRELL You want to play, Mister?  I'll play with you.  You want to smash something?  So do I. 
Darrell pulls back the crowbar, ready to swing. 
BOBBY No! Okay! Okay! 
DARRELL What's the matter?  The fight gone out of you?  I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two. 
BOBBY (pleading, almost crying) Please, just leave the car alone! 
DARRELL Mister, you already pissed me off but good. 
Darrell lays the tip of the crowbar on the hood of the car, and drags the tip of the bar across the hood leaving a long scratch. 
BOBBY (about to lose it) Goddamn you!  You son of a bitch! 
DARRELL There you go, sweet talking me again. 
Darrell begins to laugh. Bobby, desperate, looks to the trunk, thinking of his gun in there. 
His POV -- the trunk. A FLASHBACK of the GUN goes through his mind. 
BOBBY Look, Harlin. 
DARRELL Darrell. 
BOBBY Darrell. I'll get you your money. I just have to get something out of the trunk. 
Using his TRUNK KEY, he tries to open it but realizes the lock has been changed. 
BOBBY What the fuck did you do to my trunk? 
DARRELL Well, that key's not gonna work. I had to pop the lock. You didn't leave me the trunk key. 
BOBBY And you had to go into the trunk, didn't you? 
DARRELL When I work on a car, I work on a car. 
BOBBY (snaps) You motherfucker! (etc.) 
DARRELL You can't help yourself, can you mister? You're out of control. 
Darrell starts to laugh. It is a repetitive, almost demonic laugh that grows louder as the camera slowly dollies in on Bobby's anguished face. 
EXT. STREET - DAY 
As BOBBY steps out into the glaring sun, he notices down at the other end of the town, GRACE'S JEEP parked right outside the SHERIFF'S OFFICE, empty. 
Presently, GRACE and the SHERIFF walk out TALKING, and she gets in, says a few last words and drives away. 
Bobby backs around a corner into a sidestreet. Is she selling him out? He's very confused, turbulent. 
INT. BUS DEPOT - LATER DAY 
BOBBY enters the BUS DEPOT.  The interior is poorly lit.  There are a few benches for people to wait on, but they sit empty. Old, faded travel posters hang on the wall.  A bored FEMALE CLERK is behind the counter. 
BOBBY I need a ticket. 
CLERK Where to? 
BOBBY Out of here. 
Sergei looking Bobby's direction. 
SHERIFF Get out of the car, spread them. You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to shut the fuck up! You commie motherfucker. Either way you're goin' to the can. 
SERGEI I want my lawyer! 
Sheriff cuffs Sergei and sticks him in the police car. 
Bobby can't help smiling as he turns away to the SODA MACHINE seen in an earlier scene. 
He comes up with the change the bus clerk left him and, dying for a drink in this heat, inserts the coin. Though still under considerable pressure from all sides, this lucky break with Sergei seems like it might be the beginning of something new today -- some luck. 
The icy cold soda bottle shoots out. Bobby raises it to his lips, about to taste it, about to relax for once. Violently it explodes out of his hands as he doubles over in blinding pain from a KIDNEY PUNCH. He stumbles forward into the soda machine, gasping. The legs of his assailant are close to him, but the face is unseen. 
Bobby doubles his agony as his bandaged left stump takes the brunt of the blow into the machine, re-opening the wound. Blood starts to seep through the bandage. 
BOBBY Ow! 
Bobby crumples to the ground as TOBY now towers over him with his fists curled and a snarl on his lips. 
TOBY Get up, Mister!  Don't ever let it be said Toby Tucker beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance. 
BOBBY (gasping) What the hell are you doing?  You fucking psycho! 
TOBY I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended.  I'm stompin' your ass. 
BOBBY You idiot!  You don't even know what you're fighting over! 
TOBY My honor, that's what I'm fighting over. Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie? 
JENNY comes running up the street. 
JENNY Toby!  Toby Tucker, leave him alone! 
TOBY You stay away, Jenny.  I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to see. 
Jenny runs to Bobby and cuddles him where he lays. 
JENNY Don't be afraid of him none.  I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together. 
BOBBY Get away from me! 
Bobby sees his bus ticket on the ground.  He grabs for it, but Toby beats him to it. 
TOBY Now, what's this? 
BOBBY Give it to me! 
TOBY Mexico?  You going to Mexico? 
BOBBY I'm leaving.  You never have to see me again.  Just please, give me the ticket! 
TOBY This means something to you?  Jenny means something to me. 
Toby sticks the ticket in his mouth and chews it up whole. 
BOBBY Nooo! 
TOBY (between bites) I'm gonna beat you so bad you gonna be eatin' nothing but soup the erst of your days.  Rain dogs is gonna be prettier than you when I'm done.  I'm gonna mess you up so bad you gonna make your own momma sick. I'm gonna ... 
Toby's words drift to Bobby from a million miles away.  The world around him is like a dream, or a nightmare.  A primal rage wells inside of Bobby that rises up in a howl as he swings the soda bottle up out of nowhere across Toby's head, smashing him backwards. Then he lands blow after blow with his right hand on the boy's face and head. 
Jenny screams: 
JENNY Stop it!  You're killing him! 
Jenny grabs Bobby's arm, literally hanging all her weight on it, stopping him from striking Toby again. 
JENNY You're killing him!  Toby!?  Toby!? 
Jenny sinks to the ground and cuddles Toby.  Bobby stands.  He looks at Toby, then at his bloodied knuckles in disbelief. His bandage is soaked with his own blood, but his adrenaline numbs the pain. 
JENNY You killed him! You killed him! 
She wails in the background as he backs away, around the corner, into Main Street, crossing to where the PHONE BOOTH is. 
EXT. PHONE BOOTH - LATE DAY 
BOBBY is on the phone. 
BOBBY Hello, Grace?  It's Bobby. 
INTERCUTS TO: 
He maneuvers her aside and slips out the door into the corridor. 
INT. LIVING ROOM/MCKENNA HOUSE - SIMULTANEOUS 
Crowbar in one hand, BOBBY makes his way slowly through the living room, banging against the edge of a table. He hops silently in pain, then waits at the door to the next room and listens.  Hearing nothing he slowly pokes his head into the darkness.  A moment later Bobby backs from the door and we see the barrel of his own black .9mm BARETTA pressed against his forehead.  JAKE appears now, backing him into the living room. He switches on a LAMP. 
JAKE Well, well.  As I live and breathe.  I didn't expect to be seeing the like of you again.  Thought you'd be long on your way by now. 
Jake continues to press the gun to Bobby's head. 
BOBBY That's my gun...(then) That fucking Darrell! 
JAKE I like Darrell.  He may be an idiot, but he's my half brother. We own Harlin's together, yeah, that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out. 
BOBBY (realizing) You been workin' me the whole time. 
JAKE I guess this is what they call "ironee"? Hunh? 
BOBBY It's not what you think, Jake. 
JAKE No, but it don't matter anyway when you're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter, didn't have enough money to fix his car. And Darrell happened to find his gun, and through maybe this drifter heard old Jake got some money stashed away, and figgered he might try to break in and steal it! 
BOBBY Wait a minute.  Just listen to me... 
JAKE ...And he thought he'd clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper...and then maybe borrow $200 or $20,000, or $200,000... 
BOBBY (very serious) That's not the reason I'm here, Jake. 
JAKE There's another reason? It better be good. 
INT. HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS 
GRACE makes her way down the hall in a nightgown, and now hides in shadow, listening. 
BOBBY (V.O.) I came for Grace. 
JAKE (V.O.) You came to take my wife from me? 
INT. LIVING ROOM - SIMULTANEOUS 
BOBBY (sincere) No. I came to kill her. 
INT. HALLWAY 
GRACE'S eyes get real narrow and angry. 
JAKE (V.O.) Shhh! Liar. 
BOBBY (V.O.) It's the truth, Jake. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
JAKE That's a thick change of heart from this afternoon. 
BOBBY Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today.  Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother. 
JAKE You have a lot of talk in you, whole lot of talk. 
BOBBY Damn it, Jake. There is a guy coming to kill me, and if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace.  You were going to give me thirteen-thousand.  Give me two-hundred.  I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. She showed me the perfect place. There won't be enough left for an autopsy.  But I need the the money.  I've got to have the money. 
Jake is silent.  He takes his time thinking.  Finally: 
JAKE She's in the bedroom. 
INT. HALLWAY 
GRACE, distressed, starts backing off towards the bedroom. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
BOBBY stares at the automatic in JAKE's hand. 
BOBBY Wanna give me my gun? 
Jake laughs, a "don't even think about it" look. 
JAKE A strangling'll do just fine. Go to work. 
Bobby holds up his eight fingers with a "you try" look. Jake shrugs. Bobby points to the crowbar on the carpet. 
BOBBY How 'bout the pipe? 
JAKE (sarcastic) She's got a slender neck. 
BOBBY Figgers. There's a scratch on the hood and how much you make selling my gun? Deduct it. 
Bobby pulls the hundred back from Darrell's grasp. 
DARRELL (going to get the keys) Don't know nothing about no gun. 
BOBBY Course you don't. Tell me something Darrell. Forty thousand people die every day! How come none of them are you? 
DARRELL (throws him the keys) I think you know where to find her. 
BOBBY And the trunk key. 
DARRELL (pulls out the trunk key) Topped off the tank for you. No charge. Just my way of doing business. 
BOBBY (jovial, confident now) Listen up good, Darrell. I'm getting outta this shithole. You're staying! And one little peep outta you -- remember that gun makes you part of the food chain. Your prints are all over it. I'd be awful careful whose rectum I was pointing my finger in, Darrell. 
Bobby hops in the car, a free man. As Darrell glares at him, bewildered and frightened at the same time. 
EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - NIGHT 
BOBBY turns the MUSTANG up the drive. THE HEADLIGHTS cut the darkness and land on an empty patch where Grace's jeep had been parked.  Bobby jumps from the Mustang and runs around frantically. His look is devastated. He falls to his knees, about to sob when: 
GRACE opens the front door and pokes her head out, putting out several suitcases. 
GRACE Bobby?  What the hell's the matter with you? 
BOBBY I ... nothing.  I just stubbed my toe on a rock.  Hurt like hell. 
GRACE I got the money all packed.  I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage. People'll think maybe me and Jake went away.  Buy us some time...I know a back road we can take. 
BOBBY Good thinking. (looking at her four bags) What's all this? 
GRACE I'm not coming back. 
BOBBY (accepting) Awright, let's go. I want to be fifty miles from here before the sun comes up. 
GRACE Funny thing; the jeep wouldn't start. I had to push it. 
BOBBY (dryly) Funny thing... I'll get the bags. 
EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - LATER NIGHT 
Bobby's MUSTANG is backed towards the front of the house.  We see a silhouette of BOBBY and GRACE carrying something wrapped in a BLANKET and dumping it in the trunk. 
EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
A lone pair of HEADLIGHTS illuminate the night as the Mustang cruises through the dark.  As the lights brighten the screen we: 
FADE TO: 
INT./EXT. MUSTANG - NIGHT 
GRACE sits next to BOBBY peering out the windshield, clutching the money in a backpack. She's humming an Indian song. 
BOBBY I can't see it. 
GRACE It should be just up ahead.  Hold on ... there!  There it is! 
A SIGN illuminated by the HEADLIGHTS.  It reads:  YOU ARE LEAVING SUPERIOR.  THANKS FOR VISITING. 
Grace lets out a scream of joy, leans over and hugs him. 
GRACE Oh, God!  I can't believe it.  I'm out. I'm finally out! 
The MUSTANG begins to swerve along the road. 
BOBBY Hey!  Take it easy.  Want to get us killed? 
GRACE You don't know what it feels like to be free of that place. 
BOBBY I don't know about that? 
GRACE You spent a day in Superior. I wasted my entire life there. I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders. 
BOBBY We've still got some dead weight to get rid of. 
GRACE Can't we just dump him fast someplace? 
BOBBY I want a place where only the vultures will find him...(then) It'll be over soon, Grace. 
GRACE Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you? 
BOBBY I'm not sailing his boat. 
SHERIFF (hurt) Oh Grace, you can say what you want...but, I watched you fuck that pervert for years while you're telling me you loved me? What happened to going to Milwaukee together? You and me -- gonna open up the finest sporting goods store that city ever did see? Get us a place on the north shore, by the lake? Season Brewer tickets! Just you and me, Grace. What happened? 
GRACE All talk, that's all you did was talk, and all I did was sit around getting older waiting for you to free me! You never did nothin' Virgil, you're weak! (pointing to Bobby) He did! 
The Sheriff, deeply wounded, casts a hot vicious gaze on Bobby. 
SHERIFF This is some girl you and me got here Bobby, yessir, an excellent cocksuck too, wouldn't you say? (back at Grace)... Course you had a lotta practice haven't you darling, going way back to your crazy mama! 
GRACE (deadly) Shut up, Virgil! Take your share of the money. It's not so bad. 
SHERIFF I don't want the fuckin' money! I'm not gonna give up everything I got for a lousy 50,000 dollars. It's you. You Grace or nothing. The whole thing... I want you to be my wife...(hopeful). What do you way Grace? 
GRACE You sound just like Jake... I did see into the future, Virgil, but you weren't in it. Go back to your family. They love you. 
Bobby gets out of the car, misunderstanding the situation. 
BOBBY (misunderstanding) Look, we got more. We got $200,000 at least. Split it three ways, we all walk away... 
The Sheriff snaps and smashes Bobby with his flashlight, knocking him to the ground, kicking him again and again, gathering the psychic force to murder him. Grace tries to approach. 
SHERIFF Shut up, boy! You don't know shit round here! (to Grace) Get back. Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away? 
BOBBY (rolling on the ground) Ow! Look, I ... ow! 
GRACE Stop! Stop it! 
SHERIFF (kicking again and again) Were you going to help her fly away, asshole? What'd you think, you were the first boy to drift through this town she came on to? She tell you the story about old Jake forcing her to marry him? That's a good story... How he killed her crazy Mama? 
Bobby in bloody agony. Grace stunned that Virgil would reveal this now publicly. 
GRACE Goddamnit Virgil, stop!  Don't! 
SHERIFF ...But I bet the story she didn't tell you was the best story of all. How old crazy Jake was really her Papa. And she liked fucking Papa! And now she's killed the sonufabitch! Just like she's gonna kill you! 
Grace plunges into the pack, pulls the gun and shoots Virgil across the car in the gut. 
GRACE No...you! You! 
The Sheriff flies back onto the road, stunned, not realizing what's happened. 
Bobby watches unbelieving as Grace quietly steps up over the Sheriff. 
She puts the next round in his nuts, a modern fury enacting ancient wrath. 
BOBBY Grace. No! 
The Sheriff is wide-eyed, dying in shock. Grace then fires right at his head in a coup de grace that blows his brains out the back of his head. 
Grace and Bobby both stare, then Grace jumps into action, dragging the body. She snaps to Bobby. 
GRACE Help me get him off the road. Into the car! We'll ditch his car... Get the fuck up! 
Bobby stares at her. 
EXT./INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT 
They're driving. GRACE and BOBBY, wordless, each thinking in separate worlds. Grace wipes her hands. The bag with the money between her legs. The Baretta is back in the bag. 
BOBBY (finally) Jesus, did you have to kill him? 
GRACE Get real Bobby. He was gonna kill you and me. 
BOBBY He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and ... 
GRACE The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life... no thanks. 
BOBBY He was a cop, Grace, they never stop looking for you when you kill a cop... 
GRACE He was a scumbag!... He wanted me, Bobby. These guys don't let go! Even when they're dead... (softer) You don't know what it was like, Bobby. Those two, they were the same. 
A silence. The oncoming road. 
GRACE So, aren't you going to ask me? 
BOBBY Ask you what? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next? 
GRACE Don't you want to know...? I bet it's burning a hole in your brain just now? 
BOBBY Let it go, baby. It's the past. I got a past... 
GRACE Don't you really want to know? Was Jake my Daddy? Was I fucking my own Daddy? Don't you want to know that? 
BOBBY (shouting) What do you want me to say! 
Her eyes go to the gun in his hand and she stops laughing. Her calm is extraordinary, as if expecting to die. 
GRACE Well? 
For a moment, Bobby does nothing, then he slips the gun through his belt. 
BOBBY Well, nothing. We dump Jake, we split the money, then you're on your own. 
GRACE Don't leave me. I want to say with you, Bobby. 
BOBBY Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again? 
GRACE I was just baiting him! Bobby, I had to tell him that to get his guard down. Just like you told Jake you was going to kill me! 
BOBBY You lied to me all along! Lies, all lies. Your mother, your father, what story are you on now?  How come the town didn't know you was his daughter? 
GRACE (in pain) Cause my Mom slept around. A lotta men! Anybody could've been my father. But we knew. 
BOBBY (not listening) Well you got what you wanted all along by fucking me.  I wish you had told me the goddamn truth in the first place! 
GRACE (screws out) I didn't want you to know! Don't you... unnerstand? 
Bobby's got a headache now. It's too much to understand, too much talk. Too much history has taught him to doubt. 
BOBBY When you're finished with me, I'm next! I been there, baby. I been there with other cunts...sorry, not anymore. I'll take you as far as California. If we can make that. After that you're on your own. Try Mexico. With all this bread, you can live like a queen. 
GRACE I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about you? 
BOBBY I think you're a lying, back-stabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared... 
The expression on Grace's face changes as rapidly as the desert weather, a coldness passing over and through her. 
GRACE You don't know your own mind. It blocks your heart. 
Keeping a wary eye on Grace, Bobby starts hauling Jake out of the trunk. 
BOBBY Give me a hand. 
He wrestles Jake up to a sitting position. He grabs a can of beer from a warm six-pack in the trunk and shoves it into a pocket of Jake's coat. 
BOBBY Poor old Jake, a few drinks, a fight with the sheriff over his wife. And both of 'em ended up dead. 
Grace takes his boots. 
BOBBY Time to go for a walk, Jake. 
GRACE My mother died in this canyon. 
BOBBY Save the Mom routine, will ya Grace. It doesn't work with me. One, two, three... 
They lift the corpse, and with great effort, haul it towards the edge of the drop. As they pause on the way, Bobby, wary of Grace's strange coldness, tries to soften the blow of separation. 
BOBBY Look, it's not so bad we split up. It might be months before they find these guys. If at all. I mean with the mountain lions around here. Remember, if they can't find no bodies, there's no crime... (She doesn't respond.) We'll be in Phoenix by noon. Lose this car, get another one. Texas, Mexico are big countries, all that money Grace, you'll meet someone else, you know, there's a lot of hope with a $100,000... 
They lift Jake again, and move to the edge. 
GRACE Hope is a four-letter word. 
BOBBY But we all need that too. Hold him. 
He props Jake at the edge, standing, and transfers the weight onto Grace. Jake's head is on her shoulder. 
BOBBY You make a pretty couple. 
It seems he might push them both over but instead takes the gun, wipes it of his prints, and slips it through Jake's belt. 
BOBBY Won this in a poker game in Reno. God knows who it's registered to.  You shoulda been more careful, Jake. See you later. 
As he takes Jake's weight off Grace and pushes it over the drop. 
Grace watches him go, her eyes shifting to Bobby, his back momentarily to her, also watching. She moves towards him. 
Bobby turns, slips on the edge. 
BOBBY Now all we got to do is try and-- 
He feels a blur of motion, almost like a bird, and he is falling...falling, his life coming to an end. 
Grace is standing somewhere up above, briefly seen. Did she push him? He doesn't know. 
He's stunned as he falls on the rocks next to the bodies of Jake and Virgil. He screams out in sharp pain. His leg feels broken. But he is alive. 
Grace walks away, cutting it all off, deeply shaken. She must get away from the past and all these hollow men. She closes the trunk of the Mustang, gets in the driver's seat, reaches for the ignition key. Her hand fumbles for it a moment. It isn't there. 
