V FOR VENDETTA 
Written by 
Larry and Andy Wachowski 
Based on the graphic novel by Alan Moore 
FADE IN: 
In the darkness, we hear a voice, a woman's voice.  Her name is Evey. 
EVEY (V.O.) "Remember, remember, the fifth of November, the gunpowder treason and plot.  I know of now reason why the gunpowder treason should ever be forgot." 
Her voice has a strength that is metered by a calmness, a deep centered peace that we can feel. 
EVEY (V.O.) Those were almost the very first words he spoke to me and, in a way, that is where this story began, four hundred years ago, in a cellar beneath the Houses of Parliament. 
In the darkness, we find a lantern.  Guy Fawkes, a dangerous man who wears a goatee, is struggling with a wheelbarrow stacked with barrels of gunpowder. 
EVEY (V.O.) In 1605, Guy Fawkes attempted to blow up the Houses of Parliament. 
The wheelbarrow bumps over the heavy stone mortar of the cellar floor.  From the dark depths, we hear the sound of dogs. 
EVEY (V.O.) He was caught in the cellars with enough gunpowder to level most of London. 
Guy sees lanterns coming from both sides.  He tries to run as the dogs reach him first.  He grabs for his sword as dozens of pole axes pin him against the tunnel's stone wall. 
EVEY (V.O.) Sometimes I wonder where we would be if he hadn't failed.  I wonder if it would have mattered. 
In the dim pre-dawn light, Guy is led to the gallows. 
EVEY (V.O.) I suppose the answer is in the rhyme.  More than the man, what we must remember is the plot itself. 
The coarse noose of rope is snugged up to Guy's throat.  He looks into the crowd until he finds a face, a woman's face, staring up at him. 
EVEY (V.O.) For in the plot we find more than just a man, we find the idea of that man, the spirit of that man, and that is what we must never forget. 
The lever is thrown and the woman looks down, a tear falling down her face. 
EVEY (V.O.) This, then, is the story of that idea, of that spirit that began with an anarchist's plot four hundred years ago. 
Guy's body hangs in silhouette, lifeless against a red morning sun. 
FADE OUT. 
FADE IN: 
INT.  SUBURBAN HOUSE 
A young Evey sits on her father's lap, combing her Barbie's hair. 
EVEY (V.O.) I was born near the end of the millennium, the year 1997.  My father used to say that people were so afraid that the world was going to end that they were willing it to happen. 
Her father sits beside her mother on the living room couch, watching the news.  From the look on their faces, the news is bad. 
EVEY (V.O.) I don't remember much of the century's turn.  I don't remember the market crash or the plague or any of the Trafalgar riots. 
The television flickers with images of heavily armed soldiers fighting in a shelled city. 
EVEY (V.O.) I've read about them since but I don't recall how any of them impacted my life except for the fear.  They would hide it from me, like a secret between them. 
Little Evey sees her father staring at her mother.  They take hold of each other's hand, clasping them tight. 
EVEY (V.O.) But I could feel it. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
It is a new day.  People are gathered along the street as if they were waiting for a parade. 
EVEY (V.O.) Of the chaos that seemed to swallow the beginning of the 21st century, there is one thing I do remember. 
Evey holds her father's hand.  Unable to see what is coming, she can hear it. 
EVEY (V.O.) Very clearly, I can remember that sound. 
We hear them, hundreds of marching soldiers. 
EVEY (V.O.) And I remember those boots, black leather that gleamed bright in the morning sun.  I had never seen such boots.  All moving in perfect unison. 
Little Evey hides in the forest of adults, clinging to her father's leg, staring as row after row of boots march by with military precision. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
In the midst of a political rally for the emerging new party calling itself Norsefire, we find little Evey now on her father's shoulders. 
Dascombe, a young man, paces the podium, inciting the crowd. 
DASCOMBE The time has come, London, to return to a bygone age, an age of tradition, an age of values that have been disparaged and all but forgotten.  What this country needs is a leader!  A true leader to remind us of that age.  A righteous leader with the strength of his moral convictions to do what must be done.  I give you that man!  I give you our leader!  Adam Susan! 
Adam Susan rises and the crowd cheers.  Evey's father looks at her mother and again they clasp hands. 
EVEY (V.O.) It must have seemed so easy to them.  They offered such a simple deal; give up control and we will restore order. 
INT.  SUBURBAN HOUSE 
Little Evey is asleep in her bedroom. 
EVEY (V.O.) At first, the arrests were political.  Dissidents.  Radicals. Liberals. 
A loud crash of splintering wood wakes her up. 
EVEY (V.O.) When my parents were younger, they had been activists.  They had marched with Labor in the great train strike. 
The sound of heavy boots swarms through the house. 
LITTLE EVEY Mommy? 
Her bedroom door bursts open and a heavily armed soldier scoops her up. 
She is carried through the dark house which is filled with soldiers.  On the floor of the living room, she sees her parents being bound with plastic zip-ties. 
This is V. 
FATE (V.O.) And this is the voice of Fate signing off and bidding you a pleasant evening. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
Close on Evey's high heels, stumbling and awkward as she walks down a dark cobblestoned street. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
Close on V's boots walking in the opposite direction so that it seems they are walking towards each other. 
EVEY (V.O.) I don't know what brought us together that night.  I had never been to that part of Westminster but ever since I've known him, I've stopped believing in coincidence. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
Evey looks up and sees a man standing mostly in shadow. 
EVEY Excuse me?  Uh... excuse me, Mister? 
The man turns around.  It is not V. 
EVEY Would you like... uh, would you like to sleep with me? 
He smiles. 
EVEY I mean, for money. 
MAN That is the clumsiest bit of propositioning I've ever heard. 
EVEY Oh god, I'm sorry. 
MAN Is this your first time, darling? 
EVEY Yes, no, I mean for money.  But I know what you want and I'll do it. 
She presses her body to his, using her little girl eyes and her woman's mouth. 
EVEY Anything you want, mister.  Please, I need the money.  I know I'm young but I promise I know what I'm doing. 
MAN No.  You don't know what you're doing. 
He pulls out his wallet and shows her a badge.  The sight of it knocks the breath out of her. 
EVEY Christ, you're a Fingerman. 
FINGERMAN 1 Give the little lady a prize. 
FINGERMAN 2 I've got something to give her. 
Evey turns and there are more Fingermen behind her. 
FINGERMAN 1 Prostitution is a class H offense. Know what that means?  It means that we get to exercise our own judicial discretion -- 
FINGERMAN 2 And you get to swallow it. 
The Fingermen laugh. 
EVEY Oh god, please.  It's my first time.  Please don't hurt me. 
FINGERMAN 1 Gosh, fellas, look at those big innocent eyes.  What do you think? 
FINGERMAN 3 Spare the rod, spoil the child. 
Fingerman 2 laughs hard as he drops his pants. 
EVEY Oh no! 
He shoves her face first against a brick wall, lifting her dress to expose her bottom. 
EVEY Please, don't! 
FINGERMAN 3 You heard the man, sweetie.  This rod's for your own good. 
Suddenly, they are no longer alone. 
V "The multiplying villainies of nature do swarm upon him." 
FINGERMAN 3 What the hell -- 
V "And fortune, on his damned quarrel, smiling, showed like a rebel's whore." 
FINGERMAN 1 We're police officers, pal. 
FINGERMAN 4 We're with the Finger. 
FINGERMAN 3 So bugger off! 
V "Disdaining fortune with his brandished steel, which smoked with bloody execution." 
In the clenched fist of black leather, we see a flash of steel. 
FINGERMAN 1 He's got a knife! 
V attacks and at once we know this is no normal human being. A single blow sends the largest of the Fingermen flying backwards. 
But more than his strength, it is his speed. 
A gun is cocked but before the hammer falls, a knife is buried in the Fingerman's chest and -- 
Before the body falls, the knife is gone. 
It takes a handful of seconds and three bodies lay on the ground.  V turns to the last Fingerman who is struggling to pull his pants up. 
FINGERMAN 3 Jesus Christ!  Don't hurt me! 
V steps forward and he screams, bolting while holding his pants up. 
V Good evening. 
EVEY Who -- Who are you? 
Dozens of monitors fill with images from all across the city, most of them are of the damage caused by V. 
LEADER Gentlemen, I will hear your reports now.  Mr. Heyer, speak for the Eye. 
Conrad Heyer appears on one of the screens.  He is at his desk inside the command center for the Eye, the governmental organization responsible for the visual surveillance systems. 
CONRAD We have less than two minutes of usable footage, Leader.  It took the suspect less than a minute to dispatch the Finger's vice patrol. 
On an insert screen, we see grainy footage of V rescuing Evey from one of the pole-mounted cameras. 
CONRAD As you can see, the suspect's reflex speed is extraordinary.  As is his strength. 
As the last body falls, V seems to pause and looks back over his shoulder straight into the camera. 
LEADER Freeze it! 
The Leader stares at the smiling face. 
CONRAD I'm afraid the mask makes retinal identification impossible. 
LEADER Mr. Etheridge, report for the Ear! 
Bunny Etheridge appears on another screen.  Behind him, huge spooling reels of audiotape wind constantly. 
ETHERIDGE We were able to triangulate the origin of the fireworks.  We also are currently monitoring a lot of phone surveillance indicating a high percentage of conversation concerned with the explosions.  All suspect or significant transcripts are being forwarded to Mr. Almond. 
LEADER Very good.  Mr. Finch, speak for the Nose. 
Finch, no longer the same young man, stands at the site of the fireworks launch. 
FINCH Thanks to Etheridge, we found the launch for the fireworks.  These appear to be individually weighted flares and we have found traces of the same chemicals at both of the detonation sites which leads us to conclude that, despite a level of sophistication, these devices are all home-made with over the counter chemicals, making them impossible to trace.  Whoever he is, Leader, he's good. 
LEADER Thank you for that professional annotation. 
An intercom opens. 
LIEUTENANT (V.O.) Leader, Mr. Almond has arrived. 
LEADER Very good.  Gentlemen, keep me informed of any further developments.  England prevails. 
They answer in unison as Almond enters the office.  His face is harder but he has the same violent gleam in his eye. 
The Leader turns in his chair. 
LEADER Mr. Almond, do you know what this is behind me? 
ALMOND Uh... the Fate computer system, sir? 
LEADER No.  No sir.  It's more than that. This, this computer is a symbol, Mr. Almond.  A symbol of the highest attainable goal of mankind. Do you know what that goal is, Mr. Almond? 
Almond does not.  The Leader leaps from his chair while pounding the desk. 
LEADER Control, Mr. Almond!  Control!  The world around us is a changing, directionless, amoral morass and it is up to man and man alone to set things right! 
He moves around the desk at Almond. 
LEADER Without control, man is nothing more than any other stinking, sweating, brute animal.  Control, Mr. Almond.  The control that we have painstakingly built up over the last ten years.  Now, do you understand what happened last night? 
ALMOND We... lost control. 
LEADER Yes, Mr. Almond.  Last night someone did the unthinkable. Someone hurt us.  It is imperative that we act swiftly and precisely. I want that man found, Mr. Almond. I want his head or, by god, I'll have yours. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
Evey is wearing a blindfold and V leads her by her fingertips, guiding her almost as if they were dancing... 
His fingers slip free of her and she reaches out. 
EVEY Wait.  I've lost you. 
V No, you haven't. 
He is behind her and he removes the blindfold, revealing his house to her. 
EVEY Oh... 
It is a labyrinth of interconnecting underground tunnels and rooms. 
The gallery is the main room as it is filled with an amazing collection of human culture.  There is art that spans from the renaissance to the painted covers of Eerie comics, literature that ranges from Shakespeare to Spillane, philosophy from Plato to Bukowski, and a vast collection of nonfiction. 
There are movie posters everywhere and an entire wall is lined with videocassettes. 
A jukebox stands in front of an enormous vinyl and CD collection of music. 
EVEY A jukebox?  Where did you get it? 
V I saved it.  Like everything here. 
She punches a button and Billie Holiday begins to sing. 
EVEY Oh, it's beautiful.  I've never heard anything like it. 
V Of course not.  You grew up in their world.  Art is created by individuals and there are no individuals in a world where you are told what to think. 
EVEY This place is amazing. 
V You're welcome to stay. 
She stops suddenly and looks at him.  The offer is terribly exciting but it is so unlike anything she has ever done that it's almost impossible to imagine. 
EVEY Stay here... with you? 
V Yes.  If you like. 
EVEY I... I don't even know your name. 
V I don't have a name.  But you can call me V. 
EVEY V?  V... I like that. 
And she returns his smile. 
INT.  CONDUCTOR'S CAB 
The conductor hears something on the roof.  He peers up just as V swings down, smashing feet first into the cab. 
INT.  TRAIN CAR 
The brakes suddenly lock, throwing Bodyguard 2 into Prothero. 
PROTHERO Get off of me! 
A moment later, the lights are cut off and the entire train is plunged into complete darkness. 
BODYGUARD 2 What the fuck is going on? 
BODYGUARD 1 Lock the car doors. 
PROTHERO I have a lighter... somewhere... 
BODYGUARD 2 I can't find the lock -- wait.  Hey wha-- 
There is a muffled shriek followed by a sharp snap. 
BODYGUARD 1 What's happening -- 
There is another sound, like the leather slap of a boxer pounding a heavy bag, followed by the sound of the heavy bag collapsing onto the floor. 
PROTHERO I found it! 
He flicks on the lighter and, in the dim light of its flame, he sees the smiling face. 
PROTHERO Oh god. 
V sits casually, arms folded, across from Prothero.  The bodyguards lay dead on the floor. 
PROTHERO Who are you?  What do you want? Money?  Is that it? 
V just smiles. 
PROTHERO Wait, wait.  You're, you're the one that blew the Bailey. 
V nods and Prothero's eyes go wide. 
PROTHERO You're making a mistake.  I'm nobody -- 
On the floor, he sees the bodyguard's gun.  He kills the lighter and dives for it. 
In the darkness, we hear the struggle.  It ends quickly. When the lighter flicks back on, V is holding it and the gun. 
PROTHERO Oh god, what do you want? 
V I've come to offer you a choice. Commander Prothero. 
PROTHERO What -- What did you call me? 
V Commander Prothero. 
Prothero's heart begins to pound. 
V That was your title at Larkhill. You remember Larkhill, don't you, Commander? 
EXT.  LARKHILL RESETTLEMENT CAMP - FLASHBACK 
A sign reads, "Larkhill Resettlement Camp." 
V (V.O.) Where they sent the undesirables. 
A caged truck packed with minorities rolls into the gates which are topped with spools of razor wire. 
INT.  TRAIN CAR 
Prothero is sweating. 
PROTHERO I don't know what you're talking about. 
V Maybe I can help your memory. Let's see.  Larkhill opened in the summer of 2009.  You were appointed it commander.  You wore a uniform in those days.  You looked very good in it. 
INT.  LARKHILL - PROTHERO'S OFFICE - FLASHBACK 
Prothero admires his uniform in the mirror. 
V (V.O.) You were a man of many responsibilities.  You made sure Larkhill made all its quotas, especially the oven quotas even though they required an excessive amount of maintenance. 
EXT.  LARKHILL OVENS - FLASHBACK 
We see a detail of black and Indian men, shoveling mounds of black ash from a series of furnace like ovens. 
As the shovels lift, we see blackened bones and burnt skulls. 
EXT.  LARKHILL MAIN YARD - FLASHBACK 
Prothero saunters through the lines of camp prisoners. 
V (V.O.) But there was one task you took to with exceptional relish.  Remember the medical block, Commander?  I believe you called it the funny farm.  You were the one that selected the prisoners.  You hand picked each one. 
Prothero steps in front of a woman who remains beautiful despite the suffering she has endured.  Prothero smiles. 
PROTHERO Her. 
As the guards grab her, we become aware of a man that is staring at Prothero.  He is one of the prisoners but we do not see his face. 
Prothero notices the man.  He doesn't like the way the man is staring at him. 
PROTHERO You. 
INT.  TRAIN CAR 
Prothero is terrified. 
PROTHERO You!  You're him, aren't you? 
V nods. 
Finch looks at the ground. 
LEADER It is also because I know you, Finch.  I know what you are. You're a man like me.  A man who understands when they are given a job what must be done.  I understand you, Finch, and that is why I can trust you. 
He moves in close to Finch. 
LEADER This terrorist knows us, Finch. These attacks are perfectly calculated and they are divisive. He knows what he's doing, Finch. He knows us all too well. 
FINCH You think he's an insider? 
LEADER What I think is that this man must be stopped.  Stopped at all costs and no one, I repeat, no one is to be placed above suspicion.  Do I make myself clear? 
FINCH Perfectly. 
LEADER England prevails, Mr. Finch. 
FINCH England prevails. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
Evey, alone in the Shadow Gallery, stares up at the inscription above the crooked staircase. 
EVEY V, v, v, v, v. 
V I hear your summons, my lady.  And obey. 
She jumps, V suddenly appearing behind her. 
EVEY Oh, V, you scared me. 
She turns back to the carving. 
EVEY I was reading the inscription. What is it? 
V A Latin quotation.  A motto.  "Vi veri veniversum vivus vici."  "By the power of truth, I, while living, have conquered the universe." 
She nods. 
EVEY Yes, I suppose you have.  This place is the only universe I have right now. 
V Does that bother you? 
EVEY I don't know.  I'm so grateful to you -- I just feel I should help you, you know, the way you're helping me.  I mean, that's the deal, isn't it? 
V drifts over to the big old Wurlitzer, fingers scanning the song list. 
V No deals, Evey.  Not unless you want them. 
She looks up at the inscription as an old blues song begins to play. 
EVEY I think I do.  Part of me wants to stay here forever and never have to face what's going on outside.  But that's not right.  Is it?  That's not taking responsibility.  Not conquering my universe. 
She turns to him. 
EVEY I want to help you, V.  I want to do something.  Can we make a deal? 
V Yes.  I think we can make a deal if you like.  I think I know a way you could help me very soon indeed. 
Evey smiles nervously. 
EVEY Good.  That's that, then. 
The blues song curls in the air around them like a heavy incense. 
EVEY V, you said that Latin thing was a quote.  Who said it? 
V Nobody you'd have heard of.  A German gentleman named Dr. John Faust. 
He spins her. 
V He made a deal too. 
EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY 
The church doors have opened with the flow of parishioners as the final mass of the day has ended. 
The tide slowly pours out onto the sidewalk, separating around the clumps of people that conglomerate to network and gossip. 
Church bells toll in the orange dusk above them. 
Helen Heyer, a woman whose spite and guile are hidden behind her looks and clothes she drapes them with, charges into the gossipers, her trophy husband in tow, a timid looking man that we recognize as Conrad Heyer. 
CONRAD Hello, Rosemary.  Derek, how -- 
Helen's head snaps over at the mention of the name. 
HELEN Derek! 
She pushes past Conrad, giving Derek Almond an exuberant kiss on both cheeks. 
HELEN Darling, how are you?  Hello, Rosemary. 
Always behind her husband, Rosemary Almond smiles nervously as she straightens her drab church dress. 
ROSEMARY Hello. 
DEREK It's so good to see you.  Since this bloody terrorist business, the old man has me literally chained to the office. 
Helen pouts at him. 
HELEN Oh, you poor dear. 
Derek taps the bottom of his cigarette box, drawing one with his lips. 
DEREK It comes with the job.  How are things in the Eye, Conrad? 
CONRAD Well, we've been working some bugs out of the new Mark IX fiber optic network, actually -- 
HELEN Oh, Conrad, don't be such a bloody bore.  Do tell us about the terrorist, Derek.  Is it true he blew up Big Ben and the old Bailey? 
DEREK I'm afraid so.  We're dealing with a pathological psychotic in the most extreme case.  We'll catch him though.  I promise. 
The guards look out into the night, fear suddenly gripping their faces. 
V emerges demonically through the parting veils of fog, the white smiling mask bobbing eerily up and down as he rushes them. 
A cigarette drops from the first guard's mouth, red embers exploding when it hits the wet cement. 
Close as the two guards claw for their arms and the white hot flash of V's knives -- 
That slice like talons. 
The two men crumple to the ground, clutching their gaping, gurgling wounds.  A whisper.  V sprints into the courtyard. 
INT.  BISHOP'S BEDROOM 
Evey grabs a metal table lamp and swings it down on the Bishop's head.  There is a shuddering clank and he collapses to the floor. 
LILLIMAN You -- You filthy whore! 
His blood speckles the white bearskin throw rug as the Bishop slowly rises after the retreating Evey. 
LILLIMAN I'll kill you, you fucking sow. 
He charges after her but freezes dead in his tracks as V swings around the corner in front of him. 
LILLIMAN What's this?  Who -- 
V Please allow me to introduce myself... 
V bows. 
V I'm a man of wealth and taste. 
LILLIMAN Dennis? 
Instantly, the point of one of V's knives is against the Bishop's throat.  V presses a finger to his frozen smile. 
V Shh.  It isn't polite to disturb the dead on their journey. 
Evey watches from around the corner. 
V A courtesy I'll most respectfully extend to his grace. 
EVEY V? 
Lilliman swallows audibly. 
EVEY V, what are you doing? 
V Vi veri veniversum vivus vici, Evey. 
Evey looks down at the knives on his belt, dripping blood. 
EVEY Oh no. 
She begins backing to the door. 
EVEY You can't kill him! 
V Death has followed his grace the whole of his career.  Is it any coincidence it has finally followed him here? 
EVEY Oh god, V.  I can't -- I can't -- 
V turns back to Lilliman as Evey runs. 
V Let us pray. 
EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NIGHT 
Evey sprints past the dead guards at the man gate and into the fog. 
INT.  THE EAR 
A cramped control room that looks like something between a radio and television switching room, though it does not broadcast.  It receives. 
Two operators sit at the main substation as the sounds of lovemaking come over the speakers.  The moans are stifled and low, however, as if they were afraid someone was listening. 
OPERATOR 1 Bloody hell.  Doesn't anybody fuck with feeling anymore? 
Operator 2 does not look at him, scrolling through an intricate city map on his computer. 
OPERATOR 2 Hey, it's Sunday.  Children's hour over at the Abbey. 
OPERATOR 1 Let's see what that filthy old pervert is up to. 
Operator 1 punches in some coordinates and the sound over the speakers changes to a garbled fart of noise.  Two voices drown beneath a cacophony of classical music. 
OPERATOR 1 What the -- 
He tries to dial out the background and suddenly the voices rise clearly above the din. 
VOICE 1 ... And I saw a black shape against the flames.  Oh god.  It's you. The man from room five.  You've come -- 
VOICE 2 To collect what's mine. 
VOICE 1 I beg you!  I don't want to die! Please have mercy! 
The two men look at each other, Operator 1 lunging for a red phone. 
OPERATOR 1 Get me the Finger.  This is an emergency! 
EXT.  BISHOP'S QUARTERS - NIGHT 
Close on a stain of white vomit and blood on the thick pile of a Persian rug.  It is encircled in police chalk. 
Pull back to reveal the chalk outline where the body of Bishop Lilliman was found.  The circled bloodstain floats above the head like the last word balloon of a crude comic strip character. 
The Bishop's quarters is slowly being picked over by a forensic team from the Nose.  A photographer's flash bursts against a painted "V" on the wall near the body outline. 
At the window, Finch chews on his pipe, staring at a plastic evidence bag that contains a single violet carson rose. 
DOMINIC No prints yet, sir.  Just like Prothero. 
Finch starts it again and this time the tape is very fuzzy. 
FINCH What is it? 
DOMINIC 23rd Psalm. 
We recognize some of the words though muted and crackly. 
TAPE (V.O.) Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death... 
DOMINIC It goes on like that for a while. Fairly incoherent except we could make out a few words in this part. Transubstantiation. 
Finch nods, understanding. 
DOMINIC That miracle business when the wafer transform into the body of Christ. 
FINCH He made him eat a host. 
DOMINIC Yes, listen to this part. 
The tape becomes somewhat clearer as the music rests. 
TAPE (V.O.) ... And at the moment this enters your mouth it becomes the flesh of the savior?  Yes... please... And whatever it is made of now it will become the body of Christ?  Yes... yes... 
They eye each other. 
TAPE (V.O.) I want you to swallow it. 
DOMINIC There's a couple of funny human noises... 
FINCH And then just Beethoven's fifth. 
He shuts off the tape. 
FINCH We have got the initial path report back.  The host was full of cyanide. 
Finch picks up the bag with the violet carson. 
FINCH And do you know what? 
He rises, sliding into his jacket. 
FINCH When it reached his abdomen, it was still cyanide. 
INT.  MORGUE 
Close on the heavy stitching of a "Y" incision sewn into the chest of a corpse.  It is one of the Bishop's guards. 
DELIA Do you have a motive? 
Finch is standing next to the cadaver gurney with the coroner, Delia Surridge.  She is a serious woman, hair wound tight behind her head in a severe bun. 
DELIA I mean, was anything taken? 
She fills the dead man's head with cotton and replaces the top of his skull. 
FINCH Just lives. 
Pulling at the man's scalp, she stretches it over the replaced skull piece. 
FINCH I know it's too early for your profile but do you have any initial impressions? 
DELIA Well... 
She points at a jagged puncture wound at the base of the man's sternum with a ball point pen. 
DELIA He's incredibly powerful.  This man's sternum was split like dry wood from the base all the way up to the manubrium. 
Finch peers into the hole. 
DELIA And he's resourceful.  On that table behind you is a breakdown of all the chemicals found in Prothero's blood stream. 
Finch hefts the pile of computer paper. 
FINCH Bloody hell. 
DELIA There were hundreds of different chemicals in him.  From trinitrotoluene to estrogen to motor oil. 
He flips through the document, biting into the wooden end of his pipe. 
FINCH Perhaps Fate will make something more of all this.  I certainly can't. 
DELIA The Leader finally authorized an uplink for you?  He must be getting nervous. 
FINCH Quite.  Government directed terrorism never sews healthy ideas into the public.  Oh, that reminds me. 
Finch pulls the evidence bag from his pocket. 
FINCH Can you tell us anything about this? 
Delia's eyes lock onto the violet carson. 
FINCH We found one in the carriage with Prothero and this one in the Bishop's quarters.  A violet carson. 
He hands it to her. 
FINCH I heard that strain had died off. Thought a botanist might shed some light on it.  Delia? 
Delia, riveted to the rose, suddenly looks up to him. 
DELIA Yes -- Yes, of course. 
FINCH Magic.  I'll drop by tomorrow then. 
He turns, leaving her with the rose. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
V relaxes with a book in an overstuffed reading chair, a violet carson rose resting on a table next to him.  He begins to read a passage aloud. 
V "There is more behind and inside of V than any of us had suspected. Not who, but what: what is she?" 
He smiles. 
DEREK Bang. 
Click.  He never loaded it. 
There is an awkward moment of silence, then V moves -- 
Cloak opening, filling the hall like a black tidal wave that envelopes Derek.  He chokes a scream as V embraces him, slipping a knife above his floating rib. 
Derek Almond sputters as he claws at V's mask. 
DEREK Who -- Who are you? 
V Yes, look.  Look and tell me what you see. 
He rips V's mask off as V thrusts the knife in deeper. 
Derek's eyes widen in horror as his life pours out the knife wound. 
DEREK Horrible!  God, it's horrible! 
V jerks his blade free, letting Derek slip to the ground. 
EXT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME 
Finch's car bucks up onto the sidewalk. 
Finch and Dominic tear out of the car and barrel into the house. 
INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME 
At the top of the stairs, they find the dead Derek.  Finch rushes past him for the bedroom. 
FINCH Delia? 
Inside, he finds her.  Her eyes fixed, cold, and dead, a single violet carson in her lap. 
FINCH Get an ambulance. 
EXT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME 
Evey rushes around a corner to see a crime scene bathed in siren light.  She pushes up to the police barricade as the M.E.'s load a draped body into their van. 
EVEY Oh no... V? 
She tries to angle around to get a better look when a man in a brown overcoat grabs her from behind and drags her into the alley. 
INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S BEDROOM 
From the corner of the room, Finch sits, watching as the M.E.'s wheel out Delia's body. 
Dominic squeezes past the gurney and crosses toward Finch. 
DOMINIC I'm sorry, sir.  You knew the doctor pretty well? 
Finch nods. 
DOMINIC We found this on her bureau, sir. It's Dr. Surridge's journal.  It covers her years at Larkhill.  It might contain the whole story. 
Dominic searches for something more to say when Finch does not answer. 
After a moment, Finch looks at the book in Dominic's hand, then takes it, leafing through the pages.  They flip by, a breathy sigh, rising to a cold wind. 
DELIA (V.O.) May 23rd... 
INT.  LARKHILL MEDICAL RESEARCH BLOCK - DAY - FLASHBACK 
A younger Dr. Surridge, one by one, administers a series of injections to her research stock. 
DELIA (V.O.) Prothero has hand picked my subjects.  Four dozen of them, none of which will be any use to me if I don't get to work soon. 
She finishes an injection, Prothero encouraging the next subject.  We recognize her as the woman Prothero pointed at. 
DELIA (V.O.) They're so weak and pathetic I find myself hating them. 
Delia prepares the next dose, a sour look on her face. 
DELIA (V.O.) They don't fight or struggle.  Just stare at you with weak eyes. 
PROTHERO Next. 
INT.  LARKHILL OVENS - DAY - FLASHBACK 
Two inmate orderlies are hefting sacked cadavers from a cart into an incinerator. 
DELIA (V.O.) June 9th: Of the original four dozen, over 75% are now deceased. Strangely, no clear patterns have emerged as of yet. 
Another body thuds onto the pile. 
DELIA (V.O.) Batch 5 seems to have no common discernible effect on any specific group though the men seem slightly more resilient than the women. 
When it is full, they move to the next door until the cart is empty. 
DELIA (V.O.) I'm hoping the survivors will provide more answers or my time here will have gone to waste. 
Red heat suddenly glows from the oven vents as the orderly throws a series of switches. 
INT.  LARKHILL MEDICAL RESEARCH BLOCK - DAY - FLASHBACK 
Dr. Surridge moves down the drab aseptic hallway accompanied by an armed guard.  Roman numerals on the doors to each cell ascend to five. 
DELIA (V.O.) June 18: And only five left now. Two men and three women.  Which tends to contradict my entry on the 9th. 
She pauses at room five. 
DELIA (V.O.) The man in room five is a fascinating case. 
She looks through the small chicken wire glass window in the door. 
DELIA (V.O.) Physically, there doesn't seem to be anything wrong with him.  No cellular anomalies, nothing. 
Rossiter wrenches back and Evey sucks hard for air, coughing out water. 
INTERROGATOR Now Miss Hammond, let us review the facts. 
Evey stares at him, eyes red, heart pounding in her ears. 
INTERROGATOR You work for codename V.  Codename V killed Delia Surridge and then Derek Almond with your help and that is why you were found outside her home. 
Evey begins to shake her head, water sluicing off her thin face. 
INTERROGATOR Isn't that what happened, Miss Hammond? 
EVEY No.  No, that isn't true -- 
INTERROGATOR Oh dear, Rossiter? 
Rossiter grabs Evey's neck -- 
EVEY No, wait! 
Plunging her head into the bowl.  Water fills Evey's nose and ears. 
VALERIE (V.O.) London.  I was happy in London. 
INT.  THEATRE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
The packed house watches as a Prince kneels before a woman's bare foot with a slipper of glass. 
VALERIE (V.O.) I played Dandini in Cinderella. 
The woman glances into the dark sea of faces. 
VALERIE (V.O.) The world was strange and rustling with invisible crowds behind the hot lights and all that breathless glamour. 
EXT.  MEADOW - DAY - FLASHBACK 
Two women weep in each other's arms, embracing in a perfect knee high meadow. 
VALERIE (V.O.) Work improved.  I got small film roles, then bigger ones. 
The blonde woman brushes away a tear from the other's cheek. 
VALERIE (V.O.) In 2006, I starred in "The Salt Flats."  That's where I met Ruth. We fell in love. 
We pull back and see we are on location for a movie and the two women are being filmed. 
INT.  CONDO - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
Ruth and Valerie sit on the couch watching television.  On the table behind them is a bouquet of violet carson roses. 
VALERIE (V.O.) Every Valentine's Day she sent me roses and, oh god, we had so much. Those were the best three years of my life. 
The two women stare at the newscast in tears, the sound of marching coming from the set's speakers. 
VALERIE (V.O.) In 2010, they came. 
EXT.  LONDON STREET - DAY - FLASHBACK 
The sound of marching explodes as columns of men in brown uniforms and jack boots fill the streets. 
VALERIE (V.O.) And after that there were no more roses... 
INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM 
Rossiter presses his elbow onto Evey's neck, holding her submerged. 
VALERIE (V.O.) Not for anybody. 
Rossiter lets Evey up.  Her red burnt lungs gulp at the air. 
VALERIE (V.O.) After the takeover, they started rounding up the gays.  They took Ruth while she was out looking for food. 
Evey blinks hard, black fireworks exploding in her eyes. 
VALERIE (V.O.) Why are they so frightened of us? 
She wheezes, on the edge of unconsciousness. 
VALERIE (V.O.) They burned her face with cigarettes and made her give them my name.  She signed a statement saying I'd seduced her. 
The interrogator's voice melts into a slag heap of sound with the hot, rhythmic pounding in her ears. 
VALERIE (V.O.) I didn't blame her.  God, I loved her but I didn't blame her. 
Rossiter uncuffs Evey, slipping the black bag over her head. 
VALERIE (V.O.) But she did. 
Evey's knees buckle as he forces her to stand. 
VALERIE (V.O.) She killed herself in her cell. She couldn't live with betraying me, with giving up that last inch. Oh, Ruth. 
Evey weaves down the hall.  Rossiter shoving her from behind. 
VALERIE (V.O.) They came for me.  They shaved off my hair.  They held my head down a toilet and told lesbian jokes. They brought me here and pumped me full of chemicals. 
The cell door swings open. 
VALERIE (V.O.) I can't feel my tongue.  I can't speak. 
Rossiter yanks the hood from her head and pushes her in. 
VALERIE (V.O.) It is strange that my life should end in such a terrible place but for three years I had roses and apologized to nobody. 
The iron door slams shut, lock ringing in the stale air. 
VALERIE (V.O.) I shall die here.  Every inch of me shall perish... 
Evey rolls to her knees. 
VALERIE (V.O.) Except one. 
EVEY You... 
Her mouth hangs open. 
EVEY You did this... to me. 
Evey's rail thin figure begins to shake. 
EVEY You did this to me! 
She stumbles against the wall, unable to support herself. 
EVEY You -- You hit me and -- and cut my hair.  It was you.  It was just you all this time. 
She doubles over, covering her face as she bursts into tears. 
EVEY You tortured me.  You tortured me -- 
Evey looks up at him, body shivering as he quietly glides toward her. 
EVEY Oh god, why? 
V Because I love you, Evey.  Because I wanted to set you free. 
EVEY Love? 
A look of horror twists her starved face. 
EVEY Set me free?  Don't you realize? 
Slender fingers ball into fists. 
EVEY Don't you realize what you did to me?  You nearly drove me mad! 
Disgust and anger light up her eyes. 
EVEY I hate you. 
Her little, wiry body coils tight as she circles him. 
EVEY I hate you!  Set me free?  You put me in a prison to set me free?! 
V You were already in a prison. You've been in a prison all your life. 
EVEY Shut up!  I don't want to hear it. I wasn't in a prison.  I was happy! I was happy here -- 
V Happiness is the most insidious prison of all, Evey. 
EVEY That's warped!  That's evil and it's wrong!  What gives you the right to judge?  Who are you to say what's not good enough?! 
V You were born in a prison, Evey.  I didn't put you there.  I just showed you the bars.  You've been in a prison so long, you no longer believe there's an outside world. 
She wheels away from him, covering her ears, trying to get away from his voice. 
EVEY Shut up!  You're mad!  I don't want to hear it! 
V That's because you're afraid, Evey. You're afraid because you can feel freedom closing in on you.  You're afraid because freedom is terrifying. 
Evey falls, stumbling through the labyrinth of the Shadow Gallery. 
EVEY I can't feel anything!  There's nothing left to feel!  Don't you understand? 
V Don't back away from it, Evey. Part of you understands the truth even as part pretends not to. 
She collapses, head pounding. 
V Woman, this is the most important moment in your life.  Don't run from it. 
EVEY I don't know what -- Oh god -- I can't breathe -- 
V couches next to her. 
V Good.  You're almost there.  Go closer.  Feel the shape of it. 
EVEY What are you doing to me?  I can't breathe -- 
V You were in a cell.  They offered you a choice between the death of your principles and the death of your body. 
He cradles her as she hyperventilates, tears streaming down her face. 
EVEY I feel -- I feel like I'm going to burst. 
V You said you'd rather die.  You faced the fear of your own death and you were calm.  Try to feel now what you felt then. 
EVEY Oh god -- I felt -- 
The mask hovers over her. 
EVEY Like an angel -- 
He squeezes her shuddering body. 
EVEY Oh god, V, I'm so scared.  What's happening to me? 
V The door of the cage is open, Evey. All that you feel is the wind from outside.  Don't be afraid. 
Gently, he lifts her. 
V Try to walk.  The lift will take us to the roof. 
EVEY The roof?  Outside? 
He helps her to an open elevator. 
EVEY I -- I don't want to be blindfolded. 
V No, Evey.  No more blindfolds. 
The cage in the elevator rattles shut. 
EXT.  ROOF - NIGHT 
DASCOMBE For god's sake, Adam, it's a stupid variety show. 
LEADER Mr. Creedy, I want the producers, writers, and actors of that "stupid variety show" arrested and charged with sedition. 
CREEDY Yes, sir. 
DASCOMBE You can't be serious -- 
LEADER Push me, Roger, push me and you'll find out how serious I am. 
He stares each of them to silence. 
LEADER This, this V is still out there.  I can feel him like a sickness worming its way into the hearts and minds of the public.  Something must be done, and done quickly, to exorcise this demon for the very soul of this country is at stake. 
He pauses. 
LEADER That is why I am compelled to give each and every one of you notice that if by the fifth of November you are still giving me nothing more than excuses, I will have to revoke your party status and terminate your positions. 
Everyone is stunned. 
LEADER Mr. Creedy, I will speak with you in private.  The rest of you are dismissed.  England prevails. 
INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS 
The Leader stands at the window. 
LEADER Mr. Creedy, as the new head of the Finger, you are the most important member of my cabinet. 
CREEDY I, uh, appreciate your faith in me. 
LEADER Your predecessor, Mr. Almond, was a good man, a man who understood what strength in unity meant, a man who, above all, loved his country.  I need to know if you are such a man. 
His eyes bore into him. 
LEADER Do you love your country, Mr. Creedy? 
EXT.  ALLEYWAY 
A police car is parked in a dark alley.  It is raining and the windows of the car are completely steamed. 
CREEDY Oh god, yes! 
He is sweating, his knuckles white as he squeezes the steering wheel, panting. 
We hear a noise like a very wet kiss and then a woman's voice. 
HELEN "The most important member of my cabinet."  Yes it is, isn't it, dear? 
Helen lifts her head out of his lap.  Her lipstick is smeared about her mouth. 
CREEDY Oh, don't stop. 
HELEN I stop when you stop.  What did he say next? 
CREEDY I can't -- 
She whispers in his ear while playing with his lap. 
HELEN Come on, Peter, what are you afraid of?  Almond used to tell me everything and you're twice the man he was. 
CREEDY He asked me... if I loved my country. 
HELEN Oh yes, I can tell you do love your country, almost as much as you love this... 
She lowers her head into this lap. 
CREEDY Oh god... 
HELEN Go on. 
CREEDY Then he asked me to do something... oh, oh... 
HELEN What? 
CREEDY Helen, I can't.  I can't tell you. 
Helen lifts her head. 
HELEN He told you to frame someone as the terrorist. 
CREEDY My god?!  How did you know that? 
HELEN I know Adam Susan.  Now who was it? 
CREEDY No way.  I can't tell you that. 
HELEN Yes you can, honey.  You can and you will.  You have to trust me, love.  We're going to help each other. 
CREEDY Helen, please. 
HELEN Look at that face.  You see? You're just bursting to tell me. 
Her head drops back down.  Creedy moans. 
HELEN Now who was it? 
CREEDY It was... Fi... Fi... FINCH! 
The name seems to orgasm from his mouth. 
INT.  FINCH'S APARTMENT 
Finch sits alone in his modest apartment, reading a book. The book is Koesterler's, "The Roots of Coincidence." 
An old CD player is playing music, a Bach piano concerto. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
V is playing the exact same concerto on his piano, his gloved fingers gracefully flitting across the keys. 
Evey enters the gallery.  Her hair has grown out but is still short.  She projects a kind of strength that comes from a deep inner peace. 
V I just thought I might ask them to turn it on for me. 
INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE 
The Leader sits bathed in the flickering images of the Fate computer. 
LEADER Yes, Mr. Creedy? 
CREEDY Everything's set, sir.  No worries. 
LEADER When? 
CREEDY Tonight. 
On one of the screens, a television program has just begun. 
ANNOUNCER Tonight on Tales from the Bible, a story of treachery and betrayal from the Book of Daniel. 
We cut from that screen to another screen -- 
INT.  JORDAN TOWER - CONTROL BOOTH 
The television studio where Roger Dascombe surveys a large bank of monitors filled with the images of typically vapid television entertainment. 
DASCOMBE All of London's waiting.  Ready, two.  And here we go -- 
A player locks on as a recorded program begins.  We move in as the logo slashes across the screen: Storm Saxon. 
ANNOUNCER Tonight, England's greatest hero repels the forces of darkness in a brand new episode. 
We pull back from the show's opening teaser and find ourselves looking at a small television. 
INT.  JORDAN TOWER 
In the delivery bay at the back of Jordan tower, five security guards are riveted to the heroic actions of Storm Saxon. 
HEIDI Oh, Storm.  Save me!  Save me! 
STORM You mongrel trash, if you harm her! 
MONGREL TRASH Look out, de white debil has a laser lugar! 
Behind them, a shadowy figure in a cloak and tall hat enters the loading bay. 
GUARD Hey, what the -- ? 
They all turn and find a smiling V. 
They go for their weapons.  V goes for them.  It is brutal and quick, knives slicing in bloody arcs, bodies kicked and thrown with superhuman power. 
The TV crashes to the ground and we move in at it as Storm Saxon stands triumphant beside his buxom lass. 
HEIDI Oh Storm, hold me.  Hold me tight. 
We pull back on another television screen inside -- 
INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE 
Dominic is chewing on a hamburger, engrossed in Storm Saxon. Across the room, Finch is reading the "Roots of Coincidence." 
FINCH I don't know how you stand that tripe. 
Dominic answers with a mouthful of cheeseburger. 
DOMINIC Es gooh. 
Finch shakes his head, reaching for his pipe.  He realizes he is out of tobacco.  He slides open the bottom desk drawer and his eyes almost pop out of his head. 
He stares into the drawer like someone staring at his own tombstone. 
DOMINIC Finch?  Finch, what's wrong? 
Slowly, he lifts something from the drawer.  On his desk, he lays out several knives, a cloak, a hat, and a smiling mask. 
DOMINIC What the hell? 
Finch lifts the mask and almost has to laugh. 
FINCH Don't you see, Dominic? 
He puts the mask to his face. 
FINCH I'm V. 
INT.  JORDAN TOWER 
V emerges from an elevator and immediately attacks several more guards.  A surveillance camera watches as V steps over their slumped, broken bodies. 
INT.  CONTROL CENTER 
The security guard sees V on the monitor coming directly down the hall. 
GUARD Bloody hell! 
He grabs the machine gun, aiming it just as V kicks open the door. 
GUARD Freeze! 
V stops.  At least five guards have trained their weapons on him.  He is surrounded. 
Slowly, he lifts his arms as though surrendering.  His cloak opens, revealing enough TNT to level the entire building.  In his hand is the plunger detonator. 
GUARD Fuck all. 
V nods. 
INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE 
The door bursts open as Creedy and a group of heavily armed Fingermen muscle in. 
DOMINIC Creedy?  What the hell's going on? 
EXT.  TELEVISION STORE - NIGHT 
No one is watching. 
LEADER What we have endured this long year was no accident, no mere coincidence.  This was not a simple act of terror conducted by a singular madman.  No, this was a test. 
INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER 
A drunk struggles up onto his bar stool blocking the TV. 
LEADER It was not me, nor the Party, nor the government that was threatened this year.  It was our beliefs. Our faith.  I believe that God himself bore witness to our struggle and like Job I believe that we have been vindicated. 
The drunk raises his glass. 
DRUNK Remember fifth of November! 
The bar cheers. 
INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE 
The Leader reaches for his Bible. 
LEADER How do I know this?  Let me read to you where I found the answer, where I so often find the answer.  In the Scripture.  Revelations. 
EXT.  STREET CORNER - NIGHT 
The megaphones blast the Leader's voice. 
LEADER (V.O.) "If any man have an ear, let him hear." 
INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE 
There are stacks of printout everywhere. 
LEADER (V.O.) "He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity; he that killeth with the sword shall be killed with the sword.  Here is the patience and faith of the Saints." 
Finch stops reading, listening to the radio. 
LEADER (V.O.) "And I beheld another beast coming out of the Earth; and he had two horns like a lamb and he spake as a dragon." 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
Another radio crackles with the Leader's voice. 
LEADER (V.O.) "And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from Heaven on the Earth in the sight of men." 
V nods, almost laughing as Evey enters the gallery. 
LEADER (V.O.) "And he deceiveth them that dwell on the Earth by the means of those miracles which he had the power to do --" 
EVEY Oh, V, turn it off, please. 
V Of course, my dear. 
He reaches over and changes the frequency.  We hear voices, hushed and secret but we recognize them. 
CREEDY (V.O.) But how does he know? 
HELEN (V.O.) I don't know.  All I know is he does... And I know what he wants. 
The voices are labored, punctuated by gasps and moans. 
EVEY What is that, V? 
V That, Evey, is what I have been waiting for. 
CREEDY (V.O.) Do you know what I want?  I want you just like this... Bent over that black leather chair... 
We are pulled by the radio into -- 
INT.  CREEDY'S BEDROOM 
Where we see a tiny microphone hidden in the ceiling light above the bed. 
Helen moans as we drift down, glimpsing Helen, her arms reaching for the edges of the bed, her back arching up towards Creedy, behind her, smiling. 
CREEDY What about Conrad? 
HELEN I told you, I'll handle Conrad and V will take care of Susan.  The mob will take care of the guard and then... You can use the Finger to take over. 
CREEDY Use the Finger?  You mean like this? 
He inserts a finger into her. 
HELEN Oh... oh... that is vulgar... 
CREEDY But you like it? 
HELEN Yes, oh yes, oh you're a pig, Peter... 
CREEDY That I am, misses.  But I'm the pig that's gonna be running this country. 
That sends a shiver through Helen's body. 
HELEN Yes and I'm... I'm going to be Eva... Oh Eva... 
Her eyes close and her fists knot the sheets. 
HELEN "Don't cry for me Argen... oh Argen... Argen... tina! 
The word is almost lost in her orgasm. 
EXT.  LONDON 
The sun rises over London.  It is the morning of the fourth. 
INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE 
Finch looks through the blinds at the morning sun.  He has been up all night.  He checks his watch: 6:00am. 
FINCH Eighteen hours. 
HELEN The terrorist. 
LEADER The terrorist is dead. 
HELEN Oh, how I wanted to believe it, Leader, but I know it's not true. 
LEADER How? 
HELEN Because I know who the terrorist is. 
INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE 
Conrad is alone with Fate.  He glances about nervously, moving closer and closer.  His fingers reach out and graze the main keyboard.  Taking a deep breath, he turns and begins to type. 
INT.  PRIVATE QUARTERS 
The Leader takes hold of Helen by her shoulders. 
LEADER Who?  Who is it, woman? 
HELEN It's Conrad, Leader.  Conrad.  My husband is the terrorist. 
LEADER What?! 
INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE 
Conrad accesses the department of water and power.  He finds the correct file and begins rerouting power to a once dead system. 
INT.  V'S TRAIN STATION 
A hanging light suddenly sizzles to life.  V looks up, smiling. 
INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS 
The Leader stares hard at Helen. 
LEADER How do you know? 
HELEN I saw him, Leader.  In the middle of the night.  I heard something. I went to the landing and that's when I saw it. 
She clutches him. 
HELEN That mask.  That hideous smiling mask. 
LEADER But how did you know it was Heyer? 
HELEN I know, Leader.  I know the way a woman knows. 
LEADER But you have no proof? 
HELEN Proof? 
LEADER Yes, proof?  This is an extremely delicate situation, Mrs. Heyer.  It has been reported that the terrorist is dead.  It would be a catastrophe to arrest a man now without concrete, conclusive proof. Do you have any evidence at all? 
Tears well up in Helen's eyes as she shakes her head. 
LEADER But if you're right, if Heyer is indeed the terrorist... 
His eyes fly wide and he spins away from her, throwing open the door. 
HELEN Leader!  Wait! 
INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE 
Conrad sits calmly across the room. 
CONRAD Is everything all right?  Helen? 
LEADER Yes, Mr. Heyer, your wife has done her duty to her country. 
He turns to Helen. 
LEADER Don't worry, Mrs. Heyer.  You will be taken care of.  I will launch an immediate investigation and I promise, you will be the first to know when an arrest will be made. 
CONRAD Investigation of what? 
LEADER Subversion, Mr. Heyer.  Your wife was privy to the dialogue of subversives.  That's all you need to know at this time.  Lieutenant! 
The Lieutenant appears almost instantly. 
LEADER The Heyers are leaving.  I need to see Mr. Creedy at once. 
Helen looks up at the Leader, a smile hidden near the corners of her perfect red lips. 
HELEN Thank you, sir. 
The Leader nods. 
INT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING 
Helen and Conrad get out of the elevator, standing beneath the rows of new party flags that line the lobby. 
HELEN I want you to go straight to your office and wait for me to call. When I do, I want you to come immediately home.  Understood? 
CONRAD Yes, Helen. 
She embraces him, pressing her body against his. 
HELEN Oh, Conrad, I'm so proud of you. 
CONRAD I did it, Helen.  I did it, didn't I? 
HELEN Tonight, Conrad. 
CONRAD Tonight. 
HELEN I promise you will never forget tonight. 
She almost kisses him. 
HELEN Goodbye, Conrad. 
GUARD But if Mr. Finch is right -- 
LEADER I am sick to death of this terrorist being everywhere and nowhere!  I will judge whether Mr. Finch is right and I will judge it with my own eyes!  Do I make myself clear, Captain? 
CAPTAIN Sir, yes, sir! 
Finch is suddenly overwhelmed by a feeling that is common to chess players.  It is the disturbing sense that you have just done exactly what your opponent wanted. 
LEADER Is there a problem, Mr. Finch? 
FINCH No... no sir. 
LEADER Good.  Captain, mobilize your men. 
CAPTAIN Sir, yes, sir. 
LEADER We'll find this bloody bastard and we will finish him. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
Evey sits in the gallery, reading Pynchon's "V" just as V had done.  She suddenly feels V watching her. 
EVEY V? 
V Yes. 
Evey smiles as V steps out of the shadows. 
EVEY V, what's going to happen? 
V Change, Evey.  That's all.  Just change. 
EVEY Is it going to be violent? 
V Yes, I suppose it will. 
INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE 
Creedy empties a bottom drawer, making room to hide the costume.  As he does, the closet door behind him slowly creeps open. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
V stands at the jukebox. 
EVEY But why?  Why must is be violent? 
V Because, Evey, that is the nature of change.  She is a temperamental creature that appears in earnest rarely but, when she does, she will wear one of two faces.  The first face is the destroyer.  It is lamentable but all true change begins with death. 
INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE 
A dark figure stands over Creedy.  The hammer raises, a slash of silver against the velvety darkness. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
V punches a button on the jukebox just as -- 
INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE 
The hammer falls with a sickening soft crunch. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
The song begins to play; a melancholy song that says goodbye to love. 
INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE 
Blood pours down Creedy's snarling face, he snatches one of V's knives as another hammer blow cracks through his collar bone. 
He screams, lunging at Conrad. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
V listens to the song, the smiling eyes somehow knowing. 
INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE 
The hammer falls again and again until the metal head is slick with blood and meat. 
Conrad stumbles back, dropping the hammer.  He looks down at the hilt of the knife protruding from his stomach.  He yanks it out and holds V's knife which is bright red with his own blood. 
He collapses to the floor. 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
The song continues. 
EVEY What is the other face, V? 
V The other face?  She is the true face of change.  The face of the creator.  She is the one that remakes the world.  Evey? 
EVEY Yes, V? 
V May I ask you for a favor? 
EVEY Of course. 
V It is a small thing but it would mean a great deal to me. 
EVEY Tell me. 
V I've never danced before.  I've thought about it many times, here in this room, listening to the music.  But I've always been alone. 
Evey smiles and crosses to him. 
EVEY It would be my pleasure. 
He opens his arms and she steps into them.  They dance, standing very close, his gloved hand holding tightly to hers, her smile against his. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
Dozens of military vehicles swarm around the entrance to Victoria Station while heavily armed men pour through the gates of the underground. 
LEADER Captain!  Captain, where are your men? 
The station fills with the sound of boots running wildly away. 
LEADER Goddammit, I will not tolerate this insubordination!  I want those deserters shot, Captain. 
Finch slowly draws back away from the Leader. 
LEADER Shot on sight! 
The few men on the platform are soon the only men left. 
CAPTAIN You!  You!  Point position.  We're getting out of here!  Now! 
A knife sings through the air and buries itself in the Captain's chest.  With a tiny rasp, he falls to the ground. 
The remaining men bolt. 
LEADER Traitors!  You cowards! 
He grabs for the Captain's machine gun. 
LEADER I know who you are!  I'll see you hang!  Every last one of you! 
"You" echoes down the dark empty throat of the tunnel. 
The Leader looks around, his flashlight sweeping in big arcs as he realizes that he is alone. 
LEADER Finch?  Finch!  Finch, goddammit, you can't leave me!  Don't leave me! 
V You are going to die as you ruled -- 
The Leader screams, whipping around towards the voice. 
V Alone. 
The smile is as cold and as sharp as the knife that flicks from his hand. 
The Leader raises his gun just when the knife sinks into his shoulder. 
Howling in pain, he drops the gun. 
LEADER Damn you!  Damn you! 
V smiles into the spot of his flashlight. 
LEADER Conrad?  Is that you?  You're working with Finch, aren't you? And Creedy!  You're all in this together! 
V closes in. 
LEADER Who are you? 
V You, most of all, should know, Leader.  You created me.  Without you, I would never be.  More than life, Leader, you gave me purpose. 
V draws his final blade. 
V "He that killeth with the sword, shall be killed with the sword." 
V raises the knife. 
LEADER Noooo! 
FINCH Don't move! 
V and the Leader turn to find Finch aiming a machine gun at V. 
LEADER Mr. Finch!  Oh god, Mr. Finch! 
FINCH Drop the knife. 
V does and Susan begins an almost hysterical laugh. 
LEADER Oh, I knew it, Mr. Finch.  I knew you wouldn't desert me.  You're a good man, Finch.  A damn good man. 
FINCH No, Mr. Susan.  No, I'm not.  I'm a man who does his job and does what he's told.  For twenty seven years, that's all I've been. 
He steps toward V, staring into his smiling black eyes. 
LEADER Careful, Mr. Finch.  He's quick as the devil. 
Finch ignores the Leader. 
FINCH I've read Delia's diary over and over all year.  It sickens me but I am unable to judge her.  I am as guilty as she. 
LEADER Mr. Finch, what are you doing? Shoot him.  Kill the bastard, Finch. 
FINCH I have no excuse.  I did what I was told to do. 
LEADER Finch, I order you to shoot him! Finch! 
FINCH My job was to find you and catch you.  I've done my job.  I've done it for the last time.  I'm tired of it.  I'm tired of it all. 
He tosses the gun to the Leader. 
FINCH Kill him yourself if you can. 
The Leader seethes, his eyes boring into Finch. 
FINCH Thank you, V.  And goodbye. 
V Goodbye, Mr. Finch. 
The machine gun burst shatters the quiet concrete silence. Finch falls dead at V's feet. 
LEADER I warned you, Finch, the penalty for treason is death. 
He aims the gun at V. 
LEADER Are you ready to die? 
V The real question is, are you? 
EVEY You need a doctor. 
V It's too late for that... 
EVEY No, don't say that! 
V Evey, listen to me.  I've not long and there are things that must be said. 
His voice strains beneath the mask. 
V I have done that which I came to do.  Now, it is time for me to rest and with me the past will, at last, find peace. 
Trembling, Evey holds him. 
V But the world, the world is not saved... Do not think that, when the fires die and the smoke clears, there is no miracle... there is only a path... upon which they must learn to rule themselves. 
EVEY Yes, they need you, V. 
V Not me, Evey, not me.  I told you I am the villain.  The destroyer... But yes, they will need help... 
He reaches up and wipes a tear from her cheek. 
V I kept my promise to you, Evey... Now you must promise me. 
EVEY What? 
V Promise me... you will discover the face under this mask... but you will never look beneath it. 
EVEY I don't understand. 
V Promise me.  Please... 
EVEY I promise. 
V Sweet Eve.  Wherever I shall go, I shall always love you. 
EVEY V, you are not going anywhere! 
V Midnight... Midnight.  Eve... Make them remember... 
EVEY You're not going to die, V! 
V Let me be there, Evey, when it begins... Please, let me hear the music, one last time... my music... 
EVEY I won't let you die! 
V I know you won't... I know... 
EVEY V! 
V My love... Ave Atque vale... 
Holding him as tight as she can, she feels his life drain away, slipping through her arms in the way the last grains of sand pour through the neck of the hourglass. 
She buries her face beside his and weeps. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
An enormous crowd has begun to gather in the streets surrounding the New Government Building.  With the crowd, a restlessness swells against each barricade erected by the military. 
A sergeant stands on an armored car, speaking through a megaphone. 
SERGEANT Return to your homes!  There is nothing to see!  The terrorist is dead! 
RABBLE ROUSER 1 He ain't dead! 
RABBLE ROUSER 2 He'll be here, just like he said! 
INT.  SHADOW GALLERY 
Evey huddles against the stair railing, her face tear stained, staring at the lifeless body of V. 
EVEY (V.O.) I remember... I remember staring at the mask, at that smile. 
She touches the mask, her fingers finding its edge. 
EVEY (V.O.) Part of me couldn't believe he was dead and maybe that was why.  The smile was still the same. It made me want to tear it off so I could see the face, so I could see that he was dead. 
Her fingers stop. 
EVEY (V.O.) But I had promised. 
V (V.O.) You will discover the face under this mask but you will never look beneath it. 
EVEY (V.O.) I began to try to imagine his face. Of course, I had long pictured my father behind that smile but I knew in my heart that V was not my father. 
Evey stares into the eyes, the dark, empty eyes. 
EVEY (V.O.) Yet every time I pictured another face, any face, something was lost, something important was somehow diminished.  V was more than a face.  V was V. 
Her expression changes. 
EVEY (V.O.) And then, quite suddenly, quite naturally, I realized whose face must be beneath that mask.  It was the only face that mattered. 
EVEY I won't let you die. 
V (V.O.) I know you won't... I know. 
A small smile creeps across her face. 
EXT.  CITY STREET 
Midnight approaches and the crowd feels it.  Spilling everywhere, they fill the streets like a flood. 
INT.  TRAIN CAR 
Evey sets a final violet carson on the chest of V.  He is lying on a bed made of gelignite, covered in roses. 
Touching his mask, she bends over him. 
EVEY Goodbye, my love. 
