VANILLA SKY 
Written by 
Cameron Crowe 
Shooting Script 
ON BLACK We hear a whooshing sound, getting louder. 
A BLINK OF AN IMAGE New York City from a perspective of flight, not an airplane, a swooping diving shot. Back to black. 
A WOMAN'S VOICE Abre los ojos... open your eyes... open your eyes... 
INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING 
DAVID AAMES, JR., 32, swings out of bed and sits on the corner of his mattress. it's a chilly New York City morning. Early sunlight glows around the corner's of his curtains. 
A WOMAN'S VOICE open your eyes... He reaches behind him to shut off a slim voice-activated clock-radio. He rises, a comforter draped around his shoulders, and heads to the bathroom. 
INT. DAVID'S BATHROOM - MORNING 
David regards himself in the mirror of a beautifully-tiled and well-appointed bathroom. in his thirties now, his looks have only deepened and improved. He brushes his teeth. He spots a gray hair, and holding tweezers, seizes and plucks it. 
INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - MORNING 
David puts on a shirt. Checks his wallet for money. His bedroom is elegant and spare. 
INT. DAVID'S NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT - MORNING 
He slips down the stairs into the expansive living area of this deeply-textured apartment. A stunning, inherited book collection lines the walls. 
INT./EXT. NEW YORK CITY GARAGE BELOW APARTMENT/STREETS - 
MORNING David starts up his dark green sports car, and roars onto the New York City streets. 
EXT. NEW YORK SIDE STREETS u- MORNING David travels the side-streets to work. He senses a growing weirdness. The streets are empty. He looks at. his watch. It's        8:12.  He continues anxiously. Runs a red light. Music rises. 
EXT. TIMES SQUARE -- MORNING 
The most recognized piece of real-estate in the world is silent. It is as if the world's biggest parade has just left, taking everybody with it. David pulls over haphazardly. He exits the car, leaving it in the middle of the street. He begins to walk, faster now, as music rises. All the electricity is on. There is absolutely nobody in sight. David begins to run, searching for humanity. The billboards - electronic and still - all sell easy solutions to his loneliness. He pulls up short., stopping and crying out in anguish. There is no one left in the world. 
A WOMAN'S VOICE Open your eyes... open your eyes, David... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
INT. BEDROOM - MORNING 
David hangs out of bed, his mouth in an open silent scream. Covers his face with both hands. 
A WOMAN'S VOICE . open your eyes... He reaches behind to shut off the same clock-radio, and its voice.  He makes a relieved agonized sound into the pillow. Gets up, sees a pizza box... a container of soup... a remote control on the floor. We hear an incisive voice with a comforting lilt - a man we'll meet later. 
A MAN'S VOICE Well, I suppose the empty street meant loneliness. 
DAVID'S VOICE You're a shrink. You've got to do better than that. 
A MAN'S VOICE I'm a doctor. Let's not stereotype each other. Not all rich kids are soul-less, and not all psychologists care about dreams. The question is how you 
got here, and why you've been charged. 
DAVID I'm sorry to do this early. I gotta be done by 10. Car phone rings. David checks Caller ID - it's his office. He clicks on. 
ASSISTANT VOICE   (RACHEL) You're not going to make the 8:45, are you? 
DAVID How did you find me? 
RACHEL'S VOICE David Aames, you have to check the colors of the letters for the new issue of Rise. 
DAVID What are the colors? 
RACHEL'S VOICE Yellow-and-red... or the traditional white. 
DAVID Let, me think about it. 
RACHEL'S VOICE David, please. Don't be late for the ten o'clock with the board. 
DAVID Okay, but. don't tell anybody where I am I don't care if God calls. I'm very busy. 
BRIAN Can't you just get rid of that board? 
DAVID The Seven Dwarves? No. 
BRIAN Those people drive you nuts. 
DAVID And that was the desire of my father, who hired them. 
BRIAN (suspicious pause) You fucked Julie Gianni again, didn't you? David takes off driving. 
INT. ANOTHER STREET - DAY - DRIVING 
BRIAN I know someone was there when I called. You had that tone. (imitates nasal phone voice) Oh, no man, I've got a cold. I'm hanging in tonight. 
DAVID (shaky defense) I had a cold. I was alone. 
BRIAN Fine. You can do whatever you want with your life - 
DAVID Thanks. 
BRIAN -- but one day you'll know what love truly is. It's the sour and the sweet. And I know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet. 
DAVID Julie Gi.anni is a friend. Sometimes we sleep together. Brian howls in pain, like a hurt dog. 
DAVID What -- 
BRIAN My dream girl... Julie Gianni... is your... fuck buddy. Brian emits another pained howl. David reaches over to change the music. 
DAVID What do you want to listen to? 
BRIAN Slow down, man. 
DAVID What have we got here - Barcelona, Looper... Radiohead? Brian freezes at what he sees. 
BRIAN Look out! Look out! David turns and sees he's hurtling into the back of a car stopped just in front of him. Clenching he hits the brakes, narrowly avoiding a high-speech collision. And then... to his right... another car comes hurtling toward him... and stops within an inch of deadly impact.           There is an awful moment, as the second car blares on the horn. Traffic continues, but the lingering feeling of dread and confusion is still in the air. 
BRIAN Fuck! 
DAVID (annoyed) We almost died. 
BRIAN I know. My own death was right there in front of me, and you know what happened? Your life flashed before my eyes. 
SOFIA (shoves David playfully, as in touche) Happy Birthday. Her upbeat physicality is intoxicating. Sofia hands David her present. 
BRIAN We picked it out together. Neither look at Brian. Brian takes a breath. He's been here before. 
DAVID Thank you. 
BRIAN We picked it out together. We... 
SOFIA Welcome. 
BRIAN Stop flirting and open it. 
DAVID Okay. 
BRIAN Let's get a drink. 
SOFIA Okay. 
DAVID I'll leave this upstairs. David exits. They are left to consider his personal charisma. 
ANGLE ON A HOLOGRAPHIC DISPLAY CONNECTED TO STEREO An odd and disarmingly beautiful display of Coltrane performing "My Favorite Things" in David's living room. Sofia passes a hand through Coltrane's image, admires it. 
ON DAVID David is approached by THOMAS TIPP, a Brit, and an Associate board-member at Aames Publications. Tipp is ten years older than David, and he is the rarest of birds. A sentimental lawyer. And at the moment he's a bit drunk. 
DAVID Hey Tommy. David moves to address him so he can still track Sofia. 
TIPP Hey.  Listen to me. Don't blow me off. I'm all packed, I'm going back to London and I understand. You put me up for that other attorney's job, so you didn't have to fire me. A classy move, and your father would have done the same --- 
DAVID It's okay, Tommy -- 
TIPP I became incompetent. Is there anything more unbecoming than an aging mascot? I cared about your father. I lived and breathed for him. But these guys, the board, they think you're stupid.  A corporate hazard, a rogue. But the word "stupid" is what David heard loudest of all. Nearby, we see a Woman Partner          (one of the Seven Dwarves) taking a quick look at David. 
TIPP But they're going to find a way to get you out. They're lined up for your office - David scans the room. Beneath the good cheer, he sees the other layer. Lying. Disloyalty. All part of the institution he enjoys forgetting exists. Each word bashes his soul. 
TIPP -- your job. Your life. Your position. They are working day and night. to cheat you out of your 51% vote. And they are going to sell this tradition, this tradition of words, so they can eat at a better cafeteria. And what they don't know is this - (gestures grandly to books that surround them) - people will read again. David's gaze falls upon Sofia, who is looking directly at him. And for one blinding moment, something passes between them. She looks away. He feels saved. 
DAVID (interrupting with finality) I got it. 
TIPP They even have a nickname for you behind your back. David smiles faintly. Understandingly.   Tipp kisses him on the cheek, boldly and drunkenly. He feels like a hero to himself. 
TIPP Citizen Dildo. David flinches, just a little. 
TIPP Now you've got great instincts. But I say this with complete love. Claim your life... Learn to be an Asshole... Don't be         - 
DAVID (extracting himself) Two's enough - 
TIPP Don ' t be- (immediately) Okay. Forgive me. I still believe in this family. Even if it's only you. David continues tracking Sofia as he slips over to Peter Brown. 
DAVID Get Tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. Set up a meeting with the other attorneys. I'm going to be in early tomorrow -- (a look from Peter Brown) -- earlier than usual. 
INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
David enters, shuts the door and sets Sofia's present down. A party dress is on his bed. 
JULIANNA Hello handsome. He turns to see Julie Gianni in the bathroom doorway, wrapped in a comforter. 
JULIANNA I've come to wish you happy birthday. 
DAVID I didn't invite you, Julie. 
SOFIA I'll improvise    - 
DAVID She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she? 
SOFIA Red dress, strappy shoes? 
DAVID Yes_ 
SOFIA (beat, jarred) -- wow, she's really staring at you. 
DAVID Shit. 
SOFIA And she seems to be growing... less happy. 
DAVID Hmm. 
SOFIA I think she's the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. Julie Gianni sits on the steps watching. The girl, and the dress, looked much happier in the bedroom. Julie rises and begins to move. 
ON BRIAN Brian holds a drink, attempts to crash a conversation between two models. His debonair act is shaky. 
INT. APARTMENT STAIRCASE   -- NIGHT 
David and Sofia race up the stairs. Bad kids having fun. 
SOFIA You have another apartment? 
DAVID Sort of a day office. Come on - They arrive at the door to a smaller upstairs apartment. 
SOFIA I'm not going in there. 
DAVID Well I am. Goodnight. He enters and shuts the door. Frustrated, she stands for    a moment, listening to the music streaming from the downstairs apartment. We watch her private moment as she decides to leave him, turns, feels the emotional pull, dances back and knocks sharply three times. 
SOFIA I hear her coming. 
DAVID (0.5.) Really? 
SOFIA No. David pulls her inside. Shuts the door behind them. 
INT. PARTY - NIGHT 
Julianna and Brian, both looking for David, discover each other. 
INT. HOME APARTMENT/OFFICE - NIGHT 
Artwork on the walls. Sofia is drawn to a powerful Monet... and it is not a copy. 
DAVID We're safe.      And I've got nothing to drink... 
SOFIA Who did these paintings? 
DAVID This is Joni Mitchell. This one is Monet. And this one is done by me. (as a tour guide) It is a snowboard. 
SOFIA Well, two of them are geniuses. (laughs) 
DAVID (off the Monet) It's the real thing. His paintbrush painted that vanilla sky. His canvas. It. was my mother's. 
INT. PARTY - NIGHT 
Julianna and Brian hold their private conversation by a piano. They are bonded, almost mesmerized by their mutual fascination for David. 
BRIAN But why'd you have to hit on Sofia? 
DAVID No one's hitting on Sofia. 
BRIAN Fine. Whatever you say.               I'm crazy, I'm blind. 
DAVID No, you're not blind. You're just drinking Jack Daniels. And when you drink Jack, you start. in with that Frank Sinatra, "She Shot. Me Down," gimme a cigarette, King of Sad thing... 
BRIAN That. I do. Gimme a cigarette. 
DAVID I'll find one. 
BRIAN But wait. You're rich and women love you and I'm from Ohio and I'm drunk. Can I tell you the truth? 
DAVID Everyone does. 
BRIAN I dig her.        And I've never said this to you before, about any girl. But she could be... could be could be could be... the girl of my fuckin dreams. 
DAVID You're not from Ohio. 
BRIAN I know. 
BRIAN But if she fucks tip our friendship - she can go to hell. I won't allow it!         We are bros. 
DAVID I feel the same way. 
BRIAN (wishes he believed it) Sure you do. Brianprepares to leave, as Sofia returns with   drinks. 
SOFIA Where you going? 
BRIAN I am Frank. And Frank must go. 
SOFIA Huh? 
BRIAN I good you bid evening. Sofialooks at her watch, and the situation. 
SOFIA Hang on, I'll go with you. 
BRIAN Stay, baby. 
DAVID I'll give you a lift home later. 
SOFIA No, I have to work tomorrow. 
BRIAN You're in great. hands. (beat, realizing it's over) I'm just humoring myself that my opinion matters. Brian looks at the two of them. Life is telling him, and he knows it's time to go. Portrait of a man who will not get what. he wants. David notes the poetry in his friend. 
BRIAN (leans in close to David) You will never know the exquisite pain of the guy who goes home alone. Because without. the bitter, baby, the sweet ain't as sweet. Have a good time. He exits like a champ, a glorious sad-sack, with a hand flourish. 
DAVID The Sweet and Sour speech again. 
INT. PARTY 
Julie Gianni dances, her eyes closed, her hand around a strange man's neck. 
EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT __ NIGHT 
They stand nervously out in front of her apartment. In the distance, rain. 
DAVID A lot of people are scared of heights. It's not the heights that bother me, it's the impact that terrifies me. (off her look) I won't stay long. She laughs. It was never his decision to make. 
DAVID And you moved to New York. To dance and paint and act and deal arms. 
SOFIA Right. (going through CDs) Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr? 
DAVID Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr? Both - simultaneously. He continues looking. Flashes of the photos on her refrigerator. 
SOFIA Everyone said "don't go to New York." But I just think good 
things will happen if you're a good person with a good attitude. Doncha think? He regards her.  He's a little restless, and a lot enchanted. Is she for real? 
SOFIA You think I'm naive. He decides she's for real. He turns back to the photos on her fridge. 
DAVID No. I really don't. 
DAVID (V.0.) I dug her completely. Somehow, I had found the last semi-guileless girl in New York City. 
SOFIA I have to get to sleep. Truthfully -- I'm also working mornings as a dental assistant. 
DAVID (to himself) Boy, am I going to the wrong dentist. 
MCCABE(V.0.) And you didn't immediately want to sleep with her? 
DAVID (V.0.) Well you know - I'm a pleasure delayer. 
MCCABE (V.O.) (interested in his romantic style) How does that work? 
DAVID (V.0.) (toying with the shrink) Pleasure delaying... you don't know? You keep the relationship casual until the absolute breaking point.And then, one night, or afternoon, or morning... it could be months from now... oh, you know how it works - 
His vision moves across the bright blue sky of one of Sofia's photos. A single crimson cloud. 
INT. PSYCHIATRIC UNIT CELL -, DAY         -- THE NEXT 
WEEK/INTERROGATION # 2 David sits with the mask, facing McCabe. McCabe is hanging on every word. 
MCCABE - actually no I don't. I've been married for twenty-two years. 
DAVID Ah, you've got dinner with your daughters. 
MCCABE That's right. I do. 
DAVID Back then I had intricate systems with women you wouldn't believe. 
MCCABE Like... what... 
DAVID Hey Doc. Don't get all melancholy over the thirty seconds you were single a long time ago. 
MCCABE That's what you think I'm doing? 
DAVID Yes. 
MCCABE Well, you may have a point. Let's continue. Time is not our friend. 
INT. AARON'S CUBLICLE/PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY 
Aaron watches David, a 17-inch television on a stool to his right. Again, strangely, it is "To Kill A Mockingbird" that he's watching. We hear audio from the movie through the glass. 
INT. LIVING ROOM NIGHT 
David with artist's notebook in hand. Across the table, Sofia holds the other notebook. 
INTERVIEWER ON T.V. And to those who think that you're a charlatan? 
OLDER MAN ON T.V. I understand. The perception of a head frozen somewhere waiting for reanimation - it sounds like science fiction. 
SOFIA What are you watching? 
DAVID It's the greatest show... it's called "Sofia." Sofia looks at him and smiles. They look back to the television. 
ON TV INFOMERCIAL A charming looking older-man discusses eternal life with a television interviewer. 
SOFIA (off t.v.) I've seen this thirty times. 
DAVID We did a story on this guy. He owns half of Arizona. 
SOFIA Is he a fraud? 
DAVID How would you ever know? 
SOFIA Good point. 
INTERVIEWER ON T.V. Can you unfreeze a human life? 
OLDER MAN ON T.V. Take the case of Benny the dog. Benny is a dog who was frozen for three months, and thawed out to live a normal life. 
SOFIA Oh, well that's comforting. It's safe for Benny. I'm in! David moves closer to her. 
SOFIA We better watch out. They regard each other, and David gets up off the sofa. It's true. The promise is too great to not savor it, and walk away for now. Thrill remains in the air. 
SOFIA Where are you going? 
DAVID I left my number on your fridge. He makes a courtly bow and turns. She feels the loss of his company. 
SOFIA Come here, I want to tell you a secret. He pauses a moment, and turns. In this instant, a fleeting instant, it's the oddest thing. He can see their entire 
life together. He returns to her. Tentatively, she grabs a quick sweet kiss on his mouth. He stays for an extra moment, kissing just her upper lip, leaving no doubt as to the potential of their future. And then... very close she says: 
SOFIA I meant that to be your forehead. David stands. He looks around the small apartment. 
DAVID Thank you for the inspiration. I will now attempt to run my company, showing compassion for the seething throng of my partners who root quietly for me to fail. She looks at him, quite aware of his personal and business crossroads. Silently, she roots for him like crazy. 
DAVID For things you don't even know - thank you. I'm going to go to work. I have a company to run. 
SOFIA Pleasure delayer. He is still somewhat stunned by the evening, and the girl. He actually wants to run his company. 
EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT - DAY 
David slips out onto the street. It's shabbier than the alluring night-time version. He'd never notice, or care... because David is a man with a brand new buzz.                The city is his. Everything good and great suddenly feels inevitable. Life feels like a great pop song. Behind him, a car with its lights still on starts and advances alongside.           Behind the wheel is Julianna Gianni. 
JULIANNA David Aames. David leans on his car, turns and shakes his head. 
DAVID Julie Gianni.     You're following me. 
JULIANNA only a little.    I wanted to finish what we were talking about. 
DAVID And _- 
JUL IANNA How'd it work out with our Moth Girl? Did she turn into a butterfly for you? 
DAVID Yes she did. 
DAVID stop the car! She picks at things on the dashboard, as she talks with a manic energy. 
JULIANNA Twenty-four hours a day I live with the aching possibility that you might call me to do something. 
DAVID (caring, almost. pleading) Take me to your house. We'll talk this out. I want to see where you live. I want you to stop the car, Julie. I want you to stop the car! 
JULIANNA Don't you know, David? Every time you sleep with someone... your body makes a promise whether you do or not? 
PROFILE OF DAVID AAMES JR. who turns slowly to face her. All he sees are haunted blue eyes. He knows at the very least, there will be a crash. She guns the accelerator.         He is paralyzed, unable to alter his fate. 
JULIANNA Tell me something, David. Do you believe in God? Sweet pop music swells. She bursts the barrier of the winding road, and the car sails into an embankment of a road below. All sound disappears, as we hear a new kind of music. Ethereal, almost wondrous. This music continues. 
TO BLACK 
EXT. CENTRAL PARK - HALL OF TREES - DAY - DREAM 
David walks the hall of trees. It's the gentle seductive whoosh of a new day, the way the world sounds when you're in love. Vibrant. Alive. Ironically rich in the beauty we all take for granted when we're not in love. He looks impossibly drawn forward to Sofia, who stands waiting to meet him. 
SOFIA Hello. He steals a kiss. They both feel like they're getting away with something. 
DAVID You're amazing. Hello. 
SOFIA Did you get to work alright? 
DAVID Yeah, well, actually... I had a horrible dream. 
SOFIA You dreamed you'd never see me again. 
DAVID I left your house. I went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me. 
SOFIA Julie. 
DAVID Yes. She followed me down the street. She wanted to talk, and I had that buzz... from you and me, and I think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me... and, you know, I got inside. And she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car. 
SOFIA I thought you were going straight to work. 
DAVID But I survive! I survive with my arm and my face reconstructed. And what's worse I couldn't wake up. 
SOFIA (shushing) How was your house after the party? 
DAVID What party? A party? 
SOFIA The PARTY. Remember? Red dress... strappy shoes... I spilled something on your SHIRT... sweet and sour... and the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. He looks at her, completely lost and spacy. 
DAVID  (V.0.) My dreams are a cruel joke. They taunt me. Even in my dreams, I'm an idiot who knows he's about to wake up to reality. If I could only avoid sleep, but I can't. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT - DAY 
The alarm clock goes off.   A hand shuts it off. He looks at a model plane by the side of the bed. 
DAVID  (V.0.) I try to tell myself what to dream. I try to dream that I'm flying, something freeing. It never works. Viewed in shadow, he rises out of bed. 
MCCABE (V.0.) Is that the only thing that you dream? 
JARRING FLASHES/RACING THOUGHTS - DREAM SEQUENCE Walking down a hallway, a pretty woman with red hair beckons. On a motel floor, David writhes in pain. 
INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT -   (INTERROGATION # 2) 
DAVID I don't... I don't remember. 
Sofia dances at the end of a long day. A few others leave for the day, trying not to stare at David. Sofia is there alone. For a moment, we share her solitude. She practices ballet, twisting and turning and landing in frame, looking just past camera. She freezes. She catches sight of David, undisguised. And she begins dancing again. Harder. Does she even recognize him? He moves closer, attempting an easy-going persona. We hear nothing but the sound of his heart pounding, in odd counter-rhythm to her dancing. Finally she stops. 
DAVID You won't believe this... but this is me smiling. She laughs a little at his strange new humor, keeps a brave front. 
SOFIA It's been a long time. I tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me. 
DAVID I didn't want to see me, okay. But then I woke up today and finally, a good hair day. David fights anxiety, smoothes his coat. 
DAVID You want to go out, you want to do something? 
SOFIA (convincing herself) Sure. 
DAVID What? 
SOFIA Let's go out and do something. 
DAVID This weekend. I'll cancel an operation or two. We'll have fun. Because I am all about fun. She kisses his cheek, pulls back quickly, and as she exits... he sees her fighting tears. 
INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT 
David's mirror is restored. He studies himself. Raises his arm higher than he has been able to. In the next room we hear Conan O'Brien welcoming: 
CONAN (O.S.) . please welcome, Benny the Dog. 
INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 
David watches Conan. The Owner of Benny sits with Benny himself. He wears a t-shirt reading: L.E. Benny is not the most excitable dog in town. In fact, he seems rather spacey. 
CONAN (O.S.) I have so many questions. To start off, tell us all just what has happened to Benny. What's Benny been through? 
OLDER MAN/OWNER Benny fell into the water near our home, and was frozen in the Skykomish River. And I went fishing, thinking he'd gone three months earlier', and there he was in a block of ice, and... David grabs the phone, and dials a number. 
CONAN (off the dog's complacency) He is thawed out, right? Laughter on the t.v. Riding the buzz of what he's watching, David dials. 
DAVID Hey listen, it's David. I'm back in your life. I saw you earlier tonight. I was just watching our old friend Benny the Dog on... on Conan... and I thought of you. (laughs) Whatever. I loved seeing you today. So I'll see you soon. You're a great dancer! He hangs up and feels instantly mortified. He looks at the phone in his hand. 
TO BLACK 
INT. CLUB - NIGHT 
David moves into the thick of a high-energy neighborhood dance club. He wears a facial prosthetic. In the darkness, he doesn't stick out, not much. He spots Sofia and Brian, chatting, waiting for him. The sight of the two together recalls happier times. Sofia is dressed down. Brian, on the other hand, has never looked better. His clothes are nicer. He wears them with confidence. David has practiced an opening joke, clapping his hands together. He will be trying too hard, all night long. They regard him in the mask. 
SOFIA (a little too big) Hi! 
BRIAN (equally big) Hey. 
DAVID What are you drinking? 
SOFIA Nothing. 
BRIAN I am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. You want one? 
DAVID (spreads arms) Is there any other kind? 
BRIAN I'll go get us some         - 
SOFIA Where's the bathroom? 
BRIAN Behind... over by the place next to the door by the chick... I mean, girl who looks like Bjork. She leaves. David turns to Brian immediately. 
EXT. CLUB STREET/SOFIA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
David runs frantically, heartbroken and sobbing. 
HIS MIND Brian catches up to Sofia. She turns, relieved. They kiss messily, hungrily. Her shoes arch to reach his height. David runs the streets, nearing her home. The images are tearing his mind apart. He stops and leans against a car, unsteady and nauseous. Holding his head in pain, he manages to run further. David stops on the street outside her apartment. His sobs overwhelm him. He drops to the pavement. He passes out, mouth agape. The empty street visible in the b.g., his hand loosens its grip on the mask. 
FADE TO BLACK 
WOMAN'S VOICE Open your eyes... open your eyes... 
EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT -- EARLY MORNING 
David is passed out, the mask is still clutched in his hand. A Butterfly crosses frame. A hand enters, resting on his shoulder. 
WOMAN'S VOICE This is a cheap ploy for sympathy. David wakes up and looks into the kind face of Julie Gianni. 
JULIANNA Boo! He recoils. His vision sharpens. In the morning shadows, with increasing focus, we see that it is actually Sofia. 
DAVID No, I'm okay - 
DAVID POV Sofia examines him with a look of concern and understanding. Everything takes on a clear and sharp focus. Behind her is a beautiful vanilla sky. 
SOFIA And it worked. Get up. 
DAVID Ugh - 
SOFIA (helping him up) That's right. I agree. Ugh. 
DAVID This is a joke. 
SOFIA (touches his cheek) David. I'm not going to lie to you. I liked the way you looked. But if you don't pull it together, I'll forget the other guy. You know that. other guy - YOU? 
DAVID (groggy) I'm still that guy. I'm still that guy. Sofia speaks with rapid-fire conviction, as if she might change her mind if she thought about it too much. 
SOFIA I don't. have a mother-savior bone in my body. It's not about that. You're coming inside. But if this 
turns out to be a big mistake, I do have the ability to fall out of love with you - (snaps fingers) - like that. She helps him up. 
DAVID I am still that guy. 
SOFIA Shut up. 
DAVID   (V.0.) We created our own world together. Us vs. Them - 
DAVID Where's Brian? 
SOFIA He went with you, didn't he? 
DAVID (shaking head at his own paranoia) I thought you guys hooked up. She stops in profile with him. She's astonished at his jealousy. Then: 
SOFIA (raw truth) I wish you hadn't gotten in the car with that girl. 
DAVID (a long apology is coming) Sofia... I'm... She covers his mouth, nose and face. Only his eyes remain. 
SOFIA Your eyes apologized better. Come on. Portrait of the two, her leading him to the door, the crisp glycerine morning overhead. 
SOFIA Holy God, this is going to change my life in a zillion different ways... I must be nuts. 
DAVID   (V.0.) - and we were quite a pair.   Her believing in me. Me believing that I deserved it. We hear the sound of voices, human voices howling like dogs. 
INT. SURGICAL THEATRE -• DAY 
David is wheeled down the hallway on a stretcher. He is high on tranquilizers, singing "One of Us." The doctors are all smiles. 
DAVID(SINGING) what if Gawd was one of ussssss... " 
DAVID(V.0.) The odds, they said, were one in three that the headaches could be reduced by 50% and facial tissue could be regenerated. 
INT. SURGICAL THEATRE - DAY 
David is strapped onto a plank headed for a metallic capsule. We hear odd noises and see high--tech details of the operation. Laser beams criss-cross his face. Shot moves to the video playback of the operation with this legend beneath: Capture. An assistant doctor captures Polaroid frames. 
DAVID   (V.0.) I couldn't tell you what they did. It seemed like science fiction to me. 
DOCTOR (V.0.) He's going to be one good-looking guy when I'm done. A Polaroid still of David in mid-operation rolls out of the print-machine. 
DAVID   (V.0.) Obviously, I was suspicious. Wouldn't you be? 
INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT -    (INTERROGATION # 3) 
David and McCabe both sit against the wall. McCabe listens intently. 
MCCABE Suspicious of whom? Of what? 
DAVID Once you've been driven off a bridge at 80 miles an hour, somehow you don't invite happiness in without a full body search. 
MCCABE Well, at the risk of boring you, I can present the alternate argument. I once knew a guy who was a real loner. And one day he woke up at 40, with two daughters who lit his life up with purpose. Suddenly he goes to endless school plays, he gets home at       9:20                  for the evening discussion, and he has the time of his life. His favorite Beatle was once John, and now it's Paul. 
DAVID I always liked... George. 
MCCABE It all depends on the individual, doesn't it? Tell me. What's happiness for you? 
INT. JULIANNA GIANNI'S CAR - DAWN - FLASHBACK 
JULIANNA What's happiness to you, David? 
INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT - BACK TO PRESENT 
DAVID How about another question - 
MCCABE Well, you won't show me your face. So back to the time-line. Hurry. Let's move through this. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT - DUSK 
There is tension in the air. David's face is covered in high-tech facial plates. He sits at a table near the window. Sofia stands. 
SOFIA You've got to take the plates off, David. 
DAVID I don't want to know what's under here. 
SOFIA It's going to be fine, you'll see. 
DAVID I already called Pomeranz and switched it to Wednesday. 
SOFIA I hope that shrew at the front desk gave you shit about it. 
DAVID I'll go in the morning. The car'll be fixed. She advances, takes his face in her hands. She tugs at the corner of one of the plates. 
SOFIA Good, because I know that the problem wouldn't be you delaying something you were dreading. 
DAVID Well, as long as you're okay. 
BRIAN And anyway, we're friends, aren't we? 
DAVID Always. David offers his hand. They shake. 
DAVID'S POV David's gaze moves to a 40 year-old man staring at him with a bemused smile. A plate of food sits in front of him. His eyes suggest a piercing intellect, he looks at David with deep familiarity. David can't quite place the face. 
BRIAN Hey what's up with your face? Fuck, there's a seam opening or something! 
DAVID (mounting horror) What - what are you talking about? Brian laughs. The spell is broken. Friends again. 
DAVID You asshole! 
INT. DAVID'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 
David sleeps next to Sofia. He sits up, takes a glass of water from the night-stand, admires his girlfriend and moves to the bathroom. 
INT. BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT 
He turns on the light, fills the glass with water. Looks up into the restored mirror. His face is disfigured. He recoils in terror, knocking against a towel rack, sinking to the floor and grabbing a look at a shiny surface on the lower cabinet. Sofia bolts upright. She sees him on the floor across the room, sees his face and backs up in the bed, leaning on her arm, screaming. 
INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 
He awakens suddenly. Sofia is next to him, smiling. 
SOFIA Was I snoring? 
DAVID (still breathing heavily) No, I think it was me. Thirsty, that's all. She kisses his hand reassuringly. 
SOFIA I'm dreaming about you. Mmmmmmm. He gets up and goes to the bathroom. 
INT. BATHROOM 
Tentatively, he flips the light on. A very relieved David regards his restored face. He shuts off the light quickly, and fills the glass of water. Splashes some water on his face. 
INT. BEDROOM 
David climbs back into bed. 
SOFIA 
DAVID (small laugh) I could listen to you say "mmmmm" for the rest of my life. 
SOFIA They kiss. The kiss expands, as he moves to the back of her neck. He caresses her body. She kisses his fingertips. Her back to him. Tangled in sheets, they ease into lovemaking with the perfect fit of two bodies meant for each other. He gently grabs a handful of her hair. His hand stops.   It's not Sofia's hair. He slowly turns her face to his, and we glimpse David over the shoulder of the woman who is not Sofia. He leaps out of bed, falling to the floor, the sheet tangled around him. He turns on the light. Julie Gianni hides her face from the light, like a night animal caught in the intrusive glare of day. When she speaks, it is with Sofia's cadence and accent. 
JULIANNA (scared, uncomprehending) Baby, what's wrong? He gasps for breath, backing away. Totally terrified. Paralyzed. In a low voice: 
DAVID Where. Is. She. 
JULIANNA Who? His instinct is to protect his lifeline Sofia - and he pounces on her with a manic will to survive. 
Julie Gianni looks a little loopy, almost stoned. Taunting. 
JULIANNA (taunting, sweet) I'm Sofia. 
INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT - MINUTES LATER 
David dismantles the phone, takes the cord. He ties her willing hands to the posts of the bed. She protests oddly, like an actress playing a part. 
INT./EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
Exiting, David is intercepted by a furious Brian. 
BRIAN You're in fucking sad shape, man. Don't fucking ever hit a girl, man. Hit me, but don't fucking EVER hit a girl. David looks up -- sees a small security camera trained on them - pulls Brian out of the station. 
DAVID It wasn't Sofia. It was Julie. 
BRIAN Oh... it was Julie Gianni. So, Sofia was abducted by Julie, and now Julie is posing as Sofia. 
DAVID Yes. 
BRIAN You're in O.J. land, man. Julie Gianni is fucking dead! 
DAVID I don't know what the cops have told you, but let me assure you - Julie Gianni is alive alive ALIVE. 
BRIAN I didn't talk to the cops. I talked to Sofia! 
DAVID Where is she? 
BRIAN I just dropped Sofia off. And I saw everything you did to her. 
DAVID Let me tell you something - I did not do that to her. Look me in the eye and tell me that it was the same girl you brought to the party. Tell me it was your dream girl, your "proximity infatuation." 
BRIAN (raw, finally) Yes! And you stole her from me! David backs away, as Brian responds bitterly, from his heart. 
BRIAN The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too. 
DAVID You have revealed yourself. 
BRIAN Oh yeah, I'm with them. 
DAVID Where'd you get the coat, Brian? Where'd you get the camera? How much did they pay you? 
BRIAN Listen to me, 'cause it's the last time we're ever gonna speak. I was your only friend. 
DAVID You have revealed yourself to me. 
INT. FLORENTINE'S - NIGHT 
David nurses a drink, still breathing heavily. He's been crying. His head aches with this thought - maybe I am insane. A man in a classy suit walks towards him, inviting himself to sit at the table. His bedside manner is impeccable. His smile offers infinite compassion. He was the man staring at. him in this same restaurant. He is 
EDMUND VENTURA. 
VENTURA Problems? 
DAVID (takes a sip) I'm in no mood to be fucked with. So do yourself a favor and le - 
VENTURA There's an explanation for all this, David. 
DAVID Who the fuck are you? 
VENTURA You and I know each other. You found me on the Internet. Silence. David stares at the man. 
DAVID What do you want? Why are you following me? 
VENTURA I'm here to help you. And first of all, it's very important that you calm down. 
DAVID Calm down? 
DAVID No! 
MCCABE You want to let it out, don't you David? You're about to tell me. Tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget. David shudders. It's coming. 
MCCABE Did you kill Sofia? McCabe stands tall, stunned and curious, still pressing to pull the nightmare out of him. 
INT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT - DAY - FLASHBACK 
The clown figurine on her stove-top falls over as we hear the front door kicked in. David enters, slamming the door behind him. He looks around what was once the site of such happiness. The same details he'd glimpsed long ago are now horrifying to him. He looks at a photo on the refrigerator. The same note: Call Dad! The exact expression, exact photograph he'd seen on his earlier visit. Now it is Julie who is in her place. He opens her drawer. Just some papers. And then... the drawing he'd once done of her. Now featuring Julie. He rips up the drawing, and proceeds to destroy the apartment until he stops, collecting himself. Takes a breath and... Smash. A lamp is broken over his head. Julie Gianni bends down to help him. A shard of the lamp-base is still in her hand. Julie's whole demeanor is that of a different girl. Even her voice is softer, almost exactly the knock-around sweetness of Sofia. 
JULIANNA I thought you were a vandal. 
DAVID (with difficulty) Who... are... you? 
JULIANNA I'm Sofia. 
DAVID You are not Sofia... you're not Sofia... 
JULIANNA I'm Sofia. 
DAVID Whatever. Julie starts to cry. Battling tears, she offers her heart and soul. 
JULIANNA David, honey. This will all be over soon. We'll be together again. You'll forget Julianna and I won't be afraid of you. Let me get you a cold towel. She exits. He struggles to rise. His head is a swirling mess. And then: 
ON KITCHEN DOORWAY Sofia slowly returns with towel. Her image still blurry. David advances, and faints into her arms. 
DAVID Sofia? 
SOFIA (whispers) Yes, David, I'm Sofia. I'm Sofia. He accepts it, all of it, whatever it is, just to hold her. They kiss, gently, then more powerfully. 
INT. SOFIA'S BEDROOM - DAY 
They make love, emotionally and deeply. Two bodies yearning to possess the other. Camera moves across their bodies, as David wipes frame to black, as the move continues onto her back. 
DAVID Where were you... Sofia doesn't answer, doesn't want to lose the moment. 
DAVID I don't want to know. (thrusting) Just tell me you love me. David keeps his face buried in her shoulder'. He doesn't want to look. The passion gives way to a mounting dread, as he hears a voice almost like Sofia's. 
JULIANNA (O.S.) I love you. I'm afraid of how powerful this is. He continues moving passionately, harder now. Julie responds to the overwhelming surge within David. She gives over to the waves of dark pleasure, riding him like a rocket. from hell. Harder now. Grabbing her hands and pulling them high above her head, clamping down with his own. Julie Gianni cries a deep, guttural sound of passion. This is what someone sounds like when they're not faking it. And then... slam... a pillow comes down over her face. 
DAVID What the fuck is happening? Julie begins to react to what is clearly no longer an advanced lovemaking session. 
DAVID I want to see your face! She grabs at the pillow. 
DAVID I want to see your face! David reaches orgasm, sobbing, recklessly out of control. Julie's body stops kicking and settles into silence. He loosens the pillow, and is rewarded with one last violent attempt at life. Her hand smacks his neck. He's so taut it bounces off. She grabs at his face one last time, her hand is left with enough power only to caress his face. She goes limp. Silence. David's crying turns to a whimper. He looks at the pillow over Julie's head. He's confused, a puddle of jagged adrenaline. He doesn't want to remove the pillow for fear of who could be underneath. He rises up, his elbow across her lifeless chest. With true horror, he knows he has to move his hand, but his hand will reveal who he's just killed. 
ON HER TORSO as his arm moves inexorably away from her chest. Quarter- inch by quarter-inch he inches it downward, across the top of her breasts... dreading the inevitable, not seeing it, and then... there it is. The mole between her breasts. 
INT. HALLWAY STAIRS - DAY 
David exits hurriedly, past some tenants, down the stairs. He looks up at his own reflection in the hallway mirror. 
He looks horribly disfigured. We hear the sound of breathing, encased in a mask. 
INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT -  (INTERROGATION # 4) 
McCabe sits across from David. McCabe looks away, haunted by the admission of guilt. 
DAVID I did it, didn't I? I don't... feel... like I killed someone. I feel like... 
DAVID I think I've been here before - McCabe strides purposefully past the Building Guard. Aaron shows the pass, and hustles to keep up. 
INT. SKYSCRAPER-63RD FLOOR/L.E. OUTER OFFICE AND HALLWAY- 
DAY The elevator door opens to reveal a very pleasant and peaceful environment. Comfortable lounging chairs. On the reception station is written - L.E. and underneath it the words: Life Extension Corporation. Two more Guards meet 
them. McCabe watches David, as Aaron releases him from the handcuffs. The group moves together. Senses are overwhelming David, as they approach the reception station. 
DAVID Her name is Libby. A stunning young woman rises and moves to greet them. 
LIBBY Good morning. I'm Libby. I'm here to assist you. Libby stares at David's masked face. It's slightly unsettling to her. 
MCCABE He's my son. He's very shy. 
LIBBY (smiling professionally) You're not. with the media or part. of any legal consortium, correct? 
MCCABE No. 
LIBBY Welcome to Life Extension. Have a look at our proposal. Please follow me. She-offers them two bound folders featuring the logo - L.E. - and guides them down the hallway, looking back with great style, beckoning, just as in David's dream recollections. 
MCCABE (to Aaron) You can wait out here. 
LIBBY You'll be meeting Rebecca Dearborn. (aside) My personal role model. 
ON HALLWAY WALLS Containing monitors with video-taped "tour guides." Talking heads expressing the convictions of Life Extension. Compassionate, expressive people. The bits of their testimonials echo phrases from David's own life. 
PATIENT #1 .and I'm not a "true believer" by nature. But the older you get, the more you see the flow of the future, and I made a choice... 
PATIENT #2 .why not embrace the future? I Believe the research - the future is in the union of the spiritual... and the scientific... Annoyed at everything around him, McCabe pulls David onward. 
INT. LIFE EXTENSION OFFICE  - DAY 
Aames and McCabe sit and wait in a warm wood-paneled office, proposals in hand. A glimpse shows words like Re- Evolve and Re-Experience, peppered with colorful photos of simple, life-affirming portraits of everyday life. It's well-appointed and well-marketed organization. McCabe regards David as the victim of a lunatic's scam. Injustice fuels McCabe. 
MCCABE (continuing, scoffing) "Cryonization - a journey of re- awakening after the preservation of the human body at extremely low temperatures." 
DAVID They laughed at Jules Verne too. 
MCCABE (a little sadly) David, you're not- Account Liaison REBECCA DEARBORN enters with paperwork. She is an electric presence. Efficient, caring and oddly compassionate. 
DEARBORN Mr. McCabe, how are you? I'm Rebecca Dearborn. (quick notice of mask) Life Extension, or L.E. as we like to refer to it, is a glimpse of the future... a ticket... not in the juvenile sense, but in the deeply meaningful sense that can only be borne in the human heart. 
The DNA codes of the human body have been broken. Soon, heart ailments, cancer and so much more, will be a thing of the past. Very simply, your anguish... your discontent... even your death is no longer necessary in a traditional sense. Whatever malady that hides behind that mask... is temporary. She looks directly at David, and it stirs him. McCabe studies her, and the operation. He thirsts for clues. David flips through the folder - toward the back, a panel of photos of storage tanks. Lavishly and warmly photographed, just like next year's cars in a magazine. 
DEARBORN Within an hour of your passing, L.E. will transfer your body to a vessel where you will be sealed and frozen at     196                   degrees below zero. Power outages, earthquakes, nothing will effect your suspension-hibernation. 
MCCABE Did you sign this contract, David? David looks down at pamphlet, looks up. 
DAVID What's the "Lucid Dream" option? 
DEARBORN Good choice. The Lucid Dream is Life Extension's newest option. For a little extra, we offer the cryonic union of science and entertainment. 
MCCABE (rueful, skeptical) "Cryo-tainment. " Dearborn spreads apart the paperwork on her desk to reveal a thin Video Monitor built into the glass table-top. Aames and McCabe peer into the table--top as Dearborn presses play. 
DEARBORN Some find this presentation helpful. 
INTERCUT 
ON MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION An appealing presentation begins         -- Man's Life. A generic happy-looking Man with graphics floating out of his mouth: Re-Emerge ...     . Re-Store                 .Re--Invent...a voice takes over for Dearborn. A wonderfully comforting tone is present in the narration. Like that of a parent. 
VENTURA David Aames. I think it's time we had a proper re-introduction. I'm Edmund Ventura from the oasis Project, formerly Life Extension --• 
L.E. 
DAVID Tech support. 
VENTURA Yes, I'm your Tech Support. We first met      150   years ago. 
DAVID Oh shit. You sold me the Lucid Dream. Ventura smiles. 
DAVID Well, what the hell happened? 
VENTURA I tried to warn you in the bar. I told you to exercise control, that it all depended on your mind. All of this, everything is your creation. And we're now heading toward your true moment, of choice. 
DAVID "True moment of choice?" 
VENTURA Yes. 
DAVID When did the Lucid Dream begin? 
VENTURA Remember the day of the nightclub? 
DAVID (trying to remember) Yes. 
EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
David is collapsed on the ground. His mask clutched in his hand, passed out. Rhythmic score. 
VENTURA (with importance) That night, when Sofia left you and you fell asleep on the pavement, that was the moment you chose for the splice... 
DAVID (remembers the word) The splice? 
FADE OUT ON MASK The mask has tumbled out of his hand. 
VENTURA Splice. The end of your "real" life and the beginning of L.E.'s Lucid Dream. A splice of many years which passed while you were frozen and dreaming. 
FADE UP ON MASK A moody day dawns. David's mask is just outside the reach of his outstretched hand. 
ON DAVID PASSED OUT ON STREET Sofia's hand reaches in, and awakens him. Everything is suddenly a little more vivid, a little more super-real. 
SOFIA Open your eyes. They walk away, down the street, into a beautiful Vanilla Sky. Sofia slips her arm around his shoulder, as we've seen earlier. 
VENTURA From the moment you woke up on that street, nothing was "real" in 
a traditional sense. Your Lucid Dream is monitored by Life Extension, and a panel of experts who follow your every thought. Even at this moment. 
INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 
The scene continues as David Aames rides the elevator. The compartment now rises above the first seven floors to reveal they are traveling upwards in an exterior elevator. Other skyscrapers pass by outside the window. 
VENTURA Forgive me. I'm blowing your mind. David looks down with dread. 
DAVID I'm not a big fan of heights. 
VENTURA I know. (continuing) We erased what really happened from your memory. 
DAVID (reaching to understand) ..erased? 
VENTURA Replaced by a better life under these beautiful Monet-like skies. 
friend, the one whose job you saved, who wrenched the company back in your control. 
INT. RISE PUBLICATIONS - DAY - FLASHBACK 
David exits the company elevator and returns to Aames Publications. Tipp is out in front of the employees and staffers who welcome him back. 
DAVID (warmly) Tommy. (vague memories) But then... somebody died. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT      - NIGHT 
David sits in front of the computer in bad physical shape. 
VENTURA You longed for Sofia. You shut yourself away for months. You were alone. You couldn't take the pain anymore. Headaches... you could barely function. 
DAVID I found you on the Internet. I signed the contract with you. And then... 
INT. MOTEL --- NIGHT -- FLASHBACK 
Aames takes pills, collapses. Music plays. 
PUSH INTO CLOSE UP ON DAVID IN ELEVATOR 
DAVID I remember... It comes back to him, powerfully. 
DAVID Somebody died. It was me. 
ON DAVID IN BODY BAG -- FLASHBACK It's zipped up. 
ON CRYONIC TANK -- FLASHBACK The plastic-wrapped body of David Aames is slipped into a tube, which is clamped shut. A Christmas tree in the background, as music continues. 
VENTURA And on a day in late December, you gave yourself to us. You're now in a suspended state. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT •-- MEMORIAL - DAY 
Friends and family clog the old apartment. Shelby looks out into the hallway and sees an old acquaintance. 
VENTURA Your friend Brian Shelby threw a three-day memorial in your old home. He was a true friend. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT - DAY 
Sofia ventures into David's apartment alone, taking in the environment and remembering the best moments of her brief encounter with David. 
VENTURA You were missed, David. She moves into close-up, and we see the wonder and the joy of a perfect love, nearly attained. She soaks in the beautiful, painful mystery of life. 
VENTURA It was Sofia who never fully recovered. It was she who somehow knew you best. And like you, she never forgot that one night where real, true love seemed possible. 
FLASHBACK - DAY David contemplates getting into the car with Julianna. He makes the choice that. will change this, and his next life. 
VENTURA Consequences, David. It's the little things. 
INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT -- DAY 
Sofia exits the shot and we're left with an empty frame. 
ON DAVID -- IN ELEVATOR David turns from looking out the window of the elevator. 
DAVID (tears in eyes) The little things. There's nothing bigger, is there? 
EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY 
