Edward:  There it is.  Why would such a notion come into your mind? 
Boy:  They're meat-eaters. 
Edward nods at him.  A different girl speaks. 
Girl:  They have large claws. 
Edward:  Children...  Those We Don't Speak Of, have not breached our borders in many years.  We do NOT go into THEIR woods, they do NOT come into OUR valley.  It is a truce.  We do not threaten them.  Why would they do this? 
At a meeting of the Council of Elders, Vivian Percy is speaking.  She is there, with her husband, Robert, August Nicholson, Victor, Edward and Tabitha Walker, Alice Hunt, Mrs. Clack, three other men, and one other woman.  The women are knitting, since their hands are not needed for the meeting, and they smile and giggle. 
Vivian:  And we ought not to.... overlook The Flight of the Birds.  We didn't have it last year, and I, for one, missed it desperately.  And I know your wife missed the children, dressed in feathers and such. 
Tabitha:  I am fond of it. 
She looks hopefully at her husband. 
Edward:  I do not have a say in this matter.  August Nicholson is chair of today's meeting. 
A door opens at the end of the meeting hall, and all turn to see who has come in.  It is a man with his hat in his hands, respectful. 
Man:  There is a young man who has requested a word with the elders. 
August:  Well, do have him come forward. 
The young man is Lucius Hunt, only son of the widow Alice Hunt.  She jumps a bit when she sees him, but smiles.  He wears denim work-pants, a gray shirt, and a brown jacket.  His hair is a bit curly, but short, and there is a scar on his lip.  He is clearly nervous and sways from one foot to the other.  He holds a note, which he reads aloud. 
Alice:  What we SEEM to have amongst us, is a predator of some type, most likely a coyote, or a wolf.  Its manner of... of killing and removing the fur, but leaving the flesh torn, may be a sign that this animal suffers from madness.  And for the next fortnight we should be vigilant for sightings of this coyote.  Keep careful watch over our little ones, as they play on the hills.  As for the other notion...  We do not believe our boundary has been breached.  Those We Don't Speak Of are much...  LARGER creatures than coyotes.  And we would know, if they had been here. 
The villagers murmur. 
Outside, villagers stride away, back to their work.  Edward walks with his eldest daughter, Kitty.  She is beautiful, with red hair and fair skin, very slender and willowy. 
Kitty:  Ahhh, it's frightful, this business of the coyote, is it not, Papa? 
Edward:  Do not feel worried, Kitty. 
Kitty:  You are not troubled? 
Edward:  I am certain it will all end soon. 
Kitty (slyly):  Can we speak on other matters, then? 
Edward:  It would be a relief. 
Kitty (giggly):  I'm in love! 
They stand behind a house, possibly their own. 
Kitty:  I want your permission to marry, Papa! 
Edward is incredulous that his daughter would come to him and ask to marry, without her supposed-fiance present. 
Edward:  There's a proper manner in which these things are supposed to happen, such as the boy would normally be standing next to you, in a moment such as this!  Where is the BOY in all this, Kitty?! 
Kitty:  Good afternoon, Lucius. 
Lucius stands up and turns to face her, wary, leaning back slightly. 
Kitty:  I wanted to, to... to tell you something.  I love you, Lucius.  I love you like the day is long!  I love you more than the sun and the moon together!  And if you feel the same way, then we should not hide it any longer.  It's a gift, love is.  We should be thankful!  We should bellow it out with all the breath in our lungs!  Thank you! Thank you!  Thank you! 
She stops waving her arms about and smooths her skirt, smiling at him.  He looks at her strangely, almost expressionless. 
Kitty lays on her bed, sobbing and screaming.  Her younger sister, Ivy, sits at her side, stroking her shoulder and singing a lullaby.  She has reddish hair, too, but wears it comparatively short, about shoulder-length, barely any longer than some of the boys in the village.  She wears a pretty blue denim dress. 
Ivy:  Shhh.  Shhh.  Baby, sleep, gently sleep, life is long is long and love is deep.  Time will be sweet for thee. All the world to see.  Time to look about and know, how the shadows come and go.  How the breeze stirs the trees, how the blossoms grow. 
We see their parents, and the four youngest of the six walker daughters, standing about at the entrance to the room. It is clear that that is Kitty and Ivy's space, that they are close together in age (perhaps twenty-one and nineteen respectively), while their younger sisters are all between about three and ten or so. 
Lucius brings firewood to August.  The oil lamp is burning dimly. 
August:  I often wondered if yu and my son bonded because neither of you were fond of speaking.  You're very kind. You must pardon my manners, I haven't slept in many nights. 
Some of the boys are at a place called "The Stump," where they are playing a game.  Sort of like a test of manhood, they stand on the stump with their back to the woods at night, and see how long they can stay without getting scared. Tonight it it Jamison's turn. 
Christop Crane:  You are doing capital, Jamison!  Just a few more moments, huh?  Gather your bravery. 
The other boys press in close. 
Christop:  Do not jostle about so!  You'll ruin my shirt. 
Jamison whimpers, and there is a moaning from the woods. 
Girl:  Why don't they grab it? 
Ivy sits in a pretty blue dress on a bench outside a building.  Her head is turned to the side and she is listening. She hears distant shouting.  It is clear once she stands up that she is blind.  She takes a lovely wooden cane and swings it back and forth, using this method to guide herself toward the sounds of the fight. 
Ivy (off-screen; forceful):  Noah Percy. 
The fighting slows a bit. 
Ivy:  Stop your fussing, right this moment. 
The kids murmur and laugh.  He disentangles himself, and jumps up, following her away. 
They stand at the door of the "Quiet Room," a place children are sent when they misbehave.  There is a lamp, several chairs, a coat-rack, and not much else. 
Ivy:  You're in trouble, you know. 
Noah:  No hitting.  No hitting. 
Ivy:  I'm to place you in the quiet room. 
Noah:  Um, I'll cry quarts. 
Ivy:  What if we strike a deal? 
Noah:  Yeah, capital idea. 
Ivy:  It would be prudent to keep our deal a secret, can you do that? 
Ivy (excited):  Up the hill to the resting rock! 
Noah (grinning):  No cheating. 
Ivy (offended):  What a deeply scandalous thing to say.  I insist you take that back.  Is that the school bell? 
Noah turns to look at the school and Ivy takes off running the other direction.  She knows her way around very well. Noah turns back, looks at her, looks down and smiles, then runs after her. 
Noah:  Arrhhhh!  Ivy, you cheated! 
Ivy:  I know!  I'm sorry! 
They laugh and run all the way to the resting rock.  Ivy is very fast, but no match for Noah's long legs, and he barely beats her there.  Lucius hunt is sitting there, eating a muffin, which he shares with Noah.  Ivy sits down, catching her breath. 
Ivy:  My sister cried a lot. 
Lucius seems somewhat surprised that she knows he is there, given that she is blind.  She moves her head and eyes like a sighted person, but only because she did not lose her sight until several years into her life.  Noah runs off somewhere. 
Ivy:  You wonder how I recognized you? 
She nodds and leans on her cane. 
Ivy:  Some people - just a handful, mind you - give off the tiniest color.  It's faint, like a haze.  It's the only thing I ever see in the darkness.  Papa has it, too.  Do you wonder what your color is?  Well, that I won't tell you. It's not ladylike to speak of such things.  You shouldn't even have asked. 
She is making a joke for herself, and smiles at it.  It is clear that she is very strange, running like a boy, wearing her hair short, making jokes to herself, and her strangeness seems directly tied-in with the fact that she is blind. 
Lucius:  You run like a boy. 
Noah takes his hand and leads him around the side of the rock.  He is mentally retarded, but he knows that something has changed this afternoon. 
At the meeting house, Lucius reads another note to the elders. 
Lucius:  Today at Resting Rock, Noah Percy handed Ivy Walker berries of the bad color.  When asked where he found these berries, for they were not like others I have seen, he pointed to the drawing upon resting rock. 
We see Lucius, Ivy, and Noah staring at the side of the rock (although Ivy does not see it).  There is a drawing of a strange, reddish-colored creature, with skeletons all around it. 
Lucius (off-screen):  It is my belief that Noah Percy has entered the woods, and has done so on many occasions.  It is also my belief that, because of his innocence, those creatures who reside in the woods did not harm him. 
Back in the meeting house, he continues to read.  The circle is in a slightly different order today, more mixed up, and facing a different direction. 
Lucius:  This strengthens my feeling that they will let me pass if they sense I am not a threat. 
Alice (off-screen, later in the day):  We shall speak of the town, just this once, and we shall never speak of it again. 
She sits, knitting yarn that is wound around Lucius's hands. 
Alice:  Your father left for the market on a Tuesday, at a quarter past nine in the morning.  He was found, robbed and naked, in the filthy river, two days later. 
Lucius begins to shake, and tears stream down his face. 
Lucius:  Why'd you tell me this blackness? 
Alice:  So you will know the nature of what you desire. 
Lucius:  I do not desire it.  (Angry) My intentions are true to my word. I think of NOTHING but the people of this village. 
Alice:  You remind me of a colt sometimes. 
She pauses a moment. 
Alice:  What makes you think he has feelings for me? 
Lucius (whispering):  He never touches you. 
Lucius and some other boys walk around the perimeter of the village, painting yellow marks on tall poles.  They wear cloaks of yellow wool, the safe color.  Lucius sets down his paint bucket and pushes his hood back, then slowly, purposefully, he walks into the woods.  He does not go far, just to a bush where there are red berries.  He plucks a branch of them.  He is very solemn.  There is a creaking noise, a crack, and a growl, then some rustling.  Lucius sees movement out of the corner of his eyes.  He turns and leaves the woods slowly. 
It is night.  Ivy is crouched, and she stands. 
Ivy:  There's no escape! 
She turns and perceives Lucius by his "color," as she calls the haze she sees around him when he is near her.  She is surprised. 
Ivy:  Oh, hellO!  I was just playing a game with Noah.  The rascal must have gone to hide in my house again. 
She crouches to retrieve her cane, then stands. 
Ivy (loudly):  Houses are agaist the rules!  (whispering) He knows that.  (normal) Are you all right? 
She looks at Lucius with some concern, for he is more solemn than usual.  He walks her to her front porch. 
Ivy:  We're tending to the children tonight, Kitty and I.  I should be with her.  Be well. 
She steps on to the porch, then turns, steps back down, and looks at him, hands perched on her cane. 
Finton:  Lucius?  Lucius? 
He crawls to the hatch and opens it, peering down.  There is a flash of red as a creature walks by, spikey needles sticking out the back.  Finton drops the hatch on his head, lets it fall into place, and latches it.  He sits whimpering in pain for a moment, then gets up and rings a warning bell over and over again, a steady clanging. 
All around the village, people hurry into their homes, exclaiming in fright.  Lucius marches steadily through them, helping people inside, but he his making his way towards one place, the Walker home. 
Kitty, Ivy, and their four younger sisters are sitting on a sofa in their living room, when they hear the bells.  Noah runs through the door, happy and excited, clapping and waving his arms. 
Noah:  They're coming.  They're coming! 
Kitty:  Close the door.  Noah, close the door, okay?  Close the door. 
Kitty bustles around, putting the edge of the door in Noah's hands, and getting her littlest sisters down into the celler, where they can lock the hatch and keep safe from the creatures.  She does a good job of maintaining a calm demeanor.  Noah keeps clapping and shouting. 
Kitty:  Noah, come on inside! 
Noah:  Come on inside! 
Outside, the last villagers are getting into their homes, shouting.  Lucius helps a woman bolt her shutters, then quickly dashes around the corner as a creature comes up to the door.  The creature wears a red, hooded robe with wide sleeves, almost monk-like.  There are brown spines growing in a bunch out of a hump on its back.  It has long claws. The face is a snout sticking out of the hood.  It makes a strange growling noise, almost a vooooomph.  It scratches the door. 
Ivy stands at the front door of her house, waiting. 
Noah:  They're coming.  Come on in! 
Kitty:  Let's close the door. 
Kitty manages to get everyone except Ivy inside the celler. 
August (off-screen):  Creatures have never attacked us without reason.  Does anyone here know of a reason why these events may have occured? 
A woman approaches the elders, who sit in a line at the front of the meeting house.  She hands a note to Vivian Percy, Noah's mother. 
Vivian:  Who has written this note? 
No one answers.  She stands, clears her throat, and reads it aloud. 
Vivian:  Please read so that all may hear.  I have brought this burden upon us.  On the day before last, I crossed the forbidden line into Covington Woods... 
The villagers gasp aloud, and murmur. 
Vivian:  ... and was witnessed there by Those We Don't Speak Of.  I am deeply sorry.  I have shamed myself and my family.  I pray that my actions will cause no further pains.  With deepest sorrow...... Lucius Hunt. 
She sits.  The crowd murmurs.  The elders take each others hands.  Everyone turns to look at Lucius in the back, as Edward walks back to talk to him.  Many stand up.  Noah follows Edward, giggling, and has to be led back by one of the men.  Edward walks right up to Lucius, who has tears in his eyes, and does not raise them from the floor. 
Edward (kindly):  Do not fret. 
Edward crouches, and Lucius slowly looks into his eyes. 
Edward:  You are fearless in a way that I shall never know.  Lucius shakes badly, but manages the tiny beginnings of a smile. 
Outside, tables are set up for a banquet.  It is Kitty's wedding day.  She sits next to her father, wearing a filmy white gown and veil, holding his hand.  Her husband-to-be is next to her, followed by Ivy, and Noah.  At least ninety-five people live in this village, probably more, and all have turned out for the wedding. 
Edward:  We are grateful... for the time we have been given. 
There are quiet cheers, and the crowd begins to talk and pass food around. 
There is a pause. 
Lucius.  It is cold outside.  You ought to go in. 
Ivy:  Why are you on this porch? 
Lucius:  It is not safe. 
Ivy:  There are other porches.  Do you find me too much of a tomboy?  I do long to do boy things.  Like that game the boys play at the stump.  They put their backs to the woods, and see how long they can wait before getting scared. That's so exciting.  I understand you hold the record.  It will never be broken, they say. 
Lucius:  It's just children's games. 
Ivy:  How is it you are brave when all the rest of us shake in our boots? 
Lucius:  I do not worry about what will happen, only what needs to be done.  How did you know I was here? 
Ivy:  I saw you out the window. 
Lucius is stunned.  He looks at her strangely. 
Ivy:  No... I won't tell you your color.  Stop asking. 
She pauses, and then ventures something VERY daring, never betraying how much she is risking by what she says. 
Ivy:  When we are married, will you dance with me?  I find dancing very agreeable. 
Lucius is stunned again.  Ivy has just proposed marriage to him, or rather, she has stated that it is inevitable.  He is shocked into honesty. 
Ivy:  Kitty... I wanted to speak with you first.  I would not want you to feel pain, in any fashion.  You are my cherished one.  If you were to feel badly about Lucius, I would not have it.  One love to sacrifice another love is not right. 
Kitty:  There is nothing you could do that would sacrifice my love for you.  You are my cherished one as well.  God bless you and your life together. 
It is obviously hard for her to say this, and she seems like she doesn't entirely believe her own words.  She takes Ivy's hand and wipes the tears from her face. 
There is a knock on the door of Lucius's workshop.  Lucius is reading a letter as he unlatches the door.  Noah stands outside on a lower step.  His eyes are bright red from crying, and he is crying still.  His hair is tangled and he is unkempt.  Something has upset him greatly.  This startles Lucius, who immediately thinks of his Ivy. 
Lucius:  What's happened? 
Noah steps inside.  He tries to say something, but his mouth won't make the words. 
Lucius:  Is this about Ivy and myself? 
He turns and walks to his desk, and starts to speak. 
Lucius:  I know you are very fond of her.  And I know she is fond of you.  There are different types of love. 
As he turns toward Noah, he stops, startled, and looks down.  Noah's hand is clutched against Lucius's belly.  He pulls a bloody knife out of Lucius's belly. 
Noah:  Ohhhh.... 
Lucius falls to the floor, groaning for God and for Ivy.  Noah can't seem to make up his mind about what to do.  He puts down the knife, then takes it up again and stabs Lucius several more times. 
Mr. and Mrs. Percy are getting ready for a meeting.  There is a thump as Noah sits down on the porch. 
Vivian:  Noah?  You'll be late for the meeting hall.  Would you like your father to walk you there?  Noah? 
She runs into something soft, and crouches down.  She begins to shake as she feels him there.  A man runs up the steps and sees her.  He shouts for Mr. Walker, who runs inside the workshop.  Ivy clutches at Lucius, running her hands through his hair frantically, eyes wide. 
Ivy:  Papa... I cannot see his color. 
Edward:  Ivy.  Come away.  COme away. 
She shrieks as he drags her gently off of Lucius and hands her to another man. 
Edward:  Take her!!!  Take her!!! 
Mrs. Clack stands in front of the medical building, her shawl clutched around her shoulders.  Many of the villagers stand there, waiting for news of Lucius. 
Mrs. Clack:  He has suffered a great deal.  He may pass at any time.  Please give him all your prayers and good thoughts.  He will hear them. 
Ivy stands off to one side, blood smeared across the front of her blouse, her face expressionless.  Many of the vilagers look at her, and give her her distance.  She sways back and forth on her cane.  She begins to shake. 
Inside the quiet room, Noah sits in his long underwear and trousers.  The bloody clothes have been taken from him for cleaning.  The door unlocks.  Mr. Percy lets a stern-faced Ivy inside.  She hands her cane to him, and walks straight forward to Noah, grasping him so she knows where he is.  Then she slaps him, again and again and again.  Mr. Percy grabs her and leads her out of the quiet room.  Noah begins to shriek in rage and confusion.  Ivy has told him not to hit, and yet here she is, hitting him.  Mr. Percy shuts and locks the door from the outside, and Noah shouts and bangs about. 
Ivy sits in her living room facing her father, shaky but firm, as usual. 
Ivy:  I am in love. 
Edward:  I know. 
Ivy:  He is in love with me. 
Edward:  I know. 
Edward approaches Ivy, who sits in a rocking chair on their front porch.  She has a shawl around her shoulders, for the day is chill. 
Edward:  The moment I heard my daughter's vision had finally failed her, and that she would forever be blind, I was sitting in that very chair.  I was so ashamed. 
Edward and Ivy walk along the edge of a pasture, toward the very edge of the village. 
Edward:  What do you know about your grandfather? 
Ivy is unsure, but she answers as best she can. 
Ivy:  He was the wealthiest man in the towns? 
Edward:  That he was, he had a gift for that.  If he was given one dollar, in less than a fortnight, he would have turned it into five.  You do not know of money.  It is not part of our life here.  Money can be a wicked thing.  It can turn men's hearts black.  Good men's hearts.  My father could not see this, for all his gifts.  He was a poor judge of a man's character.  Your grandfather WAS a good man, Ivy.  He had a laugh that could be heard three houses away.  He used to hold my hand as I hold yours.  He taught me strength, and showed me love, and told me to lead when others would only follow.  Your grandfather, James Walker, died in his sleep.  A man put a gun to his head and shot him while he dreamed.  I tell you this so you will understand some of the reasons for my actions, and the actions of others.  You are a strong one, Ivy.  You lead when others would only follow.  You see light, when there is only darkness.  I trust you.  I trust you among all others. 
Ivy:  Thank you, father. 
They stop walking.  Ivy has tears on her face.  Edward holds her by her shoulders. 
Edward:  Ivy, do you know where you are? 
Ivy (uncomfortable):  At the old shed that is not to be used. 
Edward smiles at his daughter's sense of direction and goes to open the padlock on the door. 
Edward:  Yeah.  Ivy. 
Ivy:  Yes, Father? 
Ivy:  Christop... you needent be scared.  We have the magic rocks.  They will keep us safe. 
Christop:  Why have we not heard of these rocks before? 
Finton:  Christop, please, do not leave us. 
Ivy:  There is nothing to fear. 
Christop:  Then why do you wear the cloak of the safe color? 
Ivy:  We will light torches.  It will be safe. 
Christop:  It is forbidden. 
Finton:  Christop... 
Christop turns and leaves. 
Ivy and Finton stretch a tarp between some trees.  It is raining hard.  They sit underneath the tarp, waiting for the rain to stop.  There are noises from around them in the woods.  The rain freezes on the branches.  The forest is bare. 
Finton:  Ivy...  There's something in these woods.  It turns my stomach to rot. 
He takes her hand and puts it on the bag of magic rocks. 
Finton:  You will be safe.  They will not harm you, because you cannot see.  They will take pity on you, the way they took pity on Noah, when... when he ventured into the woods.  They will kill me, Ivy.  I cannot stay.  You're better in these woods than most boys.  Anyone would say so. 
Ivy:  It is MY burden, Finton.  You may go. 
Edward:  What was the purpose of our leaving?  Let us not forget it was out of hope of something good and right. 
Robert Percy:  You should not have made this decision without us.  You have gone too far. 
Edward:  I'm guilty, Robert!  I made a decion of the heart!  I cannot look into another's eyes and see the same look I see in August's without justification!  It is too painful, I cannot bear it! 
Mrs. Clack:  You have jeopardized everything we've made. 
Edward (reproachful):  Who do you think will continue this place, this life?  Do you plan to live forever?  It is in them that our future lies!  It is in Ivy and Lucius that this... this way of life will continue.  Yes, I have risked.  I hope I am always able to risk everything for the just and right cause!  If we did not make this decision, we could never again call ourselves innocent.  And that, in the end, is what we have protected here!  Innocence!  That, I'm not ready to give up. 
August:  Let her go.  If it ends, it ends.  We can move towards hope, it's what's beautiful about this place.  We must not run from heartache.  You know, my brother was slain in the towns.  The rest of my family died here.  Heartache is a part of life.  We know that now.  Ivy's running toward hope, let her run.  If this place is worthy, she'll be successful in her quest. 
Mrs. Clack:  How could you have sent HER?  She's blind. 
Edward:  She's more capable than most in this village... and she is led by love.  The world moves for love.  It kneels before it in awe. 
Ivy sits under the tarp in the dark, her hands over her ears.  Shakily, she sings the lullabye she sang to Kitty after Lucius refused her marriage proposal.  All around her, the forest is creaking and groaning. 
Ivy:  ... all the world to see.  Time look about and know.  How the shadows come and go.  How the breeze stirs the trees.  How the blossoms grow.  Sleep, baby, sleep.  Sleep gently sleep... 
Daylight.  Ivy walks through the now-muddy forest, swinging her cane back and forth, her cloak smeared brown at the bottom, and smudges all over.  She walks forward to a ledge, and feeling no way beyond it, she turns to go back.  The ground gives way.  She shrieks, but manages to hold the edge.  The mud is too slippery to hold it for long.  She slips further into the hole, but she has caught her hands in some roots.  She whimpers, but manages to swing her bundle and cane up onto solid ground, and then she hauls herself, grunting, out of the hole.  It is very deep.  She is covered in mud.  Gasping, she makes her way around the hole, to a strange stumps sticking out of the ground.  The mud is all over her cloak. 
Edward (off-screen):  There did exist rumors of creatures in these woods.  It is in one of the history books I used to teach in the towns. 
Grunting, crying, she tries to wipe the mud from her cloak and arms, but it is everywhere.  She cannot get it off. 
Later in the day, she has let her cloak dry, and much of the mud has caked and fallen off, though there is still some. She swings her cane back and forth, checking for obstacles.  There is a crack.  She taps her cane again.  It is broken.  She pulls it apart and drops it.  There is a rustling from the woods around her.  She searches with her hands for a rock, and tosses it in the direction of the sound.  The rustling comes from another direction now, louder and louder.  She stumbles off in a random direction, panting and whimpering, whacking branches away from her face, but the sound is getting closer.  She s crying now.  She stops in a small clearing.  There are red berries all around her, and bits of snow on the ground.  She cannot see them.  There is a growl.  She turns slowly around.  One of the creatures stands just at the edge of the clearing. 
The elders gather around Lucius in the sick-room.  He is pale, and his skin is mottled.  His mouth hangs open with his breathing. 
Edward:  His will to live is very strong. 
Ivy strides through the forest, using the stick as a cane, tapping it against trees and ground.  Suddenly the texture changes.  There are rocks underfoot.  She goes back and forth to check and be sure, then drops her sack and pulls the watch and list out of it.  She takes off her cloak, and starts jogging down the road, using the stick to check and make sure she is still on the stone path. 
Edward (off-screen; memory):  A half day's journey will bring you to a hidden road.  You alone will follow the road, and leave Covington woods.  You are to tell no one in the towns where we are, and return with haste. 
A fire burns in the Walker home.  Edward and Tabitha hold hands, standing by the door.  They seem to come to a decision. Tabitha locks the door, and she and Edward walk into another part of the house. 
Ivy is still jogging down the road, checking every few feet to make sure she is on the right path.  She yelps, as she slams into an ivy-covered obstacle that flexes back and forth.  She drops the cane and checks down the sides of this wall to see if there is another point to get up it from.  There isn't.  She steadies herself, and grunts as she jumps onto the wall and climbs up. 
Edward sets the locked black box down on a table, takes a key from his pocket, and opens it, reverently.  He takes a bundle of some kind out and hands it to Tabitha, and then a piece of a newspaper that reads, 'Billionaire Walker Shot to Death.' 
Mrs. Clack (voice-over):  My sister did not live past her 23rd birthday.  A group of men raped and killed her.  They stuffed her in a dumpster, three blocks rom our apartment. 
Now we see some of the contents of the box.  There are books, papers, oil certificates, and photographs.  Edward pulls one particular photograph out, and holds it up to look at it. 
August:  My brother worked in an emergency room downtown.  A drug addict came in with a wound to his ribs.  My brother tried to dress the wound.  He pulled a gun from his jacket, then he shot my brother through his left eye. 
We see the photo now.  It is a shot of most of the elders, and the year appears to be 1980, maybe a little earlier. Alice Hunt is there, holding baby Lucius in her arms.  Edward and Tabitha are there, Tabitha pregnant with Kitty. Mrs. Clack and Victor stand in the background, shyly.  Robert and Vivian Percy are there.  Little Noah is not with them, though he probably is older than Lucius.  And August Nicholson and his wife stand off to the side. 
Alice:  My husband, Michael, left for the supermarket at a quarter past nine in the morning.  He was found with no money and no clothes, in the East River, three days later. 
Edward:  My father was shot by a business partner, who then hanged himself in my father's closet.  They had argued over money.  I am a professor.  I teach American History at the University of Pennsylvania.  I have an idea that I would like to talk to you about. 
There is a siren.  We see a view from the inside of a vehicle.  Ivy has just managed the climb to to top of the wall, and has dropped down on the other side.  The driver of the vehicle talks through a walkie-talkie. 
Ivy (near tears):  Please, sir, we must make haste. 
Driver:  Well you... you live in there? 
Ivy:  I do, sir. 
Walkie-talkie:  Breaker. 
The driver picks up his radio and brings it to his face, about to check in. 
Ivy:  What is your name? 
Driver:  Kevin. 
Ivy:  Kevin.  You have kindness in your voice.  I did not expect that. 
Kevin pauses a moment, but then he seems to come to a decision.  It is the right one. 
Kevin:  We have guard shacks every ten miles around the perimeter of the preserve.  We keep medical supplies in there in case of animal bites or related injuries. 
Ivy is hopeful, almost stunned. 
Ivy:  You can find the things written on the paper? 
Kevin nods, but she does not see it.  He may not yet have realized that she is blind. 
Kevin:  You have to wait here. 
