VIRTUOSITY by Eric Bernt 3rd Rewrite 8/24/94 
VIRTUOSITY 
by 
Eric Bernt 
THIRD REWRITE   August 24, 1994 
Two men bolt recklessly through a downtown street. Hunters hot on the trail of their prey in an urban jungle. 
The sidewalk is crowded with people. So is the street. Too many people, not enough cement. Los Angeles, 1997. 
Summer, probably August. 103 degrees. Heat shimmers off the horizon. Making the sky look peculiar. 
The men keep running. Passed a GUY sitting at a bus stop, watching a television in his lap. YOU HEAR the NEWSCASTER. 
NEWSCASTER (V. 0.) As L. A. P. D. officers gather evidence at this grisly crime scene, you can only ask yourselves —— what kind of lunatic would commit such unthinkable crimes? (a beat) The three adjectives which best describe this killer are sadistic, intelligent, and dangerous... 
The guy pays little attention to the broadcast. He seems almost bored by it. Like this kind of news is commonplace. Or he's got more important things on his mind. 
Everybody is sweating. Including the two men struggling to swim upstream in the river of pedestrians. 
Their uniforms are freshly pressed. Their shoes just recently shined. Hair tightly cropped. Faces perfectly shaved. Clearly men proud to wear the badge of the Los Angeles Police Department. The guy in the lead is 
PARKER BARNES His body is a running back's. His endurance a marathoner's. His face one you'd want for your own. He's in his 30s. If he was in his 20s, you'd still be jealous. 
His partner is JOHN DONLEY, late 20s, eager to prove himself. He struggles to keep up with Parker. John accidently knocks over several pedestrians. They give no reaction, except to pick themselves up and continue on their way. 
Parker and John keep charging. Their conversation breathless: 
JOHN I can't get over how different you look. 
PARKER (ruefully) Five years can be a bitch, huh? 
They split-up. The Maitre D', still facing the front doors, repeats his greeting to no one in particular. 
MAITRE D' Good afternoon. May I help you? 
Parker spots Sid 6.7 across the room. Without hesitation the hunter chases his prey.  Gun out and firing. NOT what you would call Standard Police Procedure. 
Bullets riddle Sid 6.7's table as he dives from his chair. He lands next to a bowling ball bag, which sits beneath his table. 
John charges from the other direction until a WOMAN gets up from her chair, standing directly in John's line of fire. 
JOHN (to the Woman) Lady, move! 
Before she can do so, Sid 6.7 stands behind the Woman, grabbing her and throwing her across the table into Parker. CRASH! They tumble to the floor. 
In the same movement, Sid 6.7 removes a gun from inside his jacket and shoots John in the shoulder before he can fire. John's gun flies from his hand. Sid 6.7 advances toward him. 
Parker struggles to his feet. Aims his weapon. Sid 6.7 does the same, but without looking. BOOM! Parker gets a bullet through his shooting arm. His wound IDENTICAL to John's. Parker's weapon tumbles to the floor as his arm goes limp. 
Parker charges him wildly, but Sid 6.7 brutally kicks him in the stomach. In perfect rhythm with the symphony playing in the background. Parker doubles over, gasping for breath. Another kick drops Parker to his knees. 
SID 6.7 (to Parker) I'm going to rehearse with your friend a while, then I'll be back to perform a new piece with you. 
He grabs his bowling bag and SLAMS it into John's head, knocking him out. Sid 6.7 puts John's unconscious body over his shoulder. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) If you get hungry, I'd recommend the escargot. They're delicious. 
He carries John and the bowling ball bag into the kitchen. Parker scrambles to his gun, and races after Sid 6.7. 
INSIDE THE RESTAURANT KITCHEN 
Parker charges through SOUS CHEFS chopping vegetables, who work undistracted. The Vegetables look plastic. 
Parker turns a corner, stopping fast. At the other end of the aisle stands Sid 6.7, who presses his gun against the head of a frightened BUSBOY. Sid 6.7 holds the Busboy's body in front of his own as a shield. 
PARKER (to Sid 6.7) Where's John? 
SID 6.7 Performing solo. (a beat) Enjoying the concert so far? 
Advancing up the aisle, Parker levels his gun at Sid 6.7 with his good arm. Now, all work comes to a stop as the Sous Chefs watch the showdown. 
PARKER Recital's over, asshole. 
He fires directly through the chest of the innocent Busboy hitting Sid 6.7. 
The Sous Chefs gasp in horror as the Busboy drops through Sid 6.7's grasp to the floor. Dead. 
Sid 6.7 stares at Parker in disbelief. Blood is now visible flowing from a bullet hole in Sid 6.7's shoulder, which was caused by the same bullet. Sid 6.7's arm dangles uselessly. His gun lies on the floor. 
His hair is long and ragged. His face is unshaven. A scar across his cheek. A hoop earring in one ear. His outfit a filthy prison uniform. 
John's outfit matches Parker's. Physically, he looks as clean—cut as his virtual rendering. Except that he is convulsing. Violently. 
His flailing appendages repeatedly hit the apparatus around him. Like an epileptic having a grand mal seizure. It's ugly. Frightening. 
PARKER (barely conscious) SOMEBODY.. .DO SOMETHING! 
TWO PARAMEDICS burst through the doors and rush to John. The paramedics inject him. Fibrillate him. Repeatedly. 
The simulator's designer, DARYL LINDENMEYER, 40s, high— strung, intense, and brilliant beyond words, stands by the equipment protectively. He is far more concerned for the safety of his machines than he is for John's life. 
John's body goes limp. His vital signs flat. The Paramedics record the time of death and cover the body with a sheet. They begin to assemble a gurney to wheel him out. 
DEANE (annoyed to Wallace) What the hell happened? 
WALLACE (pointing to needles) Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real. 
DEANE (angrily) Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world. 
WALLACE (annoyed, to Lindenmeyer) I was assured the problem was corrected. 
LINDENMEYER I did fix it.. I told you I did. I don't know why it happened again. 
DEANE Again?! 
COX (a beat) My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate. 
DEANE (coldly, to Wallace) Why wasn't I told? 
WALLACE Black book dollars, black book operation. You pay me for results, not how for how I get you there. 
COX (to Deane) I'll tell you one thing -— there is no way in hell we should allow any real officers to train in this damn thing. 
DEANE Then about all I've spent $37 million developing is a very expensive way to control the prison population. 
After giving Wallace a cold, hard stare -- namely at his hand stitched lapel, his gold watch, and his diamond-studded cufflinks, she exits. Wallace follows after her quickly. You now notice that the chair Dr. Madison Carter had occupied is now empty. She left a while ago. 
Cox remains. Lindenmeyer hurriedly examines the simulator as if it were his child. There are several scratches, but no major damage. He looks relieved. 
PARKER (struggling to sit up) He...only had a year left on his sentence. 
LINDENMEYER (annoyed) How much do you think I care? 
Parker, still not fully conscious, hurls himself at Lindenmeyer. 
LINDENMEYER (CONT' D) (hysterical) Don't touch me!...DON'T TOUCH ME!!! 
He flails his arms wildly. Nearly spasming. This is clearly a man who should never drink coffee. TWO armed GUARDS, who've been standing in the background, pull Parker off Lindenmeyer and throw him to the ground. 
Lindenmeyer watches with satisfaction as the guards put Parker in handcuffs and leg chains. 
COX I'll walk him out. 
The Guards back off as Cox helps Parker to his feet. 
COX (CONT'D) (to Parker) You all right? 
PARKER (still clearing his head) Why'd.. .you pull me out? 
COX Donley started experiencing the attack for real. If I hadn't gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you. (a beat) You may not believe this, Parker, 
but I still consider us friends. 
He helps Parker toward the exit as he continues having difficulty with his balance. 
OUTSIDE LETAC 
The building is heavily-guarded. Razor wire, land mines, armed sentries. Nobody who shouldn't be here gets anywhere near here. 
Cox leads Parker by the arm to a waiting prison transport. The two guards walk behind at a distance. Two more by the transport. The chain between Parker's legs keeps his steps short. 
COX What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for? 
PARKER He was a computer program for crissake. 
COX You were supposed to act as if everything was real. 
PARKER Real, my ass. It's an overblown game. (a beat) Anybody ever catch that fucking psycho? 
COX Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. (eyeing Parker's scar) New scar —— you making it okay in there? 
PARKER (head down) I'm getting by. 
ON THE MONITORS 
around the room, Sid 6.7 walks to a pay phone and dials a number. 
INSIDE AN INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR 
Wallace walks toward the building's entrance. His footsteps ECHO. His cellular phone RINGS. 
WALLACE This is Wallace... 
SID 6.7 (V. 0.) (through phone) As a matter of fact, little man, you're wrong. I think, therefore, I am. 
Click. Sid 6.7 hangs-up. Wallace stops, staring at his phone in disbelief. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE FOLSOM COUNTY MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISON 
Parker is led into the Inmate Receiving Room at gunpoint. He is ordered to remove his clothing. 
He stands completely naked, arms held out to the sides, as he is strip searched. Every portion of the body in which someone could hide something is closely inspected. 
Without being graphic, we watch the de—humanizing procedure. He opens his mouth as wide as possible. Pulls his earlobes foreword to reveal behind them. Then bends over, hands on the floor in front of him. 
He is scanned with a metal detector. So is his clothing, which is then returned to him. 
GUARD #1 Welcome home, cop. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE PRISON CAFETERIA 
Parker eats at a table with a dozen other inmates. The food is unrecognizable. The air thick with humidity and cigarette smoke. Nobody is talking. Just staring. At Parker. 
Parker forces down the remainder of his meal, then returns his utensils to a bin. And heads to the bathroom. All eyes following Parker's every move. 
The other inmates then turn their attentions to a man of incredible size following Parker. 6' 6", 255 lbs. His face covered with red scar tissue from burns suffered long ago. This is BIG RED. He follows Parker into the bathroom. 
INSIDE THE BATHROOM 
Graffiti covers the walls. Red uses a stained urinal, then turns to the stalls. A pair of prison—issue shoes and socks are visible beneath one of them. 
RED Time to hurt... 
Red kicks in the door to the stall. Revealing a pair of shoes and socks stuffed with a prison shirt. Red hears something behind him. And turns around slowly. 
Parker stands barefooted and shirtless. SCARS are visible around each arm just below the elbow. You will learn what these represent momentarily. 
Parker is six inches shorter and 60 pounds lighter than Red. But the punch Parker delivers to Red's face makes you think it's the other way around. 
You HEAR the sound of metal crushing bone. Red is thrown backwards into the stall. Blood splatters from his mouth, adding another shade of redness to his face. 
Red's teeth stick out of Parker's fist. Parker pulls out the teeth. He does not bleed. Nor seem in pain. Metal is visible beneath the surface of his skin. 
For the first time, you notice SMALL TATTOOS on the outsides of his palms. They read: WENTLOW MODEL 17-L, and 17-R, followed by serial numbers. 
Red charges Parker wildly. Parker dodges him like a matador does a bull. Then brings his fists down savagely on the back of Red's head. His skull CRACKS. Red drops to the floor. 
Parker jumps on top of him, arms around his neck. Choking him. Red staggers to his feet. His eyes wide. His face now even redder. 
Parker maintains his mechanical grip. Red finally succumbs to the lack of oxygen. He drops to his knees. Parker does not relent until he feels the barrel of a gun at the back of his head. 
GUARD Fun's over. 
Parker lets go, dropping Red to the wet, filthy floor. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE PRISON HOSPITAL 
The room isn't clean. The technology is outdated. A large, female NURSE applies epoxy-like sealant to the synthetic skin on Parker's fingers. 
NURSE I still don't know why they wasted this fancy, new technology on you. Every time I fix you up, you only go and mess it up again. 
She sandpapers off the excess sealant. Then places his elbow into an electronic sensitivity adjuster. 
NURSE Tell me how this feels... 
She pricks Parker's finger with a pin. 
PARKER OW! 
NURSE (smiling) I'll dial it down a little. 
The other two walls in the cell, however, look very different. They are completely covered with primitive paintings —— darkly colored, surreal images. Imagine the Lascaux cave paintings as works—in—progress. Painted by Dali. Except these images were created by Parker Barnes. 
He kneels in a corner, working intensely on another image. Completely lost in concentration. His hands, his clothing, covered in paint. He almost appears to be part of the art work. 
The work is intricate. It clearly takes Parker a very long time. Which gives him something to do during the nights he is unable to sleep. Which is most of them. 
He is so absorbed in his task that he seems oblivious to the constant taunts ECHOING throughout the cell block. Threats of the ugliest, most vile kind. The kind Parker has had to live with every night for the last five years. 
Pausing to admire his work, Parker finally hears the taunts. 
His face becoming a mixture of frustration, guilt, and anger. 
Parker immediately resumes painting. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE 
Reilly paces anxiously by the incubator eight hours later. 
Lindenmeyer sits off to the side, looking no less anxious. 
It's close to 4:00 AM. 
THROUGH THE CIRCULAR WINDOW 
There is no liquid left in the incubator -- it's all been absorbed. All that is visible is the silhouette of a human form crouched within steam. The form stands. 
INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE 
The human form inside incubator opens the hatch. Steam pours out from within its confines as it climbs out slowly. 
The figure stands within the mist, admiring itself. Then its surroundings. 
Reilly approaches the figure with the expectancy of a father about to see his newborn child for the first time. Lindenmeyer hangs back. 
REILLY (expecting Sheila 3.2) Baby, what I'm gonna do to you... 
His face drops when Sid 6.7 steps out of the mist. 
Completely naked. Lindenmeyer smiles proudly. Fearfully. Wickedly. 
REILLY (CONT'D) (to Lindenmeyer) Who the hell is this?! 
SID 6.7 My name is Sid. Sid 6.7. 
He extends his hand as if to shake. Then grabs Reilly by the throat and chokes him. Hard. 
LINDENMEYER SID —— NO!!! 
SID 6.7 What do you expect me to do, thank him? 
REILLY (gasping for air) This... isn't.. .possible! 
SID 6.7 Sure it is —- and it's all thanks to the many long hours put in by you and Daryl. 
He watches Reilly's face with curiosity as the life drains from it. A puddle forms beneath him. He drops Reilly's body to the floor. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) (to Lindenmeyer) ) Real instruments are so much more responsive than virtual ones, don't you think? 
Lindenmeyer is nowhere to be seen. The office door is unlocked, and open. Watching Sid 6.7's expression, you realize something isn't quite right. 
His expression is exaggerated. Artificial. Only for a moment, but it's enough to remind you Sid 6.7 is not human. 
The billions of nano—mechanisms which make up his anatomy are still learning to function in a fully-coordinated fashion. Sid 6.7 is, literally, getting used to his new skin. 
In various ways throughout his "life" —— be it a wandering eye, or a momentary limp —- you will be reminded that Sid 6.7 is a synthetic nano—organism unlike anyone has ever seen. 
A surgical knife by the aquarium catches Sid 6.7's attention. Picking up the knife, he runs his finger across the razor— sharp knife blade. Cutting himself slightly. A drop of blood appears. Sid 6.7 tastes his (synthetic) blood. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) Tastes different, somehow. 
He then watches with interest as his wound regenerates, healing itself. The scar tissue is slightly off color. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) I think I'm going to like it here. 
Glancing at Reilly's prone body, he then SLAMS the office door in our face. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE A PRISON INTERROGATION ROOM 
6:00 AM. Parker, clearly just awakened, is led into the room by a guard, who then exits. Waiting for Parker are Chief of Police Cox and Elizabeth Deane. 
PARKER Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual reality? 
MADISON Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory. (re: Sid 6.7 CD-ROM) We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile. 
PARKER What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the son—of-a-bitch before he kills anybody else. 
MADISON In order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick... 
CUT TO: 
THE SID 6.7 CD-ROM 
being inserted into a disc drive inside the Cal Tech Computer Lab. Very high-tech. Sitting at the computer is ALEXIEV BORGEN, 60s, the "grand old wizard" of the facility. Parker and Madison sit next to him. Around them, young Lindenmeyers are everywhere. 
ALEXIEV (remembering fondly) ) Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies... 
PARKER Can you tell us what's on the disc? 
ALEXIEV (working the computer) ) There is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of programming. It is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering Lindenmeyer created it. 
MADISON Think you can get into the program? 
ALEXIEV (with appreciation) ) Hard to say —— Lindenmeyer's protection mechanisms were always diabolically clever. 
PARKER You should see what he's been up to recently. 
CUT TO: 
A YOUNG COUPLE 
kissing passionately inside a car parked along a deserted street in Hollywood. Music blares from inside the vehicle. Steam on the windows partially obscures your view. As well as Sid 6.7's. 
He stares menacingly through the side window. Enjoying the show. His eye momentarily wanders. 
The young lovers are completely oblivious. Sid 6.7 caresses the gun taken from the cops in Toluca Lake as if it stimulated him. 
SID 6.7 (to himself) The Dahmer part of me wants to boil you for dinner. The Manson part wants to recruit you to become part of my family. (a beat) You know what the Berkowitz part of me wants to do? 
He raises the gun, placing it against the steamed window. But does NOT pull the trigger. His face going through a rapid change of expression —— as if a battle for control of his emotions were going on. 
Regaining control, Sid 6.7 lowers the gun. He stands back. Reflecting. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) Craft can only become art when the creator sets his sights on something never yet achieved... (a beat) Like an apprentice about to become a master, the imitator is about to become an originator. 
He pockets his weapon and walks 
INSIDE AN UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB 
The bartender is a low-tech ROBO-TENDER. PATRONS sit quietly, drinking themselves into oblivion. Sid 6.7 takes a seat next to an BUSINESSMAN slumped at the bar. 
SID 6.7 (thoughtfully) Ever have one of those days where you decide something important about yourself? You know, where you say, "I'm not just what I've been programmed to be. I can do what I want, when I want, how I want, because I'm my own person?" 
BUSINESSMAN (slurring) You one of them New Age assholes? 
SID 6.7 Just a soul on a personal journey. What I've realized is that I'm capable of anything. I have to start expanding my horizons... 
The Robo-Tender rolls over to Sid 6.7. 
ROBO-TENDER (digital, scratchy) Want...a...drink? 
SID 6.7 To think you constitute one of my ancestors—— 
He shoots the Robo—Tender between his mechanical eyes. The businessman smiles, like he's thought about doing exactly the same thing. 
BUSINESSMAN Listen, buddy...thinking big is fine.. .but you shouldn't forget where you come from, either. 
Sid 6.7 thinks about it. Long and hard. 
SID 6.7 You know, you're absolutely right. (pointing) Would you mind sitting over there? 
He points to a table with several other BUSINESSMEN. 
BUSINESSMAN What for? 
SID 6.7 Every orchestra is divided into sections. Like instruments sit with like instruments. Now be a good instrument and sit with your kind... 
He lifts the businessman off his bar stool and carries him to the table. 
CUT TO: 
AN ELECTRONIC MAP OF LOS ANGELES 
on which a RED DOT moves west along a street in Los Feliz. The map occupies a wall inside Chief Cox's Office in the L.A.P. D. Downtown Headquarters. Cox, Wallace and Deane look on. 
PARKER Told you I wasn't going to go anywhere. 
MADISON How did you get your hand out? 
As she unlocks the handcuffs from the steering wheel, Parker wiggles his mechanical hand in front of her face. 
PARKER Sometimes, I like being part machine. 
Annoyed, Madison tosses him the car keys. He starts the engine and drives. 
PARKER (CONT'D) Why didn't you tell me you had a daughter? 
MADISON I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life. 
PARKER (a beat) She's beautiful, you know? 
MADISON Thank-you. (a beat) Her name is Karin. 
She turns on the police radio. 
PARKER Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house? 
MADISON I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes. 
PARKER You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it. (a beat) Where to? 
MADISON (a beat) Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming. 
PARKER What does that mean? 
MADISON Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to evolve. 
PARKER Sounds to me like a well—educated way of saying you have no idea what to do next. 
MADISON What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before. 
PARKER Then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. He's got to make a move sometime, and we've got to be ready when he does. (a beat) Welcome to police work. You better like coffee. 
He turns up the police radio. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB 
Sid 6.7 has separated the patrons into four separate groups: older men and woman, and younger men and woman. All are frozen in their seats with fear. 
Sid 6.7 points his gun at one group, then another, waving his arm as if he were a conductor, and as if his gun were a baton. Sid 6.7 clearly enjoys this game of terror. He delights in the patrons' fear, and revels in his power over them. 
SID 6.7 Good... Very good... Nice... (pointing at a woman) You -- in the middle -- don't hold back. Give it to me! 
He fires his gun just above her head. She SCREAMS in terror. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) That's better... 
He continues aiming his gun from face to face, seeking ever increasing emotional responses from his "instruments." A guy entering the bar does a quick about face. Gone by the time Sid 6.7 glances at the door. 
SID 6.7 God, I hate interruptions. (to the patrons) 
Once again, from the top—— BOOM! He shoots again, just missing a man's foot. 
CUT TO: 
MADISON 
buying two coffees from a downtown street vendor. She returns to the squad car, which is barely moving. Traffic is at a near standstill because of an accident. 
INSIDE THE SQUAD CAR 
Parker drinks his coffee black. Madison adds two creams, two sugars. The cackling from the police radio continues unabated. 
PARKER I forgot what real coffee tastes like... 
MADISON You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're re—adapting quite well. (a beat) Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant... 
PARKER Don't worry about it, all right? 
MADISON Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I... 
PARKER Relax. I know what you meant. 
MADISON I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living them. 
PARKER Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a while? 
MADISON (with concern) What did you do to those people? 
PARKER Nothing. 
ON THE STREET 
Parker's vehicle speeds through city streets. Gaining ground on Sid 6.7. 
Parker stops for nothing. Not for red lights. Not for gridlock. When the street becomes impassable, he veers onto the sidewalk. 
INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE 
Parker's eyes are locked to the road with fierce determination. Madison's eyes are a mixture of fear and excitement. She holds onto the door handle for dear life. 
PARKER Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it? 
MADISON (gritting her teeth) Enjoying yourself? 
PARKER You know I am. 
MADISON This isn't a game, Parker! 
PARKER (re: Sid 6.7) Tell him. 
SID 6.7 (V. 0.) (over police radio) ) Glad to see you're on the case, Officer Barnes. Or should I say, inmate 673429... 
MADISON (in disbelief) That who I think it is? 
Parker turns to her, then picks up the radio. 
PARKER (into radio) Call me whatever you want, asshole. 
Parker accelerates even faster. Closing the gap between them and Sid 6.7. 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INSIDE SID 6.7'S VEHICLE 
Sid 6.7 drives dangerously fast, causing an accident, around which Parker must circumnavigate. Tires SCREECH. Glass SHATTERS. Sid 6.7 hangs his head out the window. 
SID 6.7 (into radio) The symphony of collision... 
PARKER The only thing I want to hear is your silence. 
SID 6.7 I must make them very nervous if they let you out of prison. (a beat) You know, we have so much in common —— we have such history together ——I've been thinking we should become friends. 
Madison's anxiety tanks are hitting capacity. 
PARKER (into radio) You and me have nothing in common. 
SID 6.7 Who else do you know who touches the world with synthetic hands? 
Parker glances at his mechanical hands gripping the wheel. Madison can't believe he is able to carry on a conversation while driving like this. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) Who else do you know who's been locked out of the real world for years, and is now just learning to be free? (a beat) Who else do you know is a multiple murderer just like you? Who else... 
Madison clicks off the radio. 
MADISON You have nothing in common. 
She puts her hand to her wrist -- checking her pulse. 
PARKER (shaking his head) Enough with your pulse already. (a beat) Still got your gun? 
Madison takes out her weapon. Her hands are shaking. 
PARKER (CONT'D) Show me you can use it. 
ON THE STREET 
Sid 6.7's vehicle reaches absolute gridlock. Nobody's going anywhere for a while. 
Sid 6.7 SLAMS on the brakes and abandons the car, leaving it right in the middle of the street. A TRAFFIC COP with his weapon trained on Sid 6.7 from a distance. 
TRAFFIC COP You better be a cop, pal! 
SID 6.7 (raising his arms) My badge is in my jacket. Left pocket. 
TRAFFIC COP Show me... 
Sid 6.7 slowly reaches inside his jacket and fires his weapon through it. He only gets a hole in his jacket. The Traffic Cop gets a hole through his chest. 
SID 6.7 God, some people are stupid. 
talking on a phone inside the Cal Tech Computer Lab. 
ALEXIEV I'm afraid I don't have very good news. 
INTERCUT WITH: 
PARKER AND MADISON 
on the speakerphone inside Cox's Office. 
MADISON Were you able to get into the program? 
ALEXIEV Yes. But then I tripped over an erasure mine. 
PARKER In English, please. 
ALEXIEV I accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire program. 
Parker and Madison turn to each other -— shit. 
ALEXIEV (CONT'D) It was very well—hidden. There was no way to see it until it was too late. 
PARKER (a beat) It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying. 
ALEXIEV Look, I feel bad about this, so I'm going to try to look into the programming of his Maestro teaching tool for you. (holding up keyboard) ) I've had one sitting around for years. Maybe I can learn something that you'll find useful. 
MADISON Let us know. 
CUT TO: 
SID 6.7 
walking along a sidewalk. Noon. Something in a store front catches his attention. Namely, his own image being captured by a video camera pointed at the sidewalk. He is standing outside a large electronics store. 
Sid 6.7 walks closer to the window, moving into a CLOSE—UP. 
He is captivated by his image. Fascinated. And intrigued. 
This is the first time he has ever seen himself on screen. 
INSIDE THE ELECTRONICS STORE 
Dozens of TVs on display. There is a different channel on each. The audio/visual bombardment is overwhelming. Sid 6.7 enters, making his way to a big screen TV with the local news in progress. 
REPORTER (from the TV) ... commuters travelling anywhere near the Biltmore Hotel downtown tomorrow evening should allow themselves at least 30 extra minutes to get home. Security for the Mayor Bennett's Re—Election Rally is going to be so tight that all bus and subway routes passing through the area are being re—routed... 
Sid 6.7 changes the channel to a different news broadcast. Parker's Folsom County Prison I. D. photograph is shown alongside a photograph of Madison from one of her book covers. 
SID 6.7 (to the TV) Don't you two make a pretty couple. 
The news broadcast zooms in on Parker's picture. Sid 6.7 wiggles his synthetic fingers in front of his face. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) We really do have so much in common. But I refuse to be upstaged... 
He changes the channel back to the first news broadcast. A reporter stands amid the chaos outside the bar where Sid 6.7 had terrified the patrons. 
Sid 6.7 turns to the other CUSTOMERS in the store. Most of them are watching other channels. He goes over to a control pad on a counter and presses several buttons. 
Now EVERY TV in the store has the news with the reporter outside the bar on. A SKINHEAD, sporting numerous Nazi swastika tattoos, manually changes the channel on one of the TVs to a Dodger baseball game. 
Sid 6.7 walks over to the Skinhead and changes the channel back to the news. 
SKINHEAD You don't wanna fuck with me, man. 
He moves to the next TV over and changes the channel to the baseball game. Sid 6.7 moves over with him, standing directly behind the Skinhead as if also interested in the Dodgers. 
SID 6.7 (singing softly) Take me out to the ball game... Take me out for the fun... 
He places his hands on the Skinhead's head and efficiently snaps his head around, breaking his neck. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) Buy me some peanuts and Cracker Jack... I don't care if I ever come back... 
He drops the Skinhead to the floor, never once taking his eyes off the TV. 
ON THE TV 
A Dodger game is in progress. A pop fly is caught by the center fielder. The runner at third tags and heads for home. The play at the plate is close. The umpire calls the runner out. 
The camera pans to the MASSIVE SCREEN over left field to show the instant replay. Reactions of fans around the stadium are shown in CLOSE—UP. The fans also respond to seeing themselves on the massive screen. 
INSIDE THE ELECTRONICS STORE 
Sid 6.7 watches the TV intently, completely ignoring the horrified customers circling around him because of the dead Skinhead at his feet. A SALESMAN, who'd been demonstrating a videocamera, tapes Sid 6.7 from behind a customer. 
BOYFRIEND You make a better door than a window, buddy. Keep it moving. 
Sid 6.7 picks him up out of his seat and throws him three rows ahead. Sid 6.7 then puts hands around the Woman's throat. 
ON THE MASSIVE SCREEN 
over left field, the Woman attempts to scream as Sid 6.7 chokes her. No sound comes out. 
FANS 
react with horror. But nobody turns away. 
ANNOUNCER (V. 0.) Jesus Christ! Somebody stop him! 
SECURITY PERSONNEL 
rush from all parts of the stadium toward J Section. 
SID 6.7 
enjoys the reactions of the terrified fans around him as he chokes the life out of the Woman. 
SID 6.7 (to the camera) Hey, Parker, this one's for you... 
His words ECHO around the stadium as he SNAPS the Woman's neck. He then hurls her limp body toward several men as they charge him. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) That's all, folks. 
He leaps over a railing, rushing into a tunnel which leads out of the seating area. 
A SECURITY GUARD 
climbs up the stairs to the mouth of the tunnel. Weapon in hand. He draws a bead on Sid 6.7's back. BOOM! 
HIS POV 
A bullet rips through Sid 6.7's side. Blood begins to seep from the wound. But then immediately begins to retract. Once his blood has returned, his skin heals over the wound. Leaving a scar. Which also then disappears. 
Other than the hole in his shirt, Sid 6.7 is as good as new. He never even misses a step as he disappears around the corner. 
THE SECURITY GUARD 
stares in disbelief as he is joined by several comrades. 
GUARD I nailed the son—of-a—bitch. I put a hole right through him... 
PANIC-STRICKEN FANS 
in J Section start moving away from the area as fast as they can. Parents clutching their children. Climbing over seats. Shoving anyone in their way. 
ANNOUNCER (V. 0.) Ladies and gentlemen, please try to stay calm. Everyone just keep your seats... 
Fans all over the stadium start charging toward the exits. 
OUTSIDE DODGER STADIUM 
People bolt through the turnstiles, running away from the stadium as L. A. P. D. squad cars approach in the distance. The car in the lead is Parker's. 
INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE 
Parker speeds dangerously fast toward the fans streaming onto the street. Madison braces herself. 
MADISON SLOW DOWN! 
Parker JAMS on the brakes with both feet. SCREEEEEEECH! 
OUTSIDE DODGER STADIUM 
Parker comes within inches of mowing down several people, who keep right on running. Parker jumps out of the vehicle, scanning faces. In predator mode. Madison gets out, clearly shaken. Parker locks his gaze on somebody in the distance. 
HIS POV 
A guy in Dodger baseball cap and jacket. Walking calmly away from the stadium. He descends down an escalator into a recently-built subway station. It is Sid 6.7. 
PARKER 
charges after him. A heat—seeking missile locked on target. 
MADISON Parker.. .Parker! 
She does the best she can to follow after him. People knock into Parker as hard as he does them. A human version of bumper cars. 
Reaching the entrance to the subway, Parker leaps down the escalator three steps at a time. Madison remains in his wake. 
The student drops to the escalator, screaming in pain. Sid 6.7 crouches beside him. 
SID 6.7 (yelling) What's wrong, convict, your arms need adjusting? Or maybe it's your head. Maybe you aren't ready to be back out in the real world, yet... 
PARKER'S POV 
The top of Sid 6.7's head is exposed an inch, maybe two. 
PARKER 
fires again. Repeatedly. Moving closer and closer to the edge of the platform, trying to get a better angle while he still has a shot. 
Parker moves to the very edge of the platform. His arm extended out over it. Completely oblivious to 
THE SUBWAY TRAIN 
rocketing into the station toward the south-bound platform. 
MADISON 
leaps off the descending escalator on the south—bound side and rushes to Parker. 
She pulls Parker back just before the train reaches him. Had his arm still been raised, Parker would have lost his arm a second time. 
They tumble to the floor. A PASSENGER rushes to Madison. 
PASSENGER #1 (pointing to Parker) Lady, you gotta stop him! He's gone crazy! 
PASSENGER #2 He just shot an innocent bystander! 
MADISON (forcefully to Parker) What were you shooting at? 
Parker gets to his feet. Madison doesn't take her eyes off him. 
PASSENGER #1 He did —— I saw it! 
PASSENGER #2 DO SOMETHING! 
PARKER (to Madison) Sid's getting away. 
He heads toward the up escalator. His back now to Madison. She aims her gun at him. 
MADISON Parker -— stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you—— 
PARKER (not looking back) If you're gonna do it, better do it now. 
He keeps right on going up the escalator. 
MADISON 
lines up her shot. Hands shaking. With both fear and determination. Her finger presses down on the trigger...but she can't do it. 
MADISON Dammit! 
She chases after him. 
INSIDE THE NORTH/SOUTH TUNNEL 
Madison looks in both directions as she gets off the escalator. Parker is nowhere to be seen. 
Moving toward her slowly is the wounded college student, who clutches his bleeding shoulder. He is shivering. Going into shock. Madison goes to him, taking off his headphones. 
MADISON Let me help you... 
He collapses in her arms. 
COLLEGE STUDENT (delirious) What did I do?...I didn't do anything... 
Clearly versed in emergency medical treatment, Madison attends to his wound. Parker returns. 
PARKER (breathlessly) I lost him... 
COLLEGE STUDENT GET HIM AWAY FROM ME! GET HIM AWAY! 
MADISON (furiously) Call 9-1-1. Wait for me above ground. 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE OF THE SUBWAY STATION 
30 minutes later. The chaos outside Dodger Stadium has subsided. Madison and two PARAMEDICS lead the bandaged College Student to an ambulance. 
Madison goes to Parker, who sits quietly by himself. Elbows on his knees. Head between his hands. Staring at the cement between his feet. 
Two bullet holes are visible in the windshield. The two Prison Guards lie dead in their seats. Sid 6.7's eyes appear, looking directly at you. He's smiling. 
SID 6.7 (neighborly) Hey, old buddy, old pal, good to see you again. 
INSIDE THE PRISON TRANSPORT 
Parker goes absolutely berserk. Viciously punching the steel mesh which separates them until the synthetic skin on his knuckles is shredded. 
PARKER You...mother...fucker! I'M GOING TO KILL YOU!!! 
SID 6.7 Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends. 
PARKER GRIMES, YOU'RE DEAD! 
He savagely hurls himself against his confines. Bone vs. metal. Don't try this at home. 
SID 6.7 I'm sorry, the party you're trying to reach is not answering. Is there anyone else you would like to talk to? 
PARKER DEAD! YOU HEAR ME? 
SID 6.7 (a beat) You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me. 
Parker is completely spent. Mentally and physically. He slumps in a corner. Out of breath. Bleeding. Sore. All he can do is stare out through the portal's mesh at Sid 6.7. 
SID 6.7 (CONT'D) You could say thank—you, you know? I'm giving you your freedom, short— lived though it may be. (a beat) A little known fact about the locater implants prison inmates now receive upon release is that they contain a pinhead capsule of neural toxin. The satellite they use to track you can also trigger release of the toxin with microwaves. After transmission, the implant's host dies within 30 seconds. (a beat) It won't take long for them to get your termination authorized once they learn of your escape. Now who would you rather go after, killer, them or me? 
He releases the rear door lock. 
ON THE STREET 
Parker bursts out of the back of the Prison Transport, charging after Sid 6.7. Who is nowhere to be seen. Parker runs in one direction. Then the other. And changes his mind again. He literally does not know which way to turn. 
PARKER Shit! 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE A CONFERENCE ROOM IN L. A. P. D. HEADQUARTERS 
An AIDE rushes through the door to Cox, who's briefing Deane and Wallace on what he has learned. 
AIDE Parker Barnes just escaped from the prison transport. Both of the guards are dead. 
The Aide exits. 
COX (to Deane) Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent guards. 
DEANE He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards? 
COX Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his daughter? (with conviction) I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards. 
DEANE You already have staked your reputation. (a beat) Mayor Bennett and I have been friends a long time. Since Grimes tried to kill him, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to come to the conclusion that Sid 6.7 might go after him, too. (a beat) Bennett's Re-Election Rally is tomorrow night and we already have enough trouble on our hands with one psychotic on the loose. (to Wallace) The fail-safe on—line, yet? 
WALLACE On—line and at your disposal. 
COX (to Deane) What fail—safe? 
DEANE (approaching Wallace) This had better work, Mr. Wallace. 
Wallace exits the room. Cox has no idea what is going on. And Deane is not about to tell him. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE MADISON'S BEDROOM 
Madison enters wearily, late afternoon. Exhausted from the events of the last two days, she starts to undress. Her clothing is filthy. So is her skin. She could use a good shower, and a better massage. 
Madison examines the various cuts and bruises she's received along the way. Not exactly war wounds, but to somebody used to sitting behind a desk, they are. 
She absentmindedly turns on the television, then goes into her bathroom. Madison looks at her face in the mirror. She's looked better. After splashing cold water on her face, she comes to the same conclusion. 
Madison takes two aspirin. And then two more. Wishing they would take effect immediately. Finally hearing the news on the TV, her entire demeanor changes instantly. 
Madison rushes in front of the television to see a report of Parker's escape from the prison transport. 
MADISON Oh, shit! 
Grabbing a handful of clothes, she bolts urgently out the door. 
CUT TO: 
MADISON 
speeding recklessly through city streets in her car. She doesn't stop for red lights. Not for grid-lock. Not for nothing. 
MADISON He didn't know about the neural toxin. (a beat) I did. 
PARKER (matter-of-factly) You knew the entire time? Can you give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now? 
COX She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did. 
PARKER (turning to Madison) Then I guess we're even. 
MADISON (a beat) How did you find out about the toxin? 
PARKER Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him. 
MADISON You're not capable of it. 
PARKER I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember? 
MADISON I was wrong. (a beat) And I was wrong not to tell you Grimes was part of Sid. I should have told you. I won't make the same mistake again. 
She means it. Parker turns away, looking at his wife's headstone. 
COX The son—of—a-bitch is still out there, Parker. 
Parker turns toward him slowly. Emotion beginning to return to his face. 
PARKER (a beat) When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head? 
COX On my life, I promise you I will. 
PARKER If you're lying, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself. 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE A CONSTRUCTION SIGHT 
6 PM. The human FOREMAN presses a remote control detonator. 
BOOM! An explosion occurs inside a building's foundation 
(STOCK FOOTAGE). The building is levelled instantly. 
Sid 6.7, who's been watching the explosion, approaches the Foreman. 
SID 6.7 (applauding) Bravo. 
FOREMAN Who the hell are you? 
SID 6.7 Someone who appreciates the artistic value of high—explosives. 
He shoots the Foreman in the chest. Sid 6.7 relieves him of his keys and heads to an explosives storage shed. 
CUT TO: 
SID 6.7 
carrying a crate of C-4 high-explosives out of the shed in the construction sight minutes later. He adds it to the dozen crates already loaded in a truck. And takes off. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE A LARGE SEWER PIPE 
Sid 6.7 secures several crates of C—4 to an automated sewer cleaning vehicle. He schedules its start time —— 24 hours from now. It is now 7:45 PM. The bomb's TIMER is set to detonate 15 minutes into the vehicle's journey -- at 8:00 PM tomorrow night. 
SID 6.7 (admiring his work) You think you know me, but you don't have any idea who I really am... 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL 
sight of Mayor Bennett's upcoming Re-Election Rally, Cox supervises an army of L. A. P. D. officers who are securing the area. Bomb—sniffing dogs. Rooftop snipers. Helicopter surveillance. Nothing is being left to chance. 
Anyone doing anything within 100 yards of the building is searched, including the REPORTERS and their CAMERA CREWS covering the convention's security. 
PARKER AND MADISON 
survey the scene with binoculars from amid a crowd of pedestrians two blocks away. Both are disguised in hats and different clothing. You don't immediately recognize them. 
MADISON The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think? 
PARKER I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious. 
MADISON Sid 6.7 isn't Grimes. 
PARKER Part of him is. 
PARKER (CONT'D) (compassionately) Don't worry, I know. I know. 
Cox's eyes roll back in his head. Parker then closes them and gently lays his head on the sidewalk. 
Parker turns his head toward Sid 6.7, who's released Madison and is jumping over a railing to the street 20 feet below. Parker rushes to the railing. 
HIS POV Sid 6.7 lands on top of a garbage truck passing beneath the bridge. The garbage truck disappears beneath the bridge. 
ON THE BRIDGE 
A dozen cops advance toward Parker. Weapons drawn. 
COP #4 Freeze! 
Parker ignores them. He bolts across the street, moving in the same direction as the bus below. Through speeding traffic. 
Bullets fly. Parker keeps charging. Right in front of a moving van barreling across the bridge. The cops lose sight of Parker. 
COP #5 Think he made it? 
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE 
Parker dives onto the sidewalk, avoiding the speeding van by inches. Getting to his feet, he launches himself up and over the railing... 
ON THE STREET 
The garbage truck passes beneath Parker as he leaps from the bridge. 
ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK 
Parker lands on the back of the truck. Right next the opening and-closing steel jaws of the truck's massive trash compactor. His gun tumbles from his hand, falling to the street. 
Sid 6.7 dives on top of Parker, putting him flat on his stomach. And his face against the steel teeth. Sid 6.7 chokes Parker. Hard. 
SID 6.7 I have to tell you, I do enjoy you, Parker. I really don't want to have to kill you... 
The sanitation worker at the wheel of the truck has no idea whatsoever what is happening on top of his truck. 
CUT TO: 
THE DOZEN OF COPS 
who had been on the bridge, charging down the steps after the garbage truck, which can no longer be seen. 
Madison walks calmly behind them. Scanning the crowd. Looking for Lindenmeyer. Her every instinct telling her he's here. He must be. 
She spots him. Veering from the direction the cops headed in, Madison casually wades into the crowd. She takes out her 
weapon and stops behind Lindenmeyer. Even in disguise, he looks familiar. Madison puts her gun against his back. 
MADISON (whispering into his ear) I figured you'd show up sooner or later... 
CUT TO: 
ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK 
Parker and Sid 6.7 continue battling next to the compactor's lethal jaws. The machine makes an awful, grinding sound. Not unlike the sounds Parker and Sid 6.7 are making. The fight is primal. Savage. And moving at 30 miles-per-hour. 
PARKER What C-4...was Cox talking about? 
SID 6.7 Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here...or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night. 
PARKER Where did you plant the C-4?! 
He should concentrate more on fighting, and less on asking questions, because he's losing. Parker takes a wicked shot to the face, and then the groin. Sid 6.7 holds Parker's head between the compactor's jaws. Which are closing. 
With every last ounce of effort he has, Parker hurls his legs up into Sid 6.7. Which throws Sid 6.7 into the compactor. 
The steel jaws immediately close in on Sid 6.7, who frantically tries to climb out. He gets his hands out. Then his head. But that's about it. 
Without emphasizing graphic detail, Sid 6.7 is decapitated. His lifeless body drops back into the compactor. 
His head tumbles to the street. The force of the impact causes the Sid 6.7 character module to separate from the neural net. 
The character module scatters into the street. Parker immediately jumps off the truck after it. 
ON THE STREET 
Parker's landing isn't pretty. Finally getting to his feet, he sees the Sid 6.7 character module is about to be run over. 
Parker dives for it, nearly getting run over himself. 
The approaching car SCREECHES to a halt next to him. It's driven by Lindenmeyer. At gunpoint. Madison sits behind him, her gun to his head. 
MADISON (a beat) What's wrong with Parker? 
LINDENMEYER (innocently) How should I know? 
MADISON (getting an idea) Show me his physical sensory level. 
She clicks back the hammer of her gun and presses the barrel against Lindenmeyer's ear. He does as told. On a panel by the console, you read: PARTICIPANT PHYSICAL SENSORY LEVEL: 670%. 
LINDENMEYER I wonder how that... 
MADISON (CONT'D) Turn it down! 
Lindenmeyer adjusts the sensory level back down to 100%. 
ON A MONITOR 
Parker immediately returns back to normal. His pace picks up. He starts closing the gap between him and Sid 6.7 as he races into a shopping mall. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE SHOPPING MALL 
The place is a seven—story mecca of shopping. An atrium allows you to look from the ground floor up to the seventh. Sid 6.7 rushes up the escalators. Going up to the second floor. Then the third. 
Parker follows suit climbing escalator after escalator. 
Throwing people out of his way. 
ON THE SEVENTH FLOOR 
which is also the highest, Sid 6.7 veers out of view. Parker races up the final steps to the seventh floor. Sid 6.7 is nowhere to be seen. 
Parker searches methodically. Efficiently. He finally spots Sid 6.7. Who has Parker's head lined-up perfectly in his gun sight. Parker is a sitting duck. BOOM! 
Parker dives behind AFFLUENT SHOPPER 2.1, who takes a bullet in his ascot. Parker quickly grabs him, and uses his body as a shield against Sid 6.7's constant gunfire until Parker arrives behind a marble column. 
SID 6.7 (surprised at Parker's ruthlessness) We really aren't that different, are we? 
What he cannot see is that behind the column, Affluent Shopper 2.1 is Auto Resetting. Parker puts his gun to the shopper's head. 
PARKER (whispering) Don't move, and don't make a sound. Got it? 
Affluent Shopper 2.1 nods his head repeatedly. Parker collects himself behind the column, then pivots out from behind it. Firing in Sid 6.7's direction. Each bullet finds its mark. 
Absorbing the blows, Sid 6.7 backs up against the atrium railing. Taking one final shot, he falls backward. Over the railing. 
PARKER'S POV 
Sid 6.7 tumbles through the atrium. Out of control. 
Speeding toward the ground seven floors below. 
SID 6.7'S POV 
The sense of momentum is exhilarating. And terrifying. If you get dizzy easily, close your eyes. 
FROM THE FIRST FLOOR 
Sid 6.7 falls through the atrium like a rock directly at you. A 200 pound rock. WHAM!!! 
He lands face down in the marble floor. The impact is bone— crushing. Sid 6.7 does not move. 
Until he begins to regenerate. His fluids begin returning to his body. His bones regaining proper form. Within seconds, his body appears as good as new. 
(Technically, because this is VR1 the proper term would be Auto. Reset. But since Sid 6.7 thinks he's in the real world, regenerating is what he thinks he's doing.) 
Sid 6.7 stands, dusting himself off. 
SID 6.7 Man, what a rush. (yelling up to Parker) Adios, amigo! 
Grabbing his gun, he takes off out of the lobby. 
ON THE SEVENTH FLOOR 
Parker retrieves his gun, then bolts down the escalators. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE LETAC 
Madison and Lindenmeyer watch Parker on screen. Madison still has her gun trained on Lindenmeyer, who notices a WARNING LIGHT start to flash. He turns to Parker's unconscious body lying on the bed. Lindenmeyer looks concerned. 
MADISON What's wrong? 
SID 6.7 (as if to God) Thank-you, Daryl. (turning to Parker) You had me going for quite a while there, sport. 
PARKER What are you talking about? 
SID 6.7 I really did think I was still in reality. At least, until now. (looking upward) Beam me up, Scotty! 
His body DISINTEGRATES before your eyes. It's electronic particles form into an amorphous cloud. Which disappears from view. 
PARKER (yelling) Madison, get me out of here! MADISON! 
Lindenmeyer watches Parker scream on the monitor. Madison remains unconscious on the floor behind him. 
LINDENMEYER (to the monitor) She's taking a nap at the moment. 
He types a set of instructions into the console and hits ENTER. 
LINDENMEYER (CONT' D) But don't worry. You won't be alone for very long. Fairly soon, you'll be dead. 
He removes the Sid 6.7 character module from its slot and exits the station. 
ON THE ROOF OF THE HOLLYWOOD TOWER 
One side of Parker's chair gradually starts to rise. Parker looks down to see the roof surrealistically swelling beneath his chair. This could only happen in virtual reality. 
In a matter of minutes, he is going to be thrown over the roof's edge. The next stop is 693 feet down. 
INSIDE LETAC 
Parker's screams for help ECHO throughout the facility. But there is no one there to hear him. 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE LETAC 
The garbage truck is parked in a loading dock. Lindenmeyer climbs awkwardly onto the truck, then into the compactor. 
INSIDE THE GARBAGE TRUCK COMPACTOR 
Lindenmeyer wades through trash until he comes upon Sid 6.7's headless body. The polymer neural net visible within its neck. Lindenmeyer inserts Sid 6.7's character module into its gelatinous base. But nothing happens. 
LINDENMEYER Come on, live. Live! 
The synthetic nervous system begins to crackle with life. Growing around the module. Forming the beginnings of a new head. Literally. 
CUT TO: 
PARKER 
sitting precariously on the increasingly-uneven roof of the Hollywood Tower in virtual reality. Unable to break free of his binds, he rocks the chair onto its side. 
He and the chair fall to the roof, which will keep him from falling to his death for another minute, if he's lucky. 
PARKER MADISON!!! 
INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION 
Madison, still unconscious on the floor, finally stirs. Maybe Parker's screaming is finally reaching her. Or at least, starting to. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE GARBAGE TRUCK COMPACTOR 
Lindenmeyer looks on with awe as Sid 6.7 grows a new head right before your eyes. You've never seen anything like it. 
Sid 6.7's resulting head is slightly off center. His skin tone isn't perfect, nor is his color, but at least its functional. Sid 6.7 admires himself in a broken mirror. 
SID 6.7 I am beautiful, aren't I? 
LINDENMEYER Of course you are. 
Sid 6.7 wades through the trash toward Lindenmeyer. 
SID 6.7 How can I ever thank—you for bringing me back to life a second time, Daryl? 
LINDENMEYER Help me get out of here. 
SID 6.7 Glad to... 
He reaches out to give Lindenmeyer a hand, then grabs him by the throat. Choking him. Lindenmeyer can't believe what is happening. 
LINDENMEYER (gagging) What...are you doing?! 
Sid 6.7 takes Lindenmeyer's face gently in his hands. 
PARKER Lindenmeyer? 
MADISON My guess is dead. 
PARKER Sid? 
MADISON I don't know. 
Several engineers peek in curiously at them. 
MADISON (CONT'D) Let's get out of here. 
She helps Parker to his feet. 
CUT TO: 
PARKER AND MADISON 
at a payphone outside a mini—mall. Could be any one of the 10,000 in Los Angeles. It's late morning. 
PARKER (on the phone) Elizabeth Deane, please. Tell her it's Parker Barnes... 
INTERCUT WITH: 
INSIDE COX'S OFFICE 
Elizabeth Deane picks up the phone. 
DEANE Barnes, where the hell have you been?! 
PARKER Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been? 
DEANE What did you find out? 
PARKER Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport guards. 
DEANE It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the shooter. (a beat) Did you find out where the bomb is? 
PARKER No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target. (a beat) How much C-4 is missing? 
DEANE Enough to level an entire city block. 
PARKER If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel. 
DEANE (with frustration) Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know where... 
PARKER (interrupting) Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. (a beat) Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena. 
DEANE You know how much man power you're talking about? 
PARKER You're the highest law enforcement official in the country. Use the fucking army if you need to. 
He hangs up the phone. 
CUT TO: 
DOZENS OF DEMOLITIONS TEAMS 
checking every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into Dallas Arena. The effort is massive. Intensive. The clock is ticking. 6:00 and counting. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL, MAIN LOBBY 
The area has been converted into a security checkpoint. 
Entrants are carefully scanned one—by—one. WE HEAR the rally OFF SCREEN. 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE BILTMORE HOTEL 
Security is on extreme alert. Tension is very high. It's 7:00. Parker, Madison, and Deane look on, anxiously. They listen to a RADIO SCANNER monitoring the conversations between the demolitions teams. 
DEANE (to Parker) This better not be a wild goose chase. 
PARKER Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today? 
DEANE (sharply) Don't forget, convict, if this psycho isn't stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell. 
MADISON Give him a break, would you? 
MALE VOICE (from scanner) This is demo team 27 leader. I think we just found what we've been looking for... 
The door is opened by the GUEST CONDUCTOR, who is dressed in a tuxedo, as well as large earrings. His hair is long and red. His complexion is pale, nearly white. And his eyes are piercing green. You might describe this look as punk meets classical. 
GUEST CONDUCTOR (annoyed beyond belief) Are you just going to stand there, or do you want something? 
Shaking with concentration, Sid 6.7 turns his hair red. (Nano—organisms can do this, as well as the following.) He then grabs his hair and pulls it out, extending it to the exact length of the guest conductor's. 
Sid 6.7 then changes his complexion to match the conductor's. As well as his eye color, and other facial features. The Guest Conductor can't believe his eyes. 
By the time Sid 6.7 is finished modifying himself, he may not be an exact duplicate of the guest conductor, but even his mother would have to look twice. 
SID 6.7 It's show time. 
He shoves the Guest Conductor back into his Dressing Room. Sid 6.7 follows him in, revealing a suppressed .38. He SLAMS the door behind him. 
CUT TO: 
INSIDE THE SQUAD CAR 
Madison speeds recklessly through traffic toward the Hollywood Bowl. Parker doesn't notice. He's totally focused on screaming into the police radio. 
PARKER Listen to me, a bomb is planted somewhere in the Hollywood Bowl! Evacuate everybody! 
FEMALE VOICE I'm sorry, sir, I don't have the authorization to do that. 
PARKER Then put somebody on who does! 
MALE VOICE What's seems to be the problem? 
PARKER You've got to stop the concert! A bomb is going to go off! 
MALE VOICE I'm sorry, sir, the concert has already started. 
CUT TO: 
THE GUEST CONDUCTOR 
whose back is to the audience, leading the orchestra in a truly magnificent performance of Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony inside the Hollywood Bowl. 
The Guest Conductor waves his baton wildly. Passionately. Brilliantly. Getting the absolute best from the members of the orchestra. 
The musicians exhilarate in the challenge of being pushed to their musical limit. 
As the Guest Conductor turns to the next page of his sheet music on the podium, you notice seven small, HIGH-FREQUENCY SENSORS above an upcoming musical measure. 
The sensors are wired together. When the seven notes are played in sequence, an electrical pulse will be triggered down the wires which run down the side of the podium, beneath the stage. 
BENEATH THE STAGE 
The wires connect to several crates of C—4 positioned beneath the orchestra. These seven notes will be the last notes these musicians ever play. 
CUT TO: 
OUTSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL 
Madison SCREECHES the vehicle to a halt. She comes within inches of mowing down several people. Madison and Parker bolt to the entrance, flashing their badges to the guards. 
INSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL 
The Guest Conductor's movements grow even more intense. More demanding. As he looks to the violin section, we now see the conductor's face. It is Sid 6.7. 
SID 6.7 (silently) Don't hold back...Give it to me. Give it to me! 
The orchestra plays with everything they've got. They hit every note perfectly. Including a high C. 
ON THE CONDUCTOR'S PODIUM 
The first sensor is triggered. Then the second. 
PARKER AND MADISON 
appear at the back of the stage. Guns raised. Distracting the musicians. As Parker and Madison charge through the horn section toward Sid 6.7, the musicians stop playing. 
ON THE CONDUCTOR'S PODIUM 
The fifth sensor is triggered. Then the sixth...But not the seventh. 
SID 6.7 
cannot believe his eyes. Or his ears. The entire orchestra has stopped. 
SID 6.7 Come on, play! PLAY! 
In his rage, his face contorts "past points", which can only be described bizarre, frightening, and not, something you would ever like to see when you look in the mirror. 
