"WALL STREET" 
"WALL STREET" 
ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY BY STANLEY WEISER & OLIVER STONE 
OAXATAL PRODUCTIONS, INC. COPYRIGHT APRIL 1, 1987 THIRD DRAFT Rev. 4/2/87 Rev. 4/15/87 Rev. 4/20/87 Rev. 4/23/87 
EXT. WALL STREET - EARLY MORNING 
FADE IN. THE STREET. The most famous third of a mile in the world. Towering landmark structures nearly blot out the dreary grey flannel sky. The morning rush hour crowds swarm through the dark, narrow streets like mice in a maze, all in pursuit of one thing: MONEY... CREDITS RUN. 
INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - EARLY MORNING 
We hear the ROAR of the trains pulling out of the station. Blurred faces, bodies, suits, hats, attache cases float into view pressed like sardines against the sides of a door which now open, releasing an outward velocity of anger and greed, one of them BUD FOX. 
EXT. SUBWAY EXIT - MORNING 
The bubbling mass charges up the stairs. Steam rises from a grating, shapes merging into the crowd. Past the HOMELESS VETS, the insane BAG LADY with 12 cats and 20 shopping bags huddled in the corner of Trinity Church... 
Bud the Fox straggling behind, in a crumpled raincoat, tie askew, young, very young, his bleary face buried in a Wall Street Journal, folded, 'subway style', as he crosses the street against the light. 
BUD Why Fox? Why didn't you buy... schmuck? 
A car honks, swerving past. 
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 
Cavernous modern lobby. Bodies cramming into elevators. Bud, stuffing the newspaper into his coat, jams in. 
INT. ELEVATOR - MORNING 
Blank faces stare ahead, each lost in private thoughts, Bud again mouthing the thought, "stupid schmuck", his eyes catching a blond executive who quickly flicks her eyes away. Paranoia in the elevator. We quickly cut into private lives. 
WORRIED MAN (V.O.) ... he'll sue me, could be for 5-6 million, and he'll get a million, the house, they'll impound my paychecks...damn, damn, why did I sign that contract? 
BLACK BIKE MESSENGER (V.O.) ... gotta get Lola in the sack man, take her to the Garden for the Terrells, Jimmy give me the tickets for 12 bucks, I pull the midnight shift, I could do 60 bucks... wow, check those legs out... 
His eyes on the same blonde exec who looks away, self- conscious about her legs. The elevator stops at a floor, discards only one person. The doors close a little too slowly. 
BLONDE EXECUTIVE (V.O.) ... jerk... (shifts her thoughts) call Hanratty. The decimal points on the code are uncalibrated. Hoskins. The signatures on the bank draft. Boyle, that bitch...insurance...tax form. Shit, talk to Kahn. (recalling) That's Hanratty, Hoskins, Bank, Boyle and Kahn... H2B2K - shoot, insurance and theatre tix...H2B2K,I,T -- and the cleaners! repeat... 
Catching the eyes of Bud Fox once again wandering to her. Camera moving to Bud who looks away. 
BUD (V.O.) ...sorry, what a fox... funny, the most beautiful girls in the world are always on the street or in elevators, never get to talk to them, shy ... my looks, never had confidence in them ... overcompensating work syndrome... prove your worth with money... 'cept I'm not making any money... (pause, the elevator at another floor, slow) ... wonder what all these people are thinking about. 
Camera moving slowly again over the eyes. The silence of individual tension reigns over all. 
ANGRY MAN (V.O.) ...Screw him! I'll destroy that sonufabitch... he thinks he can break a contract with me he's got something to learn. 
SECRETARY (V.O.) ...9:15!... he'll kill me this time, he will really kill me... oh come on elevator!... why do you stop on every floor... 
As the elevator stops again to disgorge two people. 
BIKE MESSENGER (V.O.) (pissed now at the elevator) ... come on man, time is money man... One floor here I could do eleven blocks... 
BLONDE EXECUTIVE (V.O.) H2B2K,I,T,CL,P,O,T2... (pause, she looks like she forgot something) 
WORRIED MAN (V.O.) ...goddamn elevators!...people, too many goddamn people in this world! 
The elevator finally comes to a slow stop... They wait, plead, beg, screech with the eyes. 
The door at last opens. None of them acknowledging each other, they all stampede out the door with an audible gasp of release, a collective sign akin to making it to a urinal after a punishing wait... 
The elevator tension is over, but the killer grind continues. 
INT. JACKSON, STEINEM INVESTMENT HOUSE - DAY 
Credits continue to run. Bud moves past the functional reception area, past CAROLYN, a cheerful young black girl. 
CAROLYN How you doing Buddy? 
BUD Great Carolyn, doing any better would be a sin... 
He slips off his overcoat, flicks some lint off his Paul Stuart $500 suit, and enters the main trading room. 
MARV Dr. Beltzer has to have his information this minute! It concerns his future! 
Bud waves Marvin away, answers his caller, trying to keep cool, worried how as he sees Lynch, the office manager, coming over. 
BUD Hey Howard, I thought you were a gentleman. Sure it's gone down a little bit, but you got the tip from your printer, I didn't... Yeah you did. That's what you said. (heated) I didn't tell you to buy it, why would I tell you to sell it? (screaming) No, I can't give it back! Give it back to who? You own it! (beat) No, he's out right now. 
As he looks up and winks at Lynch, standing over him. 
BUD (cupping the receiver) ... That's what you told us to say. 
LYNCH Give me that phone. (takes receiver) Yes, sir, this is the manager. What seems to be the problem? 
MARV (into his phone) What?... Well, how was I to know you were in surgery? What am I Marvin the mind reader here? 
Bud whispers, tensely. Lynch listens. 
BUD He's lying. 
LYNCH Okay, sir. I'll discuss this with the broker and I'll get back to you. You're welcome. 
Lynce hangs up and glares at Bud. 
LYNCH If I'm closing out this account. If he doesn't pay for it tomorrow, you pay for it. 
BUD Mr. Lynch, I swear to you, he's lying! 
LYNCH Fox, you're making more problems than you are sales. 
BUD I don't think you're being fair, sir. You assigned me this guy, and you know he's got a history... 
LYNCH Somebody has to pay for that error. And it's not me. 
Lynch walks off. Bud does some quick calculations in his head. 
MARV (reappearing) Buddy, buddy, buddy; little trouble, huh, today. 
BUD (devastated) Howard the Jerk reneged on me. I've got to cover his loss to the tune of about seven grand! I'm tapped out man, American Express got a hit man looking for me. 
MARV Hey, things could be worse. It could've been my money. Let me help you out, rookie. 
He takes out his wallet and loans Bud a hundred bucks. 
BUD Thanks Marv, I'll make it good to you. (fervently) You know what my dream is? One day to be on the other end of that phone... 
MARV Just put me on the institutional side of the room where the real cheesecake is. You forgetting something? 
Marvin points up at the clock. Bud looks up... it's 2:40. Bud quickly composes himself. He picks up the phone, dialing purposefully. 
MARV (CONT'D) Buddy, buddy, when ya gonna realize it's big game hunters that bag the elephants, not retail brokers. I heard this story about Gekko... he was on the phone 30 seconds after the Challenger blew up selling NASA stocks short. 
BUD Hello, Natalie -- guess who? That's right, and you know everyday I say to myself, today could be the day... So what do you say... will you marry me? Then please can you get me through to Mr. Gekko? 
MARV (coaching) It concerns his future! 
BUD Of course he's busy, and so am I. Five minutes. That's all I'm asking. I know that if he could only hear what I have to say... it would change his life. 
INT. GEKKO OFFICE - DAY 
NATALIE, a classy attractive Englishwoman is on the phone with Bud, somewhat amused by his manner. She is the personal secretary to multimillionaire, Wall Street trader and raider, Gordon Gekko. His windows look out on a panoramic view of the city and East River. 
NATALIE Mr. Fox, I've told you before, I'm sure you're a good broker, but our traders talk to the brokers, Mr. Gekko only deals with investment bankers. Yes, I shall give him your message ... 
As they're speaking, another SECRETARY leads two well-heeled JAPANESE BUSINESSMEN past her desk. As she opens the door to the inner office and ushers them inside, we catch a glimpse of a figure, pacing back and forth, talking animatedly on the phone by the huge corner window. HE IS GORDON GEKKO. We hear a deafening ROAR as we: 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. MCGREGOR'S BAR AND GRILL - NEAR LAGUARDIA AIRPORT - TWILIGHT 
In the background, a 747 ascends into the night sky, climbing over the roof tops of weathered brick tract houses. Bud, coat collar pulled up against the wind, crosses the street, entering a neighborhood bar. We see an old maroon Honda behind him. 
INT. MCGREGOR'S - TWILIGHT 
Dimly-lit, noisy, blue-collar airline bar. Machinists and mechanics still in their overalls at the bar, drinking, watching ESPN FIGHT NIGHT, on TV. Bud searches the crowd. A group of middle-aged men wave him over, BLUESTAR AIRLINES insignias on the pockets... CHARLIE DENT, a rugged, chain- smoking ex-Marine Sergeant, and DOMINICK AMATO, a big strong Italian greet Buddy as he comes over. 
CHARLIE Buddy boy, how ya doing? 
CARL Damn right, it gets us out from under suspension. We'll get those new routes to Pittsburgh and Boston and the equipment we need. We're gonna compete with the big boys now. 
BUD (boasts) Hey to Bluestar, as your broker all I can advise is hold on to that stock Dad... 
They drink. Bud reflects a moment. 
BUD You sure about this FAA announcement? 
CARL About what? 
BUD The FAA announcement. 
CARL Sure I'm sure. Buddy, you got that mischievous look in your eyes. You used to smile just like that when you were a baby sleeping, just like that. 
Bud's mind racing elsewhere. 
INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - UPPER WEST SIDE - NIGHT 
A cramped studio facing an air shaft with bars on the window. Moving across to the sound of the radio alarm going off and the glib tones of a rock D.J. announcing the Met's latest streak ... The walls are papered with stock analyses and graphs, print out pages strewn across the floor. No other semblance of a personal life except clothes haphazardly tossed, Barron's and Fortune magazines. A GIRL's back is all we see, sleeping naked on the bed. 
Close on Bud's IBM computer -- his appointment calendar. Bud focusing on an underlined notation: G.G.'s BIRTHDAY. 
Bud stares at the clock: 4 a.m. He picks up a prospectus for a chemical company, starts reading. 
EXT. GEKKO BUILDING - MORNING 
Bud, crossing lower Broadway, enters a magnificent towering glass structure. 
INT. GORDON GEKKO PENTHOUSE OFFICES - MORNING 
NATALIE, Gekko's British secretary, is completing shorthand notes as the intercom buzzes. A logo for "GEKKO & CO. is behind her. 
RECEPTION (off) ... I have a delivery here for Mr. Gekko. It's a personal item and the gentleman says you have to sign for it. 
NATALIE (frowning) ...all right, send him in... 
INT. HALLWAY - MORNING 
Bud, somewhat nervous, is led down an impressive hallway hung with expensive modern art... past a huge Calder mobile and a pool of some 15 traders on phones, quotron terminals and keyboards... into Natalie's outer office. 
BUD Hello, Natalie, you recognize the voice? I'll give you a hint, you're thinking seriously about marrying me... 
NATALIE (recognizing the voice) What are you doing here? 
BUD ...And you're even lovelier than I pictured. I brought a birthday present for Mr. Gekko. 
NATALIE First of all, Mr. Fox, you can't just come barging in here. And what makes you think it's his birthday? 
Bud takes out an old crumpled Fortune magazine cover of Gordon Gekko, entitled "Gekko the Great!" 
BUD It's in the bible, see. You better go buy him a present. Please, Natalie. Let me give him the gift; Cuban cigars--Davidoff, his favorite and hard to get. 
NATALIE (sighs) Stay here, I'll see what I can do. 
She takes the gift and enters Gekko's office. Bud paces nervously. Natalie re-appears, stern, but a note of compromise in her voice. 
NATALIE Wait outside. 
INT. GEKKO OFFICES - OUTSIDE RECEPTION AREA - DAY 
Bud on the courtesy phone, hangs up, looks nervously at his watch. Almost 12. He's lost some two hours of business. Natalie suddenly comes out, without a smile. 
NATALIE Five minutes... 
Bud brightens, pumping himself in the mirror, muttering. 
BUD (to Natalie) Well... life all comes down to a few moments, and this is one of 'em... 
He follows Natalie. 
INT. GORDON GEKKO'S OFFICE (BUD'S POV) - DAY 
Furnishings in hypermodern gray and black lacquer, Modern Art ranging from black field paintings by Ad Reinhardt to the smashed dishes of Julian Schnabel. Nautilus equipment, hi-tech gadgets are in evidence, including a splendid Howard Miller World Time Clock, and a world map... 
Three of Gekko's people, young MBA's dressed for success, are scattered about the room, on phones, calculators, coming in and out. 
She looks at him, not quite sure. Is he serious or glib? 
BLONDE (uncommitted) Grand Marnier. 
BUD Sounds like a french word, what is it? 
BLONDE It's a romantic and tragic drink. 
BUD Sounds tempting. I prefer mine with a twist of fate. You know like us meeting. Don't go away... 
Maybe, just maybe she's his! His eyes show it as he hurries back to the bar to order. As he gets the bartender's attention, he turns and sees that she is joined by a MAN who looks as if he stepped out of the pages of GQ. Together they walk away. Stung, Bud watches as the woman of his dreams disappears out the door. 
BARTENDER What do you want? 
BUD ...I just lost it. 
EXT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT (RAIN) 
Bud and a DATE he's obviously just picked up, are struggling to be seen in a mass of people trying to get in the hottest new club in Manhattan. Bud easing forward along the ropes to a large BOUNCER who roughly pushes one of the bridge-and- tunnel kids back across the rope. 
Joe discreetly shows him $50 but they guy says: "No room!," humiliating him in front of his date. The bouncer shoving Bud aside as Gordon Gekko and KATE, his wife, and ENTOURAGE (ALEX, others) are shown through the ropes into the door. Bud says something to Gordon but it gets lost in the confusion. 
EXT. 79TH STREET & BROADWAY - EARLY DAY 
People pouring into the subway on the way to work. Bud rifles through the Financial Times he's just bought at the newsstand and finds the article he was looking for: BLUESTAR EXONERATED IN 1984 CRASH. He thrusts his fist in the air, victoriously...bounds down the subway stairs. 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
Bud's on the quotron and the phone; the word's spread around the office, he's landed Gekko and brokers drop by his desk to get the lowdown. 
BUD (on the phone) What's it at now? Still moving. Great! 
STEEPLES The man of the day. Pour some water on him to cool him off...one of these days I want to know how you got Gekko's account. 
BUD (indicating Dan's Yale tie) My magic tie, Dan. 
STEEPLES I'll trade you. 
Lou Mannheim and a Chinese LADY BROKER intersect. 
CHINESE LADY Gordo the Great, way to go. 
MANNHEIM (pleased) Good little company. I remember when we got the money for Bluestar to build those first planes, back in the fifties. 
CHINESE LADY (to Bud) I hear you're buying Teldar. 
Bud smiles back at her mischievously. 
BUD Sleep with me and the secrets of the West are yours. 
MANNHEIM Now that's a crap company, sure you'll make money on the takeover rumor, but what's being created. Nothing. No substance behind it. 
BUD (succinct) Old values. Buy. 
She hears him. As they go, Marvin swivels madly over in his chair. 
MARV Buddy, buddy, some buddy; why didn't you tell me to buy Bluestar. 
BUD Hey Marv, he demanded confidentiality... 
MARV Gimme a break. You buy Bluestar Airlines yesterday. Today they just happen to get good news and the stock goes bat shit. You must have ESP. A real Nostradamus. (Bud ignoring him, picking up the phone) Jesus Christ, what are friends for? 
BUD All right, I owe you one Marv. 
MARV That's right, next time a little birdie talks to you, talk to me too E.F. Hutton. 
GINA (pool secretary) Buddy, phone...Gordon Gekko! 
Everybody in the adjacent area turns and looks at Buddy like in an E.F. Hutton commercial. 
BUD (on phone) Hi Natalie...lunch at 21? (looks at watch) I'm out the door... 
As he springs up to leave, Lynch the manager happens to be strolling by. He nods pleasantly at Buddy. 
LYNCH Nice piece of work, Fox. Why don't you join me and the partners for lunch tomorrow in the dining room? 
A stretch limo is parked in front, neighborhood WINOS inspecting it. The CHAUFFEUR opens the back door, as Lisa steps inside, Buddy in tow. The winos clap, howling at her. 
INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT 
Bud in the back seat next to Lisa, gazes out the black tinted window as they drive away, then turns to her as she gives him a bottle of Champagne to open. 
BUD So, where are we going? 
LISA Wherever you like, Lutece, 21, the River Cafe...or maybe we can just drive around for a while. (provocatively) Work up an appetite. 
She crosses her legs. Bud's eyes moving south. He pops the cork. Lisa does a little blow, offers him. 
LISA Want some? (he shorts) Gordon tells me you're a very talented broker. What do you like? 
BUD (feeling the rush) Like? Uh...hmmm. Well... 
LISA I got this guy who should know tells me buy Hewlitt Packard but I been burned on tips. What do you think Bud? 
BUD Let's see, it closed at uh, 41 (his voice cracking) Up a quarter...very attractive... about average yield... 
She unzips his fly. 
BUD Rising profits...strong balance sheets, good earnings per share. 
LISA (removing her blouse) So you're hot on this stock? 
BUD (nods, moaning) It's ready to take off. I'd jump all over it if I were you. 
As she pulls up her skirt and climbs on top of Buddy. 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - MORNING 
Buddy, in an obviously new Mort Sills suit, struts past Carolyn at the reception desk, in high spirits. 
CAROLYN (smiles) Morning Buddy, you look happy. 
BUD Any better and I'd be guilty. 
CAROLYN (picking up the flow) You were never that innocent sugarpie. 
BUD (coyly) ...how do you know? You wish... 
WIPE TO: 
Bud on the phone, gazing at the ticker, concern in his eyes. CLICKING of the tape ticker comes up over the music. He looks at Marv. 
WIPE TO: 
Later. Research reports piling up. Bud's secretary trying to get his attention. Bud's concern growing, as the green fluorescent numbers spit across the board. CLICKER growing louder. Pan to Marvin, hands cupped in prayer. To Dan Steeples who closes his eyes and shakes his head. 
WIPE TO: 
Close. Bud watching the tape -- dizzying, hypnotic blur of numbers. The roar of the clicker, drowning out the music...a runaway freight train. 
WIPE TO: 
Bud's hands clamped over his eyes. The numbers stop. Noise recedes. He opens his eyes, looks down at his desk, stacked with reports and phone messages, as the pool secretary, GINA, calls out. Marvin glumly coasts over in his chair. 
MARV Boy, we sure went down the toilet on that ugly bitch. If we were Japs, we'd have to stay with our aircraft. 
GINA (calls out) Mr. Gekko's office is after you. Be at the Wyatt Club courts at six... 
Bud looks worried, at Marvin. 
INT. WYATT CLUB SQUASH COURTS - DAY 
Games in progress on the four courts, heavy hitting sounds. Crossing to Gekko and Bud going at it. Bud is obviously the worse for wear. 
GEKKO (amused) ...come on sport, you gotta try harder, I need some exercise for chrissake... 
BUD (out of breath) Mr. Gekko, I don't think I can...go on. 
GEKKO ...finish out the game, Bud, push yourself... 
Meant paternally or sadistically, it's hard to tell. Gekko hits the ball, a big fat shot. Bud returns, Gekka moves him around the court, as if punishing him, the kid exhausted but the ball's never quite out of reach -- till Bud finally can't take it anymore and at the end of his breath, smashes into the wall and collapses. Gekko laughs. Bud lying there like a sad dog as Gekka hauls him up. 
The car pulls over. Gekko checks his watch, pulls out the telephone. 
GEKKO ...when it comes to money, sport, everybody's of the same religion. Or should be... Hope you don't mind if I let you off here, I'm late for a meeting. Good bye, nice knowing you. 
EXT. PARK AVENUE - TWLIGHT 
The CHAUFFEUR lets Bud out the door... Bud looks back at Gekko. 
BUD All right, Mr. Gekko...you got me. 
His eyes telling us he is weighed down by chains of guilt. 
Gekko smiles, gazes at the twilight skyline, a sudden look of contentment. 
GEKKO Yeah, it's a beautiful night. I love this hot stinkin' city. (pointing up Park Avenue) ... nothing else like it in the world. Seven million people living on each other's heads, kids born, millionaires dying, people praying, junkies, whores, wills, lawyers, deals, parties, sex... guys like you sport -- dreaming about the big score. You know the best thing about New York is everything you can do here. And the worst thing is everything you can't do here... 
He shuts the door. Bud watches as the limo drives off. 
EXT. FIFTH AVENUE APARTMENT - DAY 
Bud, in a suit, waits next to a motorcycle across from one of the most desirable addresses in New York. 
The Doorman rushes to open the door under the canopy as a tall strong man in his fifties emerges with a LAWYER TYPE and a FEMALE EXECUTIVE. The man is SIR LAWRENCE WILDMAN and his manner and gait convey the impression of an authoritative presence with little patience as the chauffeur opens the door and he slides into the back seat of the limo. 
Buddy, astride Marv's Kawasaki 500, hits the streets after him. The music through the following Montage should suggest a chase brio. 
EXT. WALL STREET BUILIDING - DAY 
Bud shooting past the Trinity Church structure... Wildman gets out of his limo with his people, strides into the lobby. 
Bud quickly parks his bike on the sidewalk and rushes in after them... not a second too late. 
INT. LOBBY - WALL STREET BUILDING - DAY 
Bud just manages squeeze in the elevator with Wildman and crew -- and -- a couple of other early birds -- as the doors close. 
INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 
Bud eyeing Wildman, looks away as Wildman looks back at him, an edge of defiance to him, why are you staring at me? Not the world's most likeable personality. 
INT. KAHN, SEIDELMAN - OUTER OFFICE - DAY 
The doors open and Wildman and Co. step out into the reception area of Kahn, Seidelman... The doors close and Buddy continues upward. 
EXT. WALL STREET BUILDING - LATER MORNING 
The street now jammed with people hurrying to work. Buddy paces the curb, reacting when Wildman walks out, saying goodbye to the female executive and getting in the limo with his lawyer... Buddy follows. 
INT. LE CIRQUE RESTAURANT - PARK AVENUE - DAY 
Formal French haute cuisine. Power lunches in progress. As Wildman is seated with several well-dressed BANKERS at a good table, Bud tries to wrangle a table (next to Mr. Wildman on top of everything from a stiff looking Maitre d' who shakes his head, barely concealing his attitude towards Buddy's youth and general demeanor. 
EXT. LE CIRQUE - DAY 
Buddy waits outside, bored, as Wildman steps out, shakes hands with the bankers... Bud making an entry into his notebook like any good spy. 
EXT. MIDTOWN TUNNEL QUEENS - DAY 
Music rising to triumphant proportions. AERIAL SHOT of Limo emerging from the tunnel and onto the Long Island Expressway. CAMERA MOVES IN, picking up Buddy on the Kawasaki, darting through lanes, staying several car lengths behind. 
EXT. LAGUARDIA AIRPORT - DAY 
The Limo winds its way along the perimeter road, past commercial airliners. It takes the turnoff for Butler Aviation. Buddy exits the ramp shortly after them. 
EXT. BUTLER AVIATION AIRFIELD - DAY 
A corporate saberliner jet, its engines running, idles at the end of the taxiway. The limo pulls up along the tarmac next to it and Wildman steps out, walking past a MECHANIC to the stairs of the plane. A STEWARDESS waits for him. 
EXT. RAMP - DAY 
Bud watches, wondering what to do as the plane taxies down the runway. He spots the flight mechanic and the answer comes to him. He starts running towards the mechanic. 
EXT. APRON - DAY 
Bud races up to the mechanic. 
The Korean HOUSEBOY coming in. 
HOUSEBOY Calls for you, sir, a reporter from Time magazine on two, says it's important... and a Mr. Fox on three. GEKKO (annoyed) I come to the country and it's worse than the city! I'm not home... (changes mind, pushes in) Yeah? 
BUD (off) Mr. Gekko, I've been trying to reach you. We got the options. We got a good execution on them! 
Meanwhile, the kid has no intention of going anywhere and plants his feet and emits the loudest shrieking this side of the fat lady in the opera. 
GEKKO Nicole! Take him will you... 
Handing the bawling, writhing mass of anger to Nicole as if it were laundry she doesn't want to touch... Nicole takes him screaming out of the room... Gordon trying to concentrate on the TV. 
INTERCUT TO: 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
Papers and charts are strewn around, trailing down to a box of take-out pizza and empty beer bottles. Bud has stayed late. 
BUD (almost apologetic, speeding on the high of the buy...) I got all I could get which was 750,000 shares plus 5000 March 50 calls. Average price of $47 a share And $4 per contract for the call. I just wish I could've got more. 
GEKKO Don't expect to get it all, sport, you'll burn out. First rule of business is never get emotional about stock, clouds the judgment. Where do we stand? BUSINESS ANALYST In response to an inquiry from the New York Stock Exchange, management issued a terse no comment. Wildman would not return phone calls. Analysts believe the company is worth $75 per share in a transaction. 
KATE John and Carmen are here and the Livingstons are on their way... 
GEKKO (nods, listening to phone) I'll be right there, fix them a drink. 
BUD (shifting the figures) ...we have 37.2 million invested. At this point, we're up 3.1 million and some change. If it goes to 75 bucks we can clean close to 12 mill. 
GEKKO (smiles) You're walking between the raindrops kid. I expect Sir Larry is choking on his royal chamber pot by now. 
BUD My firm needs your signature on these option agreements tonight, sir, otherwise we could take a real bath tomorrow. 
GEKKO (sighs) ...Can't it wait? I'm good for it. (Bud waits, "Sir") ...Awright. Come out, get the directions from Natalie and hurry up. 
EXT. GEKKO'S BEACH HOUSE - BRIDGEHAMPTON - NIGHT 
Bud's P.O.V. as he pulls up to an austere, ultra- sophisticated monolith of glass and wood dominating a stretch of dune overlooking the Atlantic's angry surf. Several Jags, state of the art Jeeps and a Rolls are drawn up outside. 
Bud, getting out of his faded Honda, goes up the stairs to the door. He rings several times. 
A BLACK BUTLER opens it and looks at Buddy somewhat warily. Laughter and voices are heard from inside. 
BUTLER (pretentiously: high English accent) Can I help you? 
BUD Bud Fox. Got some papers for Mr. Gekko to sign. 
BUTLER Wait a moment please. 
Without thinking he closes the door in Joe's face. He stands there, harrassed peering around through a window on the lawn. A small gathering of friends in progress around a glowing fireplace. The butler waves him in from the door. 
INT. GEKKO ALCOVE - NIGHT 
Bud enters, as Gekko approaches.  He seems annoyed to be disturbed at his country home. 
BUD (apologetic) Sorry, Mr. Gekko. 
GEKKO (takes the papers) Allright. Wait here... 
About to go when his wife, Kate Gekko, comes over. A pretty dark-haired woman. 
KATE Problems? 
GEKKO No... Bud Fox, my wife, Kate... 
They exchange pleasantries. 
KATE You came from the city? (with a look to Gordon) Long drive, have a drink. 
Gekko doesn't seem to like the idea, but... 
GEKKO Yeah, why not, Bud boy... Kate's walking back inside to her guests, as Bud sidles over to Gekko. 
BUD ...if you'd rather not, Mr. Gekko, I can leave... 
INT. GEKKO LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 
DARIEN Where is it? 
BUD Upper West Side. 
DARIEN (losing interest fast) Oh really. Home of the exposed brick wall and the (shudders) houseplant. 
BUD Oh it's just a rental. I'm moving to the East Side soon. I've got a couple of deals brewing with Gordon. (shifts uncomfortably with his pretension) but that's just conversation... what about real things? Like dinner. The two of us. Friday. Cafe. Santo Domingo. 
Bud waits, staring suddenly and deeply into her eyes. 
DARIEN What if I have a previous engagement? 
BUD Break it. 
DARIEN I guess this must be destiny alright. My first yuppie apartment and... (pats him on the cheek flirtatiously) my first yuppie. 
BUD (gives her a steely glare) You may call me a yuppie... It's Mister Yuppie to you. 
They both laugh. 
BUD (gets serious) So. See you Friday. 
DARIEN You really do believe in destiny? 
BUD Only if I want something bad enough. 
Her date, Mr. GQ, SAMMY RUSPOLI intersects with Kate. A cultivated European air. 
SAM ...there you go again, Darien, talking with strange men. 
KATE That's our Darien: elusive, reclusive, exclusive. (to Sam) You know Bud right? He works for Gordon... (Sam nodding, makes conversation, big smile) Sam's in banking. You staying for dinner Bud? 
BUD (hesitant, eyes Darien) No, I'm afraid I've got to get some work... 
Kate noticing the doorbell ringing. 
KATE ...excuse me. 
Sam muttering something in Darien's ear of an intimate nature. She glides away with him. 
DARIEN (to Bud) Call me next week, I'll give you an estimate... 
An ironic promise in her eyes... Bud ecstatic inside... looks over, goes to the foyer... 
INT. GEKKO ALCOVE - NIGHT (RAIN) 
SIR LARRY WILDMAN walks in, his country gentleman clothing somewhat softening his imposing figure but not the cultured rapacious eagle's face. With him a lawyer. 
KATE (strained) Larry, how have you been? Get you a drink? 
WILDMAN (slightly impatient) Oh fine. Travelling actually. Nothing thank you. Is... 
KATE Gordon?... He's right here. 
As Gordon intersects, casually tasting a spot of the dinner. 
GEKKO Larry! Excuse me "sir" Larry, great to see you again, you're looking good. (handshakes) 
WILDMAN Gordon... (sniffing the guests and furnishings in the room as if they were stale air) 
BUD (leaving, to Gordon) I guess I'll head back... GEKKO (spontaneously) Stick around... Larry, one of my "gang" -- Bud Fox. 
Pleasantries. Bud nervously shakes hands, sensing Wildman might recognize him from being tailed in the elevator. There indeed is a moment but Wildman's attention blurs as... 
GEKKO Shall we go upstairs? 
INT. GEKKO DEN - NIGHT (RAIN) 
Gordon enters a den lined with old books hunting prints;  he proudly picks up something from his gun collection. 
GEKKO Rarest pistol in the world, Larry, a .45 Luger. Only six were ever manufactured. 
WILDMAN Congratulations but rarer still is your interest in Anacott Steel. 
GEKKO The same interest as yours Larry. Money. I thought it'd be a good investment for my kid... 
ROGER Can't complain. Got a house in Oyster Bay. Market treating you good? Still seeing that sexy French gal? 
BUD Nah, she asked the wrong question. 
ROGER What was that? 
BUD "What are you thinking?"...that was it. The hours are hell, but the money's starting to tumble in. I know this guy who's got an iron- clad way to make money, I can't lose and I can't get hurt. 
ROGER (interested) So, does "this guy" have a tip for an honest lawyer? 
BUD Yeah, check out Teldar Paper, it's still not over. 
ROGER Okay. 
BUD What about you, I hear you guys are handling the Fairchild Foods merger and it may not be going through. Any surprises I haven't read about in the Wall Street Journal? 
ROGER (casually) Come on Buddy, you wouldn't want to got me disbarred now would you? 
BUD (equally casual, looks at the walls) Who's listening? It's just one college buddy talking to another. 
ROGER (sarcastic) Yeah, right... 
BUD Relax, Roger, everybody's doing it but you don't know, you don't know. 
ROGER ...and if I did, what's in it for moi? 
He obviously has thought about it before. Bud smiles back, nonchalant. 
BUD More money than you ever dreamed, Roger. And the thing is no one gets hurt...how bout a beer? 
ROGER (some doubt) Too much to do...but I'll walk you out. 
INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - EVENING 
They walk out past the CLEANING CREWS coming in for the evening, drones of the vacuum cleaners... 
Bud looks - his POV... A CLEANING WOMAN as she pulls the vacuum cleaner into one of the senior partners offices, the desk crammed with proposals, Bud is lost in thought. 
ROGER (teasing) ...Get inside my uncle's door Buddy, all the secrets of the world are yours... the life blood of companies, but you gotta go to law school first... 
EXT. BARNES' OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT 
Bud comes out of the building and starts walking away. As he passes the freight entrance, Bud abruptly notices a van marked MARSALA MAINTENENCE COMPANY. He looks back, thinks for a moment: a look in his eyes. 
EXT. LONG ISLAND CITY - LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK - DAY 
Bud walks past a row of small warehouses and enters one. 
INT. MARSALA MAINTENANCE OFFICE AND GARAGE SERVICE - DAY 
He steps into a shabby reception area. A chain-smoking OLD LADY looks up from the switch-board. 
BUD I need to speak to the owner about some business. 
INT. BACK OFFICE - DAY 
The owner, a GREEK with bushy mustache and hardened face, sits at his desk eating lunch, eyeing Bud suspiciously. 
BUD (handing him a card) Mr. Panos, I've charted the growth of new office space in the city, and I think you're in the right business at the right time. 
PANOS Thank you for telling me what I already know. 
BUD I'm impressed with your work and I could use a tax break. This is a growing business. Are you interested in some working capital and a partner? 
Panos puts down his sandwich, measuring Bud. 
PANOS What makes you think I need a partner?! 
Bud smiles, ready with his spiel. 
An elevator opens. A body steps out. A set of keys. Boom up past a clipboard and pen to a shirt pocket with MARSALA MAINTENANCE written on it, up to Bud dressed in janitorial clothing. 
We move with him to the CREW SUPERVISOR who introduces THREE CLEANING WOMEN who nervously absorb Bud, worried for their jobs. 
Bud strolls from office to office, looking official, overseeing his crew, making notations on a checklist. 
HAROLD ...So it's in both our interests to put a safe distance between you and us... (passing a document with a 2nd pen) ...this gives you limited power of attorney for Mr. Gekko's account. Every trade you make is at your discretion. Every ticket you buy must be marked "power of attorney." That means you call the shots and Mr. Gekko has no official knowledge of what stocks you're buying. Sign here and here... 
Buddy looks, then up to Gekko, who smiles, casual. 
GEKKO ...just the beginning, sport, just the begining... 
Bud smiles, signs. 
HAROLD (a worrier) ...you understand if any problems arise, you're out there on your own. The trail stops with you... 
BUD All's fair in love and war. 
GEKKO The art of which is deception. Spread the buy orders through different accounts and you won't get burned... 
BUD I think I got some friends that won't mind making some easy money... 
As Kate drifts over with Rudy and the French au pair GIRL, NICOLE. 
GEKKO Rudy, viens ici, dit bonjour a Monsieur Bud. 
Rudy either says "No!" or "Bonjour Monsieur Bud!' depending on the mood of the kid. Gordon sweeping him up and playing with him. The kid squeals with glee. 
GEKKO (proudly) Already speaks a little French, kid got the highest score on his IQ test. 
KATE (to Darien) ...it's so tough to get into a good nursery school now. They even visit your home to make sure your paintings and furnishings are acceptable. 
BUD What's it cost these days? 
KATE $5,000 just for the tuition... plus the books and supplies... (with a look to Gordon) ...some parents even have bodyguards. It's not a bad idea... (picking up Rudy) ...now that's it for you with the grown-ups young man. 
As Rudy smashes the strawberries around his face and resists going. "No! No!" Kate exasperated gives the child to Nicole. 
KATE Nicole, take him for a nap, please. 
NICOLE He doesn't nap anymore, Madame. It's been... 
KATE (stung) Then play with him till he gets tired. We're going out tonight but we like to see him at, let's see, six; give him a bath and put that cute little black suit on him... (to Bud and Gordon) Black clothes are the newest things, so chic and milk stains, carrot juice stains just don't show up. Kids -- boy, can they take it out of you! 
Nicole's "Oui, Madame" is lost in the wrestling match she goes through to drag him out screaming. Kate walking off. Harold gives Buddy another piece of paper... 
HAROLD This is a contact at one of our banks. On settlement day you'll open an account there for Mr. Gekko under the name of Geneva, Roth Holding Corp. Then you'll wire transfer the money to this account in the Cayman Islands... 
GEKKO (rising, finished with lunch) Think about incorporating yourself there, Bud, Harold will take care of it for you. (with a look to Harold) ... at a reasonable fee. You're gonna make a lot of money now Bud... stakes are gonna go up, no mistakes... 
BUD ...piece of cake, Gordon... 
EXT. BEACHFRONT - DAY 
The camera glides off some FISHERMEN hauling their catch off their beached boat to Darien who comes tromping out of the surf, water glistening off her lean athletic body. Bud stands before her, cool seductive eyes, holding out a towel. She steps up to him and smiles inscrutably. Takes the towel from him, drying herself, instead. 
DARIEN (gazing at the beach) If I could have anything... this would almost do. 
BUD Yeah, almost... 
Looks at her, stifles his thought. 
DARIEN (teasing) So, how did your conference go with Gordon? 
BUD The conference, oh yeah. Fine. We reached an agreement and decided to divide up the world between us. 
DARIEN (laughs) You have modest wants. I like that in a man. 
BUD And what do you want? 
DARIEN ...a Turner, a perfect canary diaiaond... a Lear jet... world peace... the best of everything... 
BUD Well, why stop at that? 
DARIEN I don't. 
BUD (has to smile) You're not trouble by any chance. Are you? 
She looks at him, tosses the towel over her shoulder and starts back toward the house. Buddy watches her go. 
INT. HOTEL BALLROOM - DAY 
BUD (thrilled) Thank you, Janet...thank you, Mr. Lynch. 
LYNCH No, thank you. I knew the minute I laid eyes on you, you had what it takes Bud. Just keep it going. 
He winks and leaves. Charlie Cushing comes in, Marv sticks his head in the doorway, a grudging smile. 
MARV So, its Mister Fox now. 
INT. CONDOMINIUM APARTMENT - UPPER EAST SIDE - DAY 
A splendid four-room thirtieth floor aerie overlooking Central Park. SYLVIE DRIMMER, anchored down with jewelry and a large fur purse, shows Bud around. 
SYLVIE ...everybody tells ya they hate the Upper East Side and they wanna live on the West Side but honey when it comes to resale time, believe me the East Side's the one that always moves. What do you get on the West Side? (contemptuously) Madonna and Sean?... between Sly and Billy and Christie, I've shown every apartment on the Upper East Side. Everybody lives here... Mick, Gloria and Barbara Wa-Wa. Even Klaus von Bulow buys his fresh fruit from the Korean on Madison. It's so expensive and it's just like the ones on Eighth Avenue but it's an attitude is all, you pay for attitude (pointing to a walk- in closet) ...two walk-in closets...upstairs on the roof you lot a health club...massage, sauna, jacuzzi, sunlights, best schools in the city, cute boy like you gotta think of a ladyfriend when you're finished wolfing around -- ('course I'm taken) ...oak strip floor...my husband can get you a 10% mortgage...I'd do it myself if we weren't into four other deals already...so?... (beat) I got a four o'clock and a five...one of them's an all-cash type, Monique something or other...I guarantee you this place is history tomorrow... 
Bud looks around. The city at his feet. Lost in thought. Sylvie has to call him out of it: "honey? -- The meter's running. Anybody home?" 
BUD All right. Offer 950... 
Sylvie tries to play it cool, her expression conveying a somewhat stunned look at the speed and certainty of the response. 
SYLVIE ...I think you gotta deal, honey... you sure you don't wanna see somethin' I got on Sutton Place. It's a million and a half but... 
BUD Nah...this is it..home... 
Looking it over, proud. 
INTERIOR DECORATING MONTAGE 
The music is geared to speed, money, triumph and just plain material fun. 
INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY/NIGHT 
In its first stage, Darien supervising. It's expanse of white walls devoid of mouldings, a blank plaster canvas. The city views are great, the apartment identical to hundreds of other cookie cutter condos. Several young artists are working on a neo-classical mural on the long side of the living room. They are colorfully dressed, listening to a TALKING HEADS tape while they work. A carpenter who looks like a member of Duran Duran is installing a pair of old columns from Urban Archaeology on either side of the entrance to the living room while another fits a brass sink into an antique sideboard which has been turned into a bar. 
INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY/NIGHT 
INTERIOR DECORATING MONTAGE - SECOND STAGE 
Living room furniture arrives. A fantail shrimp chaise from Art Furniture's "Sushi Collection" arrives, along with an enormous sofa encased in an ecru linen slipcover made deliberately baggy and tied on with rows of self bows on each end, several faux Etruscan pots wired up as lamps, a poured concrete coffee table that looks like it came from Pompeii, and a hand-painted floor cloth instead of a rug for the bleached floor with the stencilled border... Darien sitting in a fantastical adirondack chair made from gnarled branches, amused by Bud's reactions to the furniture. 
THIRD STAGE. The kitchen has the latest compact computer dishwasher and compact microwave, garbage compactor, and sinks with infrared controls... A brief food montage gives us a sense of the modernist approach to food and its preparation: 
1) Darien hones the knives on the electric knife sharpener as 
2) Bud uses a stainless steel Cape Cod oyster opener to work on two dozen oysters... 
3) at the same time working on the automatic vinaigrette mixer, the phone ringing to the tune of Mozart's "Jupiter"... 
BUD (picking it up) Yes...no...at 37 1/2. Convert the bonds right...and check the price in Tokyo at 8:00 LA time. Thanks... 
4) As he starts his pasta sauce flame an his O'Reilly fat- free grill with a flexible neck fire starter... 
5) A freshly heated roll pops out of a hanging space-saving toaster, as Darien works the electric pasta maker while melting the frozen ice cream cartons in the microwave. 
6) Bud manages to sneak a kiss an her lips humming the bars from Verdi's "Rigoletto" as he works the piece de la resistance--the automatic sushi maker... 
7) Dinner is finally served on a demolished dinner table. Red wine, pasta, sushi...it looks perfect, lit by candlelight, the view of the city below. 
DARIEN ...isn't it perfect! 
BUD ...too perfect...let's not even eat. Let's just watch it and think about it. (pause) 
FOURTH STAGE - INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY 
Bud goes over a stack of bills with something approaching concern as the gothic oak refectory table which seats 20 is carried in, followed by a Jean Michel Basquiat featuring a skull on a rough board. Darien instructs the movers to place an important pair of satinwood Art Deco armchairs upholstered in buttery suede (last Saturday's auction purchase for $20,000) at either end of the titanic sofa. No vestige is left of the cookie cutter space we first saw. Walls have been removed, mouldings and architectural found objects added, imitation rare woods, marbles and frescos have been created from nothing by the magic hands of the tromp l'oeil crew. The point is, decorating can transform. 
INT. CONDO - NIGHT 
The look of the place is evocative of ancient times, yet sumptuous. Darien and Bud sink into the bales of down in the sofa and are dwarfed. She rests her head on a hand stencilled velvet Venetian throw pillow, looking like a Pre-Raphaelite madonna. A terracotta pot with a spray of white phaleonopsis graces the coffee table. As the sun sets over the canyons of highrises, Bud walks around his new home totally in awe. This apartment, perfect in its restrained taste with all the "correct" flowers and objects, has nothing to do with him. Perhaps he can understand the state-of-the-art kitchen, the computerized telephone, stereo and light system, but he needs a set of instructions just to be able to switch on David Letterman. 
This apartment is Darien's fantasy, and Bud is merely the incidental client who paid for it. Most importantly to her, it is ready to be photographed by House and Garden. 
BUD (dubiously looking at a rough plaster wall of fading fresco) You know, the elevator man couldn't believe I paid $300,000 to have my walls looking like this, he's got them for free in Brooklyn. 
DARIEN I'll bet he's got an opinion on the stock market too. This apartment is already ahead of its time. I call it the "demolished" look. They've already heard about it at House and Garden and they're coming next week to photograph it before it gets... lived in. Is that alright? I'd love to have it in my portfolio. 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
BUD (on the phone) ...it's easy Jack! On settlement day, you endorse a check to Blue Horseshoe Trading Company. Then I send you your cut. 
Marv waves across the glass partition and knocks. But Bud waves him off, closing the blinds. 
BUD (CONT'D) ...that's the bottom line. And nobody gets hurt. 
Marv now walks it, exasperated. 
MARV ...things are so bad, even the liars are complaining. And you're making money. So what gives? What's the bottom line? 
As he tries to peak at Bud's quotron screen, but Bud flicks it off, pissed. 
BUD Hey, I'm tired of playing nurse to you all the time, alright. Do your own home work! 
Marvin abruptly walks out, "asshole!". Bud books the order for Morning Star Corp -- MSC -- 50,000 June options. 
INT. AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - LATER THAT DAY 
The COMPANY FLOOR MANAGER gets Bud's order, hands a ticket to a RUNNER who dashes off across the exchange floor, and over to a TRADER who starts to execute the order. 
CLOSE on the broad tape. As Bud's large buy order flickers across it -- MSC -- 50,000 June options. 
INT. AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - S.E.C. OPTIONS WATCH OFFICE - DAY 
A CLERK sits before a computer routinely tracking all of the exchange floor trading. He runs a check on a transaction. 
Computer Screen -- The same numbers and letters are seen that just flickered across the broad tape... Bud's buy. 
The clerk swivels his chair to a second computer and punches up data. A MAN appears behind him, leaning over his shoulder, and wears an ID BADGE. The clerk vacates his seat to the man with the badge, who now takes over. 
INT. BUD'S CONDO - NIGHT 
Bud is in silk boxers on the phone, number crunching on the computer, foot pounding to a music beat on the stereo, while his telex spews out overnight currency data. 
Darien in the background lies in bed in panties reading Vogue. 
BUD (into the phone) Buy me 20 June Euro Dollar CDs. Twenty March gold and sell 10 September Deutsch marks. That's right... 
He hangs up, back to the computer a growing look of excitement and revelation in his eyes. 
On the computer screen we see a break up Of Bluestar Airlines -- its assets and liabilities. 
Bud hits the command key, printing it out. He's exuberant. 
BUD Bud, I hate to tell you this but you're a genius! (to Darien) Darien...lightning has struck! The lightbulb has been invented. Edison, Da Vinci, Einstein are watching... 
DARIEN (grumpy) ...are you going to trade all night again? You got to go to work in a couple of hours. 
BUD You think I'm gonna broker the rest of my life... I'm going to be a giant, Darien, an entrepreneur in the Italian 15th century sense of the word -- a mover, shaker. 
Bud dances over to the bed turning the stereo down on his way. 
BUD I love you, baby. Did I tell you that sometime in the last 24 hours? 
DARIEN Get in bed. Y'ever hear of the sixty hour work week? You're turning into a yuppie Frankenstein, you love money so much. 
Bud grabs a bottle of Ferrier off the night table and drinks. 
BUD Sure, why not, money's the sex of the 80's. I never had it like you when I was growing up, baby, it wasn't the upper east side. 
DARIEN You're so naive Bud, you don't even know. Your dad took care of you. I might've been rich when I was a kid...but my father lost all his money...in the seventies, in the stock market, at the track. He was a lousy gambler... 
BUD (teasing) ...that changes all my plans, I thought you were loaded... 
DARIEN (laughs woefully) So did I, till I hit 19 and found I had all the royal habits and no throne. Mom got by but I had to go to work just like you. Only the skills I had were shopping and making friends. So...that's why I do what I do, what makes you tick, Buddy? 
BUD Fear. The fear of being poor I guess, just like you, Darien... But that's all gonna change sweetheart. I'm catching the express... (making love to her) ... and you're going along for the ride. 
INT. GEKKO'S PRIVATE PLANE (GULFSTREAM - 4) - DAY 
A salon interior. Gekko on a couch reading, with eyeglasses, a stack of financial reports. Alex is on the phone, Susan, and others accompanying the caravan on a business trip. Bud is excited. 
BUD ...Bluestar's an unpolished gem, Gordon, right out of the garbage. A half assed management being decimated by a price war they can't win. But the gates at LaGuardia alone can bail us out, it's worth 25 bucks a share if it's worth a dime! They're ripe to fall. 
His joke breaks the ice; they laugh, except for Carl. 
GEKKO (CONT'D) It's not always the most popular guy who gets the job done. You got losses of 20 to 30 million dollars, dividends cut to zero, you're getting squeezed to death by the majors. Present management may not be the worst scum of the earth, but they're the ones who've put you on a kamikaze course, and pretty soon everybody's going to be scrambling for the parachutes. Only there aren't enough to go around. Management has them. You don't. If they throw Bluestar into Chapter 11--which I think they will--then they can use bankruptcy laws to break your unions and your contracts and throw you guys off the property. 
We hear a loud crunching sound as Bud's father bites into a roll, glaring at Gekko. 
WILMORE (pilot) With all due respect, Mr. Gekko, what's to prevent you from doing the same thing? 
GEKKO Cause I have a way around all this, a way we can all make money and make this airline profitable again. What do you say we cut to the chase. I'm asking for a modest twenty percent across-the-board wage cut. 
Carl drops his fork on the plate. Gekko goes on. 
GEKKO And seven more hours a month. 
Toni Carpenter and Duncan Wilmore exchange questionable looks. 
CARPENTER What kind of time frame are we talking about here? 
GEKKO Give me a year. If we're still losing money, the reductions stand. If however, we move into the black, I return part of the givebacks, salaries go back to present levels, and... (a beat) we institute an employee profit sharing program with stock. You'll own part of the airline. 
Carpenter and Wilmore react with surprise, it's obvious they weren't expecting the profit sharing part. Bud smiles at Darien and looks to his father, who examines a sushi roll before putting it back. 
WILMORE Are you prepared to put that in writing? 
GEKKO I'll have a letter of agreement drawn up within two days. 
CARPENTER What's your marketing strategy? How do you plan to return us to profitability? 
GEKKO Why don't I give Bud an opportunity to answer that. 
Darien and Carl turn to Bud, who puts down his wine glass. BUD Thank you Mr. Gekko. First of all I want you to know my door will always be open to you cause I know from my Dad it's you guys that keep Bluestar flying. One -- Modernize. Our computer software is weak, we update it, we squeeze every dollar out of each seat and mile flown. You don't sell a seat to a guy for $89 when he's willing to pay $389. Effective inventory management through computerization will increase our load factor by 5 to 20%, that translates to approximately 50 to 200 million dollars in revenues; the point is, we can beat the majors at a price war. Two -- Advertising -- more, more, and aggressive, attack the majors. Three -- expand our hubs to Atlanta, North Carolina and Dallas, reorganize all our feeder schedules, think Big -- guys, we're going after the majors! 
The men are visibly shaken by Bud's determination. 
GEKKO (looking for reactions) Cards are on the table. What do you think? 
WILMORE (restrained, hopeful) If you mean what you say, I think we're in the ball park. I'll take it to my people. 
CARPENTER (approvingly) You've sketched some broad strokes. I'd like to see the fine print. But so far so good. 
Gekko looks to Carl Fox who, putting down knife and fork, breaks his silence. 
CARL I guess if a man lives long enough, he gets to see everything. And I mean everything. What else do you have in your bag of tricks, Mr. Gekko? 
Bud tenses, looking at his father. Gekko ignores the innuendo and replies softly. 
GEKKO Frankly, Carl, I can't see giving much more. If you have any suggestions I'll be glad to listen. 
CARL There came into Egypt a Pharoah who did not know. 
GEKKO (smiling) I beg your pardon. Is that a proverb? 
CARL (smiling) No, it's a prophecy. The rich have been doing it to the poor since the beginning of time. The only difference between the Pyramids and the Empire State Building is that the Egyptians didn't have unions. (looking at Wilmore and Carpenter) I know what this guy is about-- greed--he's in and out for the buck and he don't take prisoners. He don't give a damn about Northstar or us ... 
BUD Now, wait a minute, Dad... 
GEKKO (shrugs, keeping his composure) Sure. What's worth doing is worth doing for money. It's a bad bargain where nobody gains. And if this deal goes through, we all gain. 
Carl throws down his napkin, rises from the chair, looks at the others. 
CARL (looks at Bud) 'Course my son did work three summers as a baggage handler and freight loader. With those qualifications, why should I doubt his ability to run an airline? 
There is frozen silence at the table. 
GEKKO Fine, if you don't want us, stay with the scum in present management--dedicated to running you and Bluestar into the ground. 
CARL ...that "scum" built this company up from one plane in thirty years, they made something out of nothing, and if that's a scum I'll take one over a rat any day... 
Carl turns and leaves. Bud glances at Gekko, reading his piercing look. He hurries after his father. 
INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Bud catches up to Carl, waiting for the elevator, hammering him. 
BUD (seething) Congratulations. You did a great job of embarrassing me in there-- not to mention yourself! Save the "workers of the world unite" speech for next time Dad, I heard it too much growing up. You're gonna get axed Dad, no two ways about it, you and the whole airline are going down the tubes, you hear me, just like Braniff, you don't have a chance in hell, and if it isn't Gekko it's gonna be some other killer. 
BUD Yes! Read the Constitution, it's all in there. And remember--you don't know anything, nothing. 
DIXON I don't know anything! 
BUD Good. Then call him back. And call me back. Don't worry. 
He hangs up, a worried expression, Marv entering to break his concentration. 
MARV Hey you hear the news. I just got a job at a new firm: "Dewey, Cheat 'em and Howe." Yuk yuk. 
BUD (icy) Didn't I tell you to knock before you came in here? 
MARV Hey the door was open. 
BUD Then get out and close it behind you. 
MARV (pause) You know what you need, buddy buddy--an optorectomy. That's when they cut the nerve that runs from your brain to your rectum--to change that shitty attitude of yours. 
BUD Get the hell out! 
Marv slams the door on his way... 
EXT. FEDERAL BUILDING - DOWNTOWN NEW YORK - DAY 
Long shot of the towering stone structure. A tall angular figure crosses through the glass doors with a bulky folder under his arm... 
INT. LOBBY - DAY 
The man flashes his ID to a SECURITY GUARD who buzzes him through the gate... He walks towards us and we see he is the familiar tall, baby-faced INVESTIGATOR from the S.E.C. Options Watch Office... he gets in an elevator. 
INT. S.E.C. INVESTIGATION OFFICES - DAY 
He walks into the office of a CHIEF INVESTIGATOR. A balding sharp-featured man in a drab suit with bags of hard work under his eyes looks up as the young investigator places the large file in front of him. 
INT. ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - DAY 
Bud enters, preoccupied. Barnes is nervous. 
BUD So what's the problem? 
ROGER (whispers) ...got a strange call from the SEC. They asked to see my records... Bud, this is a heavy... 
BUD (shrugs) ....Relax Roget (French pronunciation) You're 82M in the account numbers and I'm the Invisible Man... they're always looking for red flags, Gekko's always getting checked by them, they never come up with anything... we're invulnerable on this... 
ROGER Alright... I just wanna slow down Bud... no more calls for awhile, no lunches... we suspend our business, alright... 
BUD Sure Roger, whatever you want, it's cool. 
A young lawyer pops his head in the room. 
LAWYER Rog, come on, bring the cost report. They started. (exits) 
ROGER (standing, to Bud) Gekko asked us into the Bluestar deal. We're reviewing the timetables, wanna come? 
BUD (surprised) He never told me... 
ROGER You're just the President of the company, what do you know? ... Come on. 
As they walk out. 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
Smoky, coffee cups and food. THREE LAWYERS, TWO INVESTMENT BANKERS, THREE COMMERCIAL BANKERS, sleeves rolled up, ties askew. A blackboard with Bluestar's assets diagrammed. A combat mood in the room. Bud walking in, feels vaguely worried, something is not quite right. 
ROGER You guys know the new chief of Bluestar... Bud Fox. 
They nod vaguely respectful but Bud's obviously a figure head to them, takes a seat off to the side. The bull-like INVESTMENT BANKER, Vietnam vet, in shirt and suspenders, is on the attack against the stuffier Commercial Bankers. 
INVESTMENT BANKER Look guys, what's the problem, let's for the kill...Gekko's got 12% and climbing plus the unions are in his pocket for now, everybody on the street knows the stock's in play (overlapping voice: up 2 1/4 since the open) by next week the street's gonna own Bluestar and management won't be able to do anything but poison their own pill. Why are you guys dicking around? Is the bank financing in place or are we gonna have more and more meetings? Our firm's gonna guarantee 25% of the total debt structure in long-term junk bonds, now you guys either sign this piece of paper right now or we're gonna pull and head for another bank for the 75... 
COMMERCIAL BANKER (older man, appeasing) ...look, we have 30 banks ready to participate in a 4 year revolving credit line but we have to have your assurance to pay back most of the loan in the first 6 months, and the only way... 
INVESTMENT BANKER (intermittently interrupting) ... 30 banks, isn't that wonderful...you got it, no problem. 
COMMERCIAL BANKER (insistent) ...and the only way we can see this happening is liquidating the hangars and the planes. Can you people guarantee that? 
GEKKO I want you with me. (waits) 
BUD I'm with you Gordon... 
He walks out the door, the misery he is in washing his brow. 
GEKKO (to Natalie) ...be another minute, Natalie. 
As he crosses back to the coffee table and punches up a phone number. 
GEKKO This is Gordon Gekko. Now... (a beat, with controlled rage) I want zip-locked mouths on Bluestar, or I'm gonna personally come down there and rip out your fucking throats! 
EXT. GEKKO OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 
Bud walks out, heading up the street, absent amid the scurrying mid-day hordes tearing up the street for the loot inside. 
EXT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY 
Darien approaches, carrying groceries, enters the building. 
INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY 
Bud is slumped on the couch, a spent bottle of tequila in front of him. Outside the twilight is quickening into night, shadows, scurrying across the unlit room.... for the first time we see him sucking on a cigarette. 
Darien opens the door and freezes, surveying the living room. A broken vase on the carpet, a curtain ripped off a window, a painting upended, a chair overturned, selected but not frenzied damage... 
DARIEN Bud?...What's going on? 
She puts down the grocery bags, frightened. 
BUD I've been played like a grand- piano--by the master, Gekko the Great...and today was the big crash. Liquidation sale. He's gonna carve Bluestar into little pieces and sell it all off... 
Darien registering this, is picking up pieces of the broken vase. 
DARIEN I'm sorry. I was afraid something like this could happen. 
BUD Talk about being bent over the sink of life and being dry humped. I handed it to him on a silver platter. I told my father and those people... 
DARIEN Buddy, it's not your fault, and it's not your decision. 
BUD (evenly) I'm not gonna let it happen Darien. 
She stops, lights a cigarette, growing concern. 
DARIEN Don't cross Gordon. He'll crush you. You've worked hard to get where you are. If Gordon doesn't buy Bluestar someone else will; and who's to say they won't do the same thing. 
BUD At least I wouldn't be pulling the trigger. 
She sighs...comes over, tries to shake some sense into him! 
DARIEN Are you mad! Why are you doing this! We're so close, the town is going to be ours. Don't throw away your future Bud! 
BUD I can stay with the brokerage firm. And you're doing fine. We can survive without Gordon Gekko. 
DARIEN (pointed) I'm not looking to just survive. I've been doing that all my life. 
BUD (getting the drift) What the hell's that supposed to mean? 
Darien moves out from his approximate circle, wrestling with what she wants to say...until she turns and says it. 
DARIEN That if you make an enemy of Gordon Gekko, I won't be there to stand by you. 
Bud is stunned...and hurt. 
BUD You really mean that? (lashing out) What'd he promise you? To take you public? I guess without Gordon's money and seal of approval, I'm not such a hot investment anymore. You're just the best money can buy, Darien... 
DARIEN You're not exactly pure Bud, you went after Gekko with the same vengeance you went after me. Look in the mirror before... 
BUD (glaring at her) I'm looking...and I sure don't like what I see. 
She collects her things and walks to the door. 
DARIEN Fair enough...but it's not that simple, Bud. When I was down and had nothing, it was Gordon who helped me. He got me all my clients -- you among them... (snaps her fingers) and he can take it away like that. (a beat) You may find out one day -- that when you've had money and lost it, it's worse than never having had it at all. 
Bud steps across to her in a rage. 
INT. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL OFFICES - DAY 
The REPORTER, who Bud anonymously called on the earlier Anacott Steel buy, hangs up. He rises from his desk and crosses the busy news floor, over to his EDITOR. 
WSJ REPORTER Bluestar's in play. 
INT. NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY 
A RUNNER dashes up to the BLUESTAR AIRLINES post, where a heated crowd is gathered, amidst heavy trading. He elbows his way over to a TRADER, handing him the ticket. The TRADER holds up the buy order, screaming, making frantic hand signals, in search of a seller. Faces in the crowd look up at the broad tape. 
CAMERA TILTS TO: 
BLUESTAR (BST), the stock quote flashing across the BROAD TAPE--upticking to 20 1/4. 
INT. BROKERAGE OFFICE - DAY 
Marv, on the phone pitching, eyes glued to the office TAPE-- as BST jumps to 21 1/4. 
MARV I love it...I do love it so! 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
The quotron now climbs to 22 1/8! 
BUD (into phone) Yeah. I see it at 22 1/8 and I don't know what to make of it. 
INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY 
He paces on the other end of the phone, real anger showing; now Alex and Susan seen in b.g. 
GEKKO The word's out. Your union buddies are talking. Get me in at a 45 degree angle and I mean all the way in! Slash and burn, buy everything you can get up to 22. Then call me. When I get the sonofabitch who leaked this I'm gonna kill him! I'm gonna tear his eyeballs out, I'm gonna suck his skull!! 
As he glances at his quotron the stock ticks up another 1/8th. 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
All the BROKERS have jumped into the action, avidly watching Bluestar's stock climb on the BROAD TAPE. Bud sweeps into the room and looks up at the board as the stock hits 22 7/8. 
MARV The stock's going to Pluto! 
BUD Start unloading. 
MARV Sell? 
BUD Now! Tell everyone to dump! 
Marv nods, and rushes away. Bud crosses past Mannheim's office. 
BUD Get out of Bluestar! 
In background Marv is spreading the word, brokers frantically grabbing phones, calling clients to sell. 
INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY 
Gekko looks up from his quotron and shouts to his troops on the phones. 
GEKKO Who the hell's out there? What are the arbs saying? It's gotta be a big hitter. 
ALEX They don't know what's going on! 
SUSAN Everybody and his mother is buying! 
Natalie enters the room, flustered. 
NATALIE Mr. Gekko, there's a whole bach of people from Bluestar Airlines outside demanding to see you. 
GEKKO What the hell do they want? 
WILMORE (O.S.) I'd be happy to tell you. 
As Duncan, Toni Carpenter, Dominick Amato, Charley Dent and SEVERAL other assorted UNION MEMBERS march into the room. Gekko is taken by surprise, but stays calm. 
WILMORE We know what you're up to, Gekko, and let me tell you this from here, (hits his heart) you suck eggs, mister, over my dead body you ain't gonna break up Bluestar. 
GEKKO You guys must know something nobody else knows. If those are my plans, it's the first I've heard of it. 
NEWSCASTER The big Wall Street story tonight is the  roller coaster ride of Bluestar Airlines. Fueled by takeover rumors, the stock soared to an all-time high of 24 1/8. Then when contradictory rumors later surfaced that the takeover was unfounded, buyers went running for cover, and the stock plummeted on gigantic volume to as low as 16 1/2 before closing at 17. 
Camera discovers Gekko sitting, grimly watching the report. Rudy seen riding his toy car in background. 
NEWSCASTER ...but then tonight, amidst all the scuttlebutt, another rumble shook (a beat) According to many sources, raider Sir Lawrence Wildman has stepped in and bought a substantial block of Bluestar and is going to announce a deal tomorrow at 18 that includes the support of the unions. 
Camera now tracks in close on Gekko as he absorbs the unexpected blow. O.S. Rudy yelling and squealing. Gekko leans back, putting the pieces together, his eyes narrowing into burning slits. He smashes the glass cocktail table with a massive paperweight as Kate hears it, shocked. 
EXT. WALL STREET - MORNING 
People rushing to work. Bud crosses the street, his face buried in The Financial Times. Insert: "SIR LAWRENCE WILDMAN MOUNTS BLUESTAR BUY WITH UNION SUPPORT". 
Satisfied, Bud folds the paper and heads into his office building. 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
He walks past Carolyn the receptionist who is strangely mute... 
BUD Smile, Carolyn, there's justice in the world... 
INT. MAIN OFFICE - DAY 
He passes the CHINESE STOCKLADY. She sees him and manages to look away. Marvin exchanges a look with him but can't bring himself to talk. Bud wonders...the whole office seems silent, the other BROKERS stealing glances. 
...as he passes Lou Mannheim with Charlie Cushing, who ignores Bud... 
BUD How's it going Mr. Mannheim? Got out of Bluestar in time I hope? 
Mannheim stops, winds up. Bud impatient but polite. 
MANNHEIM (with gruff affection) Bud I like you, just remember something. Man looks in the abyss, there's nothing staring back at him. At that time a man finds his character--and that is what keeps him out of the abyss... (a beat, looks deeply) 
BUD I think I understand what you mean Mr. Mannheim. 
But not really. As, on this increasingly strange morning, he moves on past Janet who wants to tell his something but he cuts her off. 
BUD Get my father will you Janet? 
INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY 
As Bud walks in, the camera glides to reveal the young SEC INVESTIGATOR, who has been tracking Buddy, going through his files. A SECOND MAN, PATTERSON, is standing behind the desk using the phone as a bored-looking 3RD MAN and POLICEMAN stand off to the side with Hieronymus Lynch, who gives Bud a withering glance. 
PATTERSON (into phone) He just came in. I'll talk to you later. 
On Bud--a struck-dumb look passing to resignation, as if for a long time now, he has been expecting this. 
BUD I guess you're not here to open an IRA. 
PATTERSON Mr Fox, I'm Henry Patterson from the Postal Inspection Service... this is Evan Morrissey with The Securities and Exchange Investigation Office. (presents his ID and indicates MAN 3) ... Mr. Ebanhopper from the US Attorney's Office. 
MORRISSEY Mr. Fox, you're under arrest for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for violating the Insider Trader's Sanction Act. 
The handcuffs come out. 
EXT. SHEEPSMEADOW - CENTRAL PARK - TWILIGHT 
Long shot. Activity is winding down, a few sunbathers collecting their blankets. A solitary figure stands on a hill silhouetted by the sunset. A second figure appears on a footpath and starts climbing the hill towards the other man. 
Gekko waits, expressionless... Bud approaches him. They stand facing each other. 
GEKKO Hello Bud. 
BUD Gordon. 
GEKKO You sandbagged me on Bluestar. (smiles) I guess you think you taught the teacher a lesson, that you can make the tail wag the dog, huh? 
Bud looks away. Gekko's smile fades. 
GEKKO (CONT'D) Well let me cue you in: the ice is melting under your feet sport... 
Without warning, he grabs Buddy roughly by the lapels and lets out his inner rage with a series of smacks and slaps across his face. 
GEKKO (CONT'D) You think you could've gotten this far this fast with anybody else? You think you could be out there dicking somebody like Darien? No, you'd be cold calling dentists and widows to buy twenty shares of some dog stock! I took you in! A nobody! I opened doors for you!...I showed you how the system works!... 
Gekko slapping him harder and harder, Buddy staggering with the blows, saying nothing, not defending himself. 
