WANTED 
Written by 
Michael Brandt & Derek Haas 
FADE IN: CLOSE ON the face of WESLEY GIBSON, 25, STARING AT THE. 
CAMERA. 
WESLEY (V.O.) Six weeks ago, I was ordinary and pathetic. His wry smile gives way to... Black. And then... 
INT. APPLEBY'S - DAY 
The CAMERA STARTS FROM THE CEILING, pointing straight down, overlooking a table of twenty-five people dressed in business casual, pretending to have a good time at lunch in. this cookie-cutter crappy restaurant. At the end of the table, a bowl of spinach dip is in. front of Wesley,'and the CAMERA STARTS descending directly for it, slowly, as we hear... 
WESLEY (V.O.) It was Rochelle's birthday, which meant there was a certain amount of inter- office pressure to go to Appleby's and sit at a table of twenty-five with my boss Janice presiding at the head even though she's too tight to pick up the bill. Which meant, the poor bastard waiting on us had to split the check twenty-four ways -- everyone contributing to Rochelle's free meal -- surf and turf, no less -- don't do us any favors, Rochelle. Anyway, I ate a plate of extreme nachos and then polished off a bowlful of spinach dip pretty much single- handedly... The CAMERA DISAPPEARS in the bowl of spinach dip and we... 
CUT TO: 
INT. WESLEY'S CUBICLE - DAY 
.where Wesley drops his head down on his desk. 
WESLEY .so by the time I got back to my cubicle, my eyelids were so damn heavy, I had to put my head down, even if it was just for a wink. 
SMASH CUT TO: 
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 
A sharply dressed man, MR. X, wearing a dark .Armani suit, enters a skyscraper through the lobby. He's a shade taller than most of the office workers who are coming and going. 
INT. LOBBY - DAY 
He heads to an elevator and presses a button for the top floor. And as his finger presses the button, just where the thumb meets the forefinger, we see a TATTOO of a three- headed dog. Soon... 
INT. TOP FLOOR CORRIDOR - DAY 
.the doors open again and he finds himself in an opulent corridor -- sleek and expensively designed. Only one office is at the end of the hall. Expressionless, he makes his way toward it. Without knocking, he steps inside... 
INT. PUJA'S OFFICE - DAY 
.an office fit for a king. Or a queen. Because behind a glass desk sits a beautiful Indian woman dressed traditionally in a serape, with a red bindi on her forehead, the holy third eye. Her name is PUJA. Mr. X sits in the single chair opposite her. After a moment, Puja looks up. 
PUJA I didn't expect for you yourself to come. One of the heads, in the flesh. 
MR. X You're an important fence. 
PUJA I'm flattered. She reaches over to an attach€ case and removes a file. 
PUJA (CONT'D) The name of the target is Henry Helms. Carrying the file, she moves around the desk and stands a few feet away from Mr. X, who rises so that they are both standing. She really is quite beautiful, exotic even,. with piercing eyes. 
Wesley presses the down button and waits. 
WESLEY C'mon, c'mon. After an eternity, the doors open. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) But at least at the end. of the day... Wesley steps in and turns around. Before the doors close, he sees his boss Janice down the hall, looking at him. She checks her watch and looks back at him, pissed... 
WESLEY (CONT'D) 
(DEFEATED) .you know that tomorrow it's going to start all over again. ..and then the doors close. 
EXT.. CITY STREET - DAY 
Wesley pedals a ten-speed down a busy street. It's raining, and he squints to keep the water out of his eyes. 
EXT. ATM MACHINE - DAY 
He stands nervously at an ATM machine. He checks to see if anyone is looking, and then hits the "check balance" button. A message comes up: "You have $47.92 in your account. Would you like another transaction?" He clicks "yes" and then "quick cash" and waits for the $40 to dispense. 
IN . WESLEY'S APARTMENT - DUSK Wesley enters, toting his bike, only to find Cathy and Barry laughing on the couch, watching some crap on television. He's two steps in the door when... 
CATHY Where's the spaghetti? 
WESLEY What? 
CATHY I specifically told you to get noodles on your way home. God, Wesley, I already put the sauce on. 
WESLEY Sorry. I•didn't... 
CATHY You didn't listen is what you didn't.- I might as well talk to the wall. 
WESLEY I'll be right back. He turns around. 
INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE WESLEY'S APARTMENT - DUSK 
He starts to head away when Barry pokes his head out of the apartment door. 
BARRY 
(INSINCERELY) You want me to go with you, buddy? What a dick. Wesley doesn't turn around, defeated... 
WESLEY I got it. 
EXT. CITY STREET - DUSK 
He's back on the ten-speed, pedaling again in the rain,.a pissed expression on his face. 
WESLEY (V.O.) My parents both died when I was born. He grits his teeth as we... 
CUT TO: 
INT. FOSTER HOME - DAY 
FOX ,Your father died two days ago on the rooftop. of the Metropolitan Building. For a moment, just a moment, Wesley is stunned, but Fox just keeps sizing him up. 
FOX (CONT'D) He'd be damn disappointed in what you've become, too. Wesley holds up his hands in a defensive gesture... 
WESLEY Lady... 
FOX I've been called a lot of things, but "lady" ain't one of 'em. Wesley starts to talk but Fox interrupts him... 
FOX (CONT'D) Damn, Wesley, how d'you ever learn anything when you won't keep your mouth shut and your ears open? I'm trying to tell you about your father. Wesley starts to open his mouth again, but then closes it. He waits. 
FOX (CONT'D) Your father, Wesley, wits the great„ sit assassin to ever live. Your father, Wesley, worked for the Fraternity. 
is. 
WESLEY The Fraternity? 
FOX (keeps right on going) Your father, Wesley, was set up and gunned down by a man he used to consider a friend. And your father, Wesley... Suddenly, s raises her hands and-LS fist' two blgck 
PISTOLS. 
FOX (CONT'D) .taught me everything I know. Wesley takes a step back. 
WESLEY 
(SLOWLY) What is this? 
FOX This is what you've dreamt about all your life. Just then, Cross o s the corner to t e' e also fisting a Da'r of alms. Wesley's eyes go wide as Fox suddenly starts firing, BAM! BAMI BAMZ BAMI BAM: forcing Cross to take cover on the far side of the aisle. 
FOX (CONT'D) Move! Now! She screams this, grabbing Wesley's wrist and jerking him forward, just as Cross comes back up, firing, a killing machine. They barely get out of the way, as the pasta aisle explodes in an avalanche of bullets! Glass bottles of spaghetti sauce shatter, turning the aisle into a rainstorm of red droplets -- we're not sure what is sauce and what is blood. Then... Cross springs on to a display stand of tortillas and up to the top of the freezer section, so he can have a better angle of attack at the fleeing Fox and Wesley. He starts sprinting down the top of the freezer section, smashing over styrofoam coolers, as his bullets barely miss Fox and Wesley, but slam into the freezers behind them, sending ice and glass exploding everywhere. 
But Wesley and Fox are too quick.. She still has a.hold of Wesley's wrist and she propels him through the swinging doors of the stock room. 
-EXT. OUTSIDE THE GROCERY STORE - DAY 
There is a cherry red FERRARI convertible parked right next to the store. Wesley is still trying to figure out what the hell is going on as Fox tosses him the ke ! 
FOX Drive! 
WESLEY What?!! But Fox just leaps into the passenger seat, guns up and ready, as Wesley's legs. somehow take over and he hops behind the wheel. Just then, Cross's ev ll Mound the corner, practically going up on two tires. Wham! Wesley turns the ignition, pope the clutch, and smashes the gas pedal as the car nearly snaps his neck when it launches forward. He races through the gears and rips around a corner and out into traffic. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Where are we going? 
FOX Just drive! The Chevelle stays on his tail behind them; Cross drives and fires his Glock at the same time. Bam! Bam! Sam! Fox does her best to send bullets back his way, while Wesley mans the wheel, breathing hard, still stunned at what is happening. He spots a side-street... 
WESLEY Hold on! ...whips the car into a rubber-squealing turn... 
EXT. ONE WAY STREET - DAY 
...and ends up going the wrong way down a narrow one-way street! He now has to weave in and out of cars headed right for them, as Cross stays tight on their ass. Horns are BLARING in his face, but Wesley somehow keeps the. Ferrari on all four tires as he bobs in'and out of the paths of oncoming cars. A 4 X 4 Chevy Pickup is headed like a missile right at them... Wesley's eyes go wide. 
WESLEY Truck! 
THE BUTCHER We all end up where we belong, don't we? The Butcher snickers. Sloan speaks up... 
SLOAN Fox told you about your father? Wesley looks from Sloan to Fox to the Butcher and back to Sloan. 
WESLEY 
(STAMMERS) Like I told... um... the lady here... I think you might ha ve me mixed up with someone else. I'm just an... um... account serv... uh..that is... account manager... and... my father died... He hesitates. 
SLOAN When? They look at him, imploringly, waiting for an answer. 
WESLEY I... I guess I'm not sure. Sloan simply picks up one of the pistols and sticks the gun in Wesley's hand. 
SLOAN Shoot the wings off the flies. 
WESLEY What?! 
SLOAN 
(GROWLS) Shoot... the wings... off the flies. For. the first time, Wesley notices flies buzzing all around. 
WESLEY I don't... In the blink of an eye, Sloan has plucked the second gun off the rolling table and ',s -pointing it at Weslev's temple. He begins to count... 
SLOAN You have three seconds. Three... two... Before he can say one, Wesley reacts... blindly firing the pistol in his hand, indiscriminately, B,AM! BAM! BAM! BAM! CLICK...CLICK...CLICK... until his finger is just jamming on the trigger over and over. After a moment, he looks up, unsure why he isn't dead. 
Sloan smiles, drops his pistol on the rolling table and picks up the magnifying glass. He stoops down and signals Wesley to do the same. 
THROUGH THE MAGNIFYING GLASS: Four flies lie on - the floor. crawling o d... their wings actually separated from their bodies! 
IN THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE: Wesley jerks upright, trying to process this. 
FOX Like I said, you got the skills. 
SLOAN And after we fine tune those skills... His eyes lock on to Wesley's, holding them in a vice-like grip... 
SLOAN (CONT'D) .you're going to hunt the man who killed Your father. Wesley is as stunned as we've ever seen him... he blinks a couple of times. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) Walk with me. He drapes his arm around Wesley and leads him out the door. 
EXT. CITY BLOCK - DAY 
Sloan and Wesley move down a busy commercial street. 
SLOAN I know thin is hard for you to understand, Wesley, but I want you to concentrate on what I'm saying. Your father was a member of the Fraternity, a collection of the most powerful assassins the world has ever known. They weave against the flow of pedestrians out and about on the city streets. Instinctively, people step out of their way. 
WESLEY But I've never heard of... 
SLOAN We don't advertise Wesley. We blend into the environment like moths against a tree. 
CUT TO: 
INT. RESTAURANT - DAY 
CUT BACK TO: 
INT. PHARMACY - DAY 
Sloan and Wesley enter a normal looking pharmacy. They pass through the small front room and head directly to the back. 
SLOAN We have been active for centuries, Wesley... outlasting rulers, governments, nations, kings. We recognize no borders; the entire globe is our killing field. They are buzzed through by THE PHARMACIST, and enter... 
INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - DAY 
.a sophisticated back room, where a trio of flat screen monitors are mounted on the wall. 
SLOAN We are the baddest of the bad, the three- headed dog that guards the gates of hell. We show no mercy, we destroy the weak, we have absolute power. 
(BEAT) But recently, a fallen angel, one of our own, has challenged that power. The screens in the room come to life with the face of Cross. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) This man left the Fraternity and decided to strike down those who had befriended him, trained him, made him who he is. 
SLOAN (V.0.) ..a son whose mother died in childbirth... They reach the baby's bed and a pair of strong arms lift up the child. But the CAMERA FINDS the face of the second man... 
SLOAN (V.0.) (CONT'D) ..he took the boy to an orphanage so his true identity would never be discovered. .and now we see that the other man is a YOUNG MR. 
SLOAN. 
SLOAN (V.0.) (CONT'D) And I helped him. 
'INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - DAY 
Wesley is still absorbing the story, his life so different than when he got up in the morning. 
WESLEY Why would you do that? Sloan puts a hand on Wesley's shoulder, gently. Paternally. 
SLOAN Your father was like a brother to me. 
(BEAT) I will do anything to avenge his death.' Sloan turns off the monitors and pulls over a wooden chair from where it rests by a wall. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) So Wesley... you have a choice. Would you like to go back to your job, your girlfriend, your life, just as it was before? 
(BEAT) Or would you like to begin your training with an assassin's Fraternity that writes the world's history in blood and bullets? Wesley doesn't know what to say. Sloan moves to a back door . 
SLOAN (CONT'D) If the answer is the latter, then have a seat in that chair. 
(MORE) 
SLOAN (CONT'D) 
(BEAT) If not, you're welcome to head out this door here and we'll never see each other again. With that., Sloan leaves through that back door. But... 
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR: He stops. He pulls out a gun and waits for Wesley to make his decision, pointing his gun at the door. 
BACK IN THE ROOM: Wesley is still standing there, unaware of what is on the other side of the door, thinking, thinking, thinking. He takes a step toward the door... FLASH: His boss Janice, yelling at him, mocking him. Wesley hesitates, looks at the chair, then the door again... FLASH: His girlfriend on the couch, riding high on Barry, loving every minute of it. Wesley stands frozen, staring hard at the chair as THE CAMERA STARTS to swirl around him. FLASHES: The consultant haranguing, the other employees laughing, eating.alone in the break room, riding his bike, all the aspects of his shitty life... .. as the CAMERA CONTINUES to swirl around him, his face going hard... 
(SHEEPISH) I... uh...I got hit by a man much bigger than me. Nicole smiles, flirtatiously. 
NICOLE Was this over a girl? 
WESLEY Something like that. 
NICOLE I had no idea you had such a secret life outside of here. She cocks her head and studies him. 
NICOLE (CONT'D) Is there something different about you? Besides the... face? 
WESLEY No. Not really. Same old Wesley. 
NICOLE I don't think so. She puts her hand on top of his; he can only stare at it... this kind of thing just doesn't happen to him. 
NICOLE (CONT'D) You aren't like these people Wesley. I've always thought you were different. 
WESLEY Would you consider me to be an observant person? 
NICOLE What's that mean? Wesley's about to say something, when he spots Janice heading their way. Wesley nods at her and Nicole frowns. 
NICOLE (CONT'D) Uh-oh, here comes the wicked bitch of the west... With that, she steps away, just as Janice walks up. Wesley stands to face his boss, as Janice launches into him... 
BOSS JANICE Jesus H. Fucking Popscile, you don't have time to get me the differential responses but you got time to chitty-chatty with the intern? Why do I even keep you around, Wesley? Well I know one thing, your review is coming up next week and I can't wait to start checking me off some boxes... attitude: poor, performance: poor, management skills: poor, works well with others... Wesley just focuses on that mouth. Fat lips over fat gums over yellow teeth. But now all that's coming out of it is JIBBERISH. ' I Jibberish that goes straight from her larynx to Wesley's ears where it imbeds in the soft flesh of his brain and BURNS... It's so goddamn loudl if only... ...if only it would just... 
WESLEY 
(ROARS) 
SHUT THE FUCK UP11!!1111 It's so unbelievably stunning coming out of Wesley's mouth that it hits Janice like a slap in the face. Heads all over the office start to poke out of the tops of their cubicles like gophers coming out of holes. Nicole watches, pleasantly stunned, from a few feet away. Janice looks around, shocked. Wesley likes the way that felt, so... 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Just because you have one single iota of tenuous power, you think you can push everyone around? 
(MORE) 
WESLEY (CONT'D) .I understand, Janice, that junior high must have been particularly difficult being called Tubby all the time, but that doesn't give you the goddamn right to treat your workers like horseshit. Sure we laugh at you behind your back and sure we know you keep a stash of jelly doughnuts in the top drawer of your desk... Janice looks down at her fingers, which still have a little grape jelly on them... 
WESLEY (CONT'D) .and sure everyone takes their lunch an hour before you so we can get an extra hour away from you, and I know that must sting sitting by yourself in the White Castle parking lot every day gnawing on your third burger thinking up ways to humiliate us... Janice's eyes fall to her feet. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) .you know, if you weren't such a bitch, we might actually feel sorry for you. As it is, I feel I can speak for the rest of the office when I say... FUCK YOU!!! With that, he throws all the papers off his desk, sending them flying! Empowered, Wesley marches toward the elevators as everyone watches him go, admiration plastered on their faces. The loudmouth from the break-room steps out... 
LOUDMOUTH That was great dude! He holds up his hand for a high-five, but Wesley just WALLOPS him with a right cross, not breaking stride on his way to the elevators. 
EXT. OUTSIDE WESLEY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Wesley flies out the front door, just as Fox's Diablo swings around the corner. 
FOX What's up, new man? 
WESLEY You were watching? 
FOX Never stopped. How'd it feel, saying exactly what you wanted to say? 
C WESLEY (CONT'D) What was my father like? For a moment, she thinks about it. Then... 
FOX Come on. 
EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 
They walk down a downtown lane, buildings crowding in on them from all-sides. Not too many people are out this late; they have the sidewalk to themselves. 
FOX Your father lov ed you, Wesley. He talked about you all the time. 
WESLEY Really? Wesley looks at her hopefully. She smiles, thinking about the past. 
FOX That's a fact. He knew he wasn't supposed to, but he couldn't help it. 
WESLEY You worked with him? 
FOX 
(NODS) He trained me. Made me what I am. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT - FLASHBACK 
A younger, greener Fox stands alone in the alley, eyes scanning the rooftops. 
FOX (V.0.) I remember one night he had me on my own .for the first time, and I was tagging this target named Buster Burgess. But I was green and clumsy and stupid. Buster marked me and disappeared into this old tenement building. 
(-. EXT. TENEMENT ROOFTOP - SAME - FLASHBACK 
A shadowy figure creeps to the edge of the building and looks down. We can't quite make out his face. Fox is looking the other way and he's got a clean shot. He raises a rifle to his eye... 
BAM! He nails Fox in the thigh, and she falls helpless to the pavement. 
FOX (V.0.) Motherfucker shot mein the leg. Put a damn hole in my favorite skirt. The figure re-aims, ready to take out the helpless Fox. 
FOX (V.0.) (CONT'D) Then you know what happened? 
WESLEY (V.0.) My father saved your life? Put a bullet in Burgess? k, 
FOX (V.0.) Naww. I ended up with four more slugs in me. The figure unleashes four more shots. 
BACK TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 
They turn a corner and head up into the lobby of a tall building, their conversation continuing... 
WESLEY What kind of training is that? 
FOX I'm here, aren't I? 
FOX We cremate our dead. I'd like to say it's to honor them, but it's mainly to keep anyone from identifying them after they're gone. 
WESLEY These are my father's ashes? 
FOX Yeah. 
WESLEY Sloan said his heart stopped but there was no entry wound? 
FOX That's right. 
WESLEY Can I have a minute? 
FOX Sure. She leaves and Wesley approaches the urn holding his father's'remains. He runs his finger over it, and just when we think he's going to have an emotional moment...' ..he smashes the urn on to the stand, the ashes spilling out everywhere. Wesley runs his fingers through the decay: what a mess... there are pieces of bone intermingled in the cremains. But then hisfingegs find something in the dust... a BULLET with a hole running down its center. He holds it up to the light for a closer look. As he studies it, we start to hear... WHAM! WHAMI... 
INT. SMALL ROOM - DAY 
WHAM! WHAM! WHAM! Wesley site with his hands tied behind his back, taking another beating from The Pharmacist, who spouts assassination techniques while he pummels Wesley. 
THE PHARMACIST If you get in the hoo-ha of a two on one and find yourself the one, remember that each foe will likely move at the same steady speed away from each other, allowing you to keep a gun on each. 
WHAM! WHAM! 
THE PHARMACIST (CONT'D) Now, if you find yourself one ' on three, that poses a real bit a' ball ache... 
The sound of the Pharmacist's voice fades to the background as Wesley's voice-over comes up... 
WESLEY (V.0.) There are two kinds of pain. One is an object. A living thing that crawls around the outside of your body. Cuts, broken bones, bruises... all deliver the kind of pain you can learn to ignore, and they soon disappear to nothing but the sound of a gnat in your ear. Wesley's eyes are starting to lose consciousness. 
WESLEY (V.0.) (CONT'D) I've lived with a different kind of pain all my life... the kind that comes from two decades of being passed over, pushed around, ignored. But you can't hide from that kind of pain either... Wesley takes a brutal shot to the face. 
WESLEY (V.0.) (CONT'D) .because it finds you. He involuntarily spite blood as his eyes roll back in his head. 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 
Sloan sits across from Wesley at a skinny table in an otherwise bare room. 
SLOAN Watch the eyes. Look for a slight swelling of the pupil. You can train your body to stay a constant temperature, you can control your heartbeat, but you can't control the center of your eyes. That's how you know when someone is lying to you. Sloan looks right at him. Wesley narrows his eyes, trying to fend off his stare. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) Do you want to fuck Fox? 
WESLEY No. 
SLOAN I know that's a lie without even seeing your eyes. 
WESLEY Fine. Try something else. 
SLOAN Okay. What are you hiding from me? Wesley looks down, then focuses on Sloan. 
WESLEY Nothing. Sloan waits. Wesley realizes it's useless to try to keep something from this man. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out the bullet with the hole in its center... places it on the table. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) You told me to hunt down my father's killer. That's what I'm doing. 
(WHAM!) FIVE!! (WHAM!!) ..he pulls his arms tight, and his muscles start to twitch and bulge -- muscles we didn't know he had until. now -- and as he continues to take punches, WHAM!, WHAM!, WHAM!!, the rope strains against the wooden chair, and we can HEAR the wooden legs start to pop, until... CRACK!!! Wesley Jerks his arms ee and comes swillcrincr with the broken of leg of the chair. SMASH! SMASH!! The Pharmacist goes down hard and Wesley stands over him, out of control,. furious, SMASH! SMASH!, beating him with that broken chair leg. The CAMERA PUSHES THOUGH one of the walls... 
OBSERVATION ROOM: .. to where Fox and Sloan are watching Wesley pummel the pummeler through a one-way mirror. 
SLOAN He's ready. the los2k on Fox's face becomes more and more and sexual until... 
INT. FOX'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 
..she leans on top of Wesley, straddling him on too of her bed. They unleash on each other, and from the looks of it, Fox makes Cathy seem like a nun. 
FOX Don't you quit now, baby! Don't you quit now!! Wesley didn't know it could be like this. After they finish, Fox gets up and heads to the shower and he watches her go the whole way. In the doorway, she turns around... 
FOX (CONT'D) Sloan says you're ready. 
INT. TATTOO ROOM - DAY 
Wesley site in a chair as Fox crouches next to him with an advanced tattoo machine, inking his hand. 
WESLEY Do you like being the only chick in the Fraternity? 
FOX 
(COYLY) Who said I was the only sister? Maybe you just haven't met any others yet. Wesley laughs. 
WESLEY (playfully back) Maybe I have and I'm just not telling you. 
FOX 
(GRINNING) Hold still. He settles down. 
WESLEY How did you end up here, Fox? 
FOX Same way you did, sugar. They found me. 
WESLEY What did you do before? Fox looks at him, a wry smile on her face. 
FOX Sold perfume. At the mall. 
WESLEY No shit? 
FOX No shit. 
WESLEY I can't see it. 
FOX Get in line. 
WESLEY What made them come after you? I mean, I know why I'm here. 
FOX Fraternity members all have something in their lineage that shows they'll be good at this. 
WESLEY And yours is? 
BARRY Wesley... hey dude. Wesley can't believe itl 
BARRY (CONT'D) Thanks for calling me. I wanted to say... Wesley pulls out his gun and Barry throws up his hands... 
BARRY (CONT'D) Whoa, man!! But now we see Wesley is looking past B_arry. over his shoulder... 
WESLEY Get down! .and he's looking at a man we recognize from his office... The Consultant. He's approaching rapidly behind Barry, fisting a 'pair of pistols! Just as Barry hits the deck, Wesley pulls the trigger... .but it lust CLICKS, the chamber empty... 
SMASH CUT TO: 
THE PORSCHE: Fox holds the clip to Wesley's Imanishi, tapping it in her hand. Holy shit, she gave him an empty gun... 
SMASH BACK TO: 
THE OUTDOOR MALL: Wesley can't believe his gun is empty. In the split- second that it takes him to realize this, the Consultant has his guns leveled, taking aim, but... 
...Wesley moves faster than we thought he could move... he darts behind a kiosk hocking monogrammed apparel, and dashes full speed through the crowds lining the street. The Consultant chases after him, knocking shoppers out of the way, sending fanny packs and Nordstrom bags flying. Wesley hooks a right around a SHARPER IMAGE and heads straight down a narrower section, like he's on a mission, knowing exactly where he's going. And now we see why... Because the city around us goes stark white like the Mg Room. We're seeing what Wesley sees, what he's memorized in all those hours staring at the model. Finally we see one SMALL BENCH next to a fountain, which is bright red. Immediately the natural color of the city c2 Ws back and Wesley is running all out for that bench. He goes into a slide, hitting the grass .underneath the bench, sliding under it, popping up on the other side. He rips a metal panel off the back of it as he does, revealing an AUTOMATIC PISTOL... .and just as quickly, he's up on one knee, aiming, using the bench as a shield as the Consultant rushes up, surprised and BAM! BAM! BAM: The Consultant drops where he is, three bullets hitting him in his two shoulders and his chest. People start SCREAMING and RUNNING the hell away from the gunplay. Wesley is about to run away himself, but when he turns, Fox is right there beside him... smiling. A couple of SECURITY GUARDS are with her, smiling as well. Wesley looks over at The Consultant, who site up, smiling too, even though he's bleeding from three spots on his body... 
FOX Pin shot bullets. Wesley looks down at the gun. 
WESLEY Just like my father used on you. Fox nods, as the Security Guards go to help the Consultant to his feet. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) You were watching me in the office. 
FOX 
(NODS) Protecting our assets. She hands the clip from the Imanishi over to Wesley... 
FOX (CONT'D) Time to do this for real. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LONG CORRIDOR 
Wesley and Fox walk down a long hallway toward a single doorway. They open it, revealing... 
INT. SLOAN'S OFFICE - DAY 
. a large office with a single desk and a roaring fire. Sloan turns from the fire to greet them. He holds up the "mole" bullet, and smiles. 
SLOAN The mole bullet is made by a midget t Filipino named Pek War. His fingers are so small that they can shape and smooth the metal better than anyone. 
WESLEY You've known all along. You knew before I ever broke the urn... 
SLOAN I had to let you figure it out for yourself. 
WESLEY Part of my training. 
SLOAN Part of your quest. To get to know your father. 
(BEAT) And his killer. Wesley nods, a grave expression on his face, like he knows what he is going to do next. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) So my question is... how do I find Cross? Pek War's eyes go wide, pleading... 
PEK WAR 
(DEFENSIVE) My clients use middlemen, I don't meet them in person, I know so little about them... Wesley twitches the handle just a bit. 
PEK WAR (CONT'D) Okayl Okayl Dammitl God damiaitl I'll tell you! 
Wesley lets up a little bit. 
PEK WAR (CONT'D) Prearranged meets. Fox snatches up a nearby phone. 
WESLEY. Start prearranging. 
EXT. CITY STREET -NIGHT 
The Porsche once again tears across the asphalt, as Wesley drives. 
FOX Wesley, you gotta know something. No matter what kind of training you've done these last few weeks, killing your first, well that's gonna change you forever. Wesley drives for a while. Then... 
WESLEY You know what my foster mother. told me when I was six years old? Fox shakes her head. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) She caught me eating some jello out of the fridge after my bedtime. I knew I wasn't supposed to but I was so damn hungry, and it was just some fucking jello. Anyway, after she hit me so hard I couldn't bite down straight for a week, she told me... she told me that God had killed my parents because I was such a wicked boy. 
FOX Jesus. Someone needs to find that bitch and set her straight. 
WESLEY So I grew up thinking I was the reason I never knew my parents. But now, to find out, that no, my father didn't give me up because he had died... he gave me up because he was Protecting me... well I guess I want to give him something back. 
FOX Here we are. 
EXT. WAREHOUSE DISTRICT - NIGHT 
They are surrounded by industrial looking warehouses, one of which has the words Times-Herald on it. Newspaper delivery TRUCKS make their way in and out of the loading dock area of this building. Overhead, an EL TRAIN scrapes along the worn tracks. Fox pulls around a corner and back into an alley, so they can have a view of the corner in front of them. Wesley scans the area quickly. 
WESLEY Not very discreet, are they? Fox smiles knowingly, and looks up, revealing what Wesley is talking about. On various rooftops we-see FIGURES peering down. looking over the site. 
FOX The others are only backup singers. This is your show. Fox subtly moves her head and figures disappear, crouching down. Just then, out the windshield, they see a MAN wearing a long black overcoat approaching the corner near the newspaper building. Fox's eyes start to dance. 
FOX (CONT'D) Remember: he's good, baby. But you're the best I've ever seen. Wesley nods and the two of them step out of the car. 
IN THE STREET: From a distance, Wesley approaches Cross from the back. His steps become quicker, getting closer every passing second. Wesley starts to reach in his coat for his gun... .and that's when Cross firesl Quick as lightning, Cross has guns out and lets loose toward the roof of a nearby warehouse. 
His bullet has the instincts of a bird dog, and it curves over the edge of the building and finds its mark, causing a crouching ASSASSIN to plunge from the roof to the street near Wesley! The others on the rooftops hail down bullets as Cross disappears into the nearest building, the Times-Herald. Wesley and Fox run toward the building as three other Fraternity members beat them there, the BELLMAN, the WAITER, and the ELECTRICIAN. Wesley sees them congregate on the loading dock and then start inside the building... 
WESLEY No! The minute Bellman exposes himself in the open loading dock door he is cut down from inside, his bloody body falling backwards into a newspaper truck parked at the dock. Wesley and Fox join the other two on the dock as screaming WORKERS run from the place. 
WAITER We need a way in there. 
ELECTRICIAN Let's find another door. 
WESLEY He'll be long gone by then. 
CROSS (CONT'D) Look into my eyes! Wesley's finger is starting to squeeze his trigger... as is Cross's. 
CROSS (CONT'D) (growls, in pain) Look into my eyes, goddammit! 
Finally, Wesley does and his face goes slack as he sees himself reflected in Cross's Dupils. Just then, Fox pulls up in the Porsche about fifty yards away, and her headlights illuminate them. Cross shifts his eyes to her, then does a curious thing: he lowers his gun, then drops it to the ground. Wesley can't believe Cross would leave himself defenseless. Moving swiftly, Cross men tucks something into the Rocket of Wesley's hooded sweatshirt. 
CROSS (CONT'D) 
(WHISPERS) Everything they told you was a lie, Wesley. With that... Cross falls down. His black jacket spills open to show a gun shot wound not just to his shoulder, but to hig n too. one of Wesley's bullets through the train must have found its mark. Cross is bleeding profusely. He gasps a couple of times... then, with his last bit of energy... 
CROSS (CONT'D) Find the missing piece. And... don't... let them... dispose of the weapon... With that, the life goes out of Cross's eyes. Wesley stares at that face, trying to decipher some meaning there. But Cross just stares blankly back at him, just as Fox comes limping up. 
FOX You did it, baby! Son of a bitch, you did it. You put down motherfucking Cross! Wesley looks down and sees some of Cross's blood on his hands from their clench. There is also some on the gun he is holding. ar --h d ed crun. Wesley reaches down and takes the other pearl-handled gun from where it dropped and looks over them both. 
FOX (CONT'D) What'd he say to you? Wesley looks up, sees some sort of anticipation in Fox's eyes. He looks back down at Cross's body.. 
WESLEY He said... he said 'pies on the Fraternity...' Fox measures him, like she's not sure if he's telling the whole story. Finally, she nods... 
FOX Well... damn, I couldn't be more proud of you, baby! Let's go lay this on Sloan! 
WESLEY Yeah, sure. 
FOX What's wrong? 
WESLEY I think I need.a minute to myself. 
FOX 
(UNDERSTANDING) Sure. It's your first kill. I'll wait for you... 
WESLEY Naah, that's all right. You need to get stitched up. I'll meet you at that Korean place. 
FOX You sure? But he's already walking off. She watches him go, thinking... 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 
Wesley walks down the street. PEOPLE instinctively get out of his way as he cuts a path down the sidewalk. Then he pulls out what Cross slipped inside his pocket: a beaten-up copy of COUNT OF ONTE CRISTO. In fact, there's no mistake, it's the same copy he had as a kid. Wesley tries to make sense of this as he opens up the cover... printed on the inside in a steady hand are the words: "I left you something." Wesley lowers the book and sees a cheesy guy park a Harley at a curb. He bee-lines for the guy. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - MORNING 
Wesley now blazes down the highway, pushing the Harley to its limits. His angry expression hasn't dissipated. 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - MORNING 
The Harley pulls up to a lower-middle-class house, the kind you might find in any run-down suburb. Kids run around the neighborhood, playing. 
ON THE BIKE: Wesley sits and looks at one particular house. He climbs off'and heads to the side of the house, still carrying his book. 
SIDE OF THE HOUSE: He ducks through a broken chain-link fence and moves down the side of the house... .until he finds a familiar wooden BOARD. Familiar because we've seen this place before: it's where he lived when he was a foster kid. He removes the board, then reaches into the hole. His hand seizes on something. From the hole, he withdraws a KEY attached to a note with an address on it: 1850 North Highbury St. Wesley's eyes move from the copy of MONTE CRISTO, to the key, and back to the book. Finally, he lowers his hands... revealing a little eight- year-old kid, watching him curiously from the back yard. 
CUT TO: 
A LONE KEYHOLE in a solid closet door. Wesley sticks the key in and swings the door open revealing a LONG BLACK COAT, just like his father's. 
ANNA I guess it's not much of an inheritance. 
WESLEY 
(STEELY) He left me more than this. Wesley takes the coat and folds it over his arm. 
ANNA I want you to know that he forgave you before you ever pulled the trigger. He tried to keep you out of it for so long... 
WESLEY Why didn't he just tell me? 
ANNA once they had you... he couldn't risk it unless you were alone. He knew his one shot at telling you might be his last. Her eyes harden a little bit. 
ANNA (CONT'D) You have to finish what he was doing, Wesley. It's the only way any of us will ever be free. Especially your brother. They won't stop hunting us... your father knew that. Wesley nods. 
WESLEY I'll be back as soon as this is over. 
ANNA You have family here. Wesley nods, these words meaning so much to him. 
INT. KOREAN BAR-B-QUE JOINT - NIGHT 
Fox eats in a small restaurant in the heart of Koreatown, the kind of place that has the hot hibachi grills on the S table tops. 
The place is mostly empty, quiet, with mainly Korean faces both dining and serving. It's the kind of place where you can eat and not be bothered. The doors swing open and Fox looks up. The silhouette of e I URE IN THE DOgJLWM is disturbing, a familiar person in a long black coat... 
FOX Jesus. She squints, the setting sunlight nearly blinding her as all she can see is a silhouette... 
FOX (CONT'D) For a second there I thought you looked just like Cross. Wesley steps into the light and moves over to the table as Fox lights up a cigarette. 
WESLEY Skipped the hospital? 
FOX He picked me clean and I don't care much for needles. She blows out a lungful of smoke and watches as it rises toward the ceiling. 
FOX (CONT'D) Sloan's on his way. One of the waiters waves to her to put out her smoke and she just stares him down. The man backs off, nodding and smiling. 
FOX (CONT'D) You want something to eat, baby? 
WESLEY I'm all right. 
FOX They got some good shit. Ostrich, chicken... won't fill you up too much if you're watching your calories. 
WESLEY Naah. 
FOX Well, the big man should be here any minute... 
WESLEY Yeah. 
(BEAT) Listen, can I ask you a :question? 
WESLEY (V.0.) 60 During his life, he was said to have killed over four hundred bears and was the pride of this small community on the Rhine. You want to know how he died? A pair of black bears singled out his house from the entire village, mauled his wife, killed his twin daughters, and then lied in wait for him to get back from the woods. 
INT. KOREAN BAR-B-QUE JOINT - LATER 
The fire is out, but it has blackened the inside of the joint, so that it looks like an absolute war zone. Fox is in the same position as when Wesley shot her, but there's a sheet of paper folded on her chest. The Butcher and the Pharmacist flank Sloan as he approaches the body, frowning. 
WESLEY (V.0.) When the hunter opened the door, they ripped his throat out before he could scream. 
(MORE) 
WESLEY (V.0.) (CONT'D) The two bears then curled up on the rug LW in the middle of the floor -- the rug that had once been their father -- and proceeded to bite. each other till they bled to death. Sloan reaches down and picks up the paper, and sees beneath it that pearl-handled revolver. The one with the blood on the handle. 
WESLEY (V.0.) (CONT'D) That's a true story. He unfolds it, to read printed in black ink on the paper: 
7'HE GATES OF T.T ARE OPEN Sloan folds the paper back up and looks at the blood on the gun. 
SLOAN He knows. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SLAUGHTERHOUSE ROOM - NIGHT 
Wesley stands in the slaughterhouse, holding two pistols, looking around. The place has been cleaned out. There's no sign of the Butcher. 
INT. PHARMACY - NIGHT 
Same thing at the Pharmacy, an empty store now... 
INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT 
.and in the Fraternity's library, nothing. All the books are gone... Wesley processes this, frowning. He keeps walking to the... 
MAP ROOM: .where the entire model city has been destroyed, like a Giant has trampled it beneath its feet. Wesley stoops over and pulls one smashed building out of the mess, looking at it, thinking, thinking... .and then he's up and moving quickly. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CROSS'S HOUSE - NIGHT 
Anna opens the door for Wesley, who looks like he is on to something... 
WESLEY My father... he was working on a plan, right? 
ANNA I don't know. There was so much he wanted to keep away from us... Wesley moves into Andrew's roan... where the boy is still playing with the black model buildings. Wesley moves over and crouches down next to Andrew. 
WESLEY Can I see that for a second? The boy hands him the building in his hand. It is painted jet black, except for one corner of the first floor, which is painted red. Wesley looks up at Anna. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Do you know where he got this? 
INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT 
Anna leads Wesley down some wooden steps into Cross's basement. Sure enough, the entire floor of the basement has been made into a model map, similar to the one that the Fraternity used in the map room, but all the buildings are black, with an occasional red mark. The scale is larger, the model shows only one section of the city, and a BLUE LINE indicates a route through the streets. And on the wall are PICTURES and CLIPPINGS of Henry Helms. Wesley squats over it, trying to figure out what his father's plan was. He sees a missing place for a building and puts Andrew's toy back in place, then studies the map some more. 
WESLEY (playfully back) Maybe I have and I'm just not telling you. .and now with the gift of hindsight, we see that Wesley meant what he said, and we... 
SMASH CUT BACK TO: 
INT. NICOLE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT 
Wesley still stands there, just a few feet away from her. 
WESLEY Sloan didn't just have one person in my office watching me, he had two. 
NICOLE What are you talking about? 
WESLEY What name do you go by? The Intern? He points at her tattoo. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Because I know you have the mark. Nicole's face changes, goes hard, like someone flipped a switch. Like lightning, she grabs for a butcher's knife but Wesley is faster. He pins her wrist back, twisting until she drops the knife. She lunges again, but a pistol comes up right below her chin. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Where's the Henry Helms hit going down? Where's Sloan? 
NICOLE Sloan's not your biggest problem, fuckface. 
WESLEY Yeah? Why's that? She reaches over, slowly, so he knows she's not going to go for a knife... and she turns on a small TELEVISION sitting on the kitchen counter. The screen comes to life, showing an inf mercial for the F ob'e. Nicole shakes her head and. flips up the channels... and now we see what she wanted to show him... 
ON THE NEWS: Wesley's EMPLOYEE PHOTO fills the screen above a reporter's head while the REPORTER babbles in a serious voice... 
REPORTER .responsible for several recent shootings, including one tonight at this Korean restaurant downtown and another at an outdoor mall. Details are sketchy, but we repeat, if you see this man, please contact... 
IN NICOLE'S KITCHEN: She starts cycling through the news channels... ...and each one shows. different REPORTERS standing outside the smoking bar-b-que, or talking about Wesley, or speaking with police. One is even interviewing Wesley's old boss, Janice, who is very happy for the forum... 
ON THE NEWS: 
JANICE He was aggressive toward me and other employees... a very negative person, extremely negative. I can't even repeat the words that came out of his mouth the day we let him go... 
IN NICOLE'S KITCHEN: 
WESLEY Motherfucker. Dispose of the weapon... 
(BEAT) Me. 
NICOLE That's right. And the cops were told to watch this place too. You have nowhere to go. He's smarter than you. He'll feed the cops evidence singling you out for every hit the Fraternity has pulled in the last ten years. 
WESLEY (ignoring her) I'm only going to ask you one more time. Where can I find him? 
NICOLE You won't get to him. You can't. The cops will be here any second! Wesley reaches over- -and cranks up a gas burner, the menacing flame on high. 
WESLEY Then this is going to get painful quickly. She stares at that blue flame, fear in her eyes for the first time. He starts pushing her head toward it, closer and closer... 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Henry Helms. Where is it going down? The first SCREAM from Nicole is lost in... 
THE FRONT DOOR: 
BAM. BAM BAM! 
HOSPITAL. 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOFTOP - DAY 
A guy looks down at the street with his binoculars. It's the Gunsmith! 
THE GUNSMITH (into a radio) Nothing yet, sir. 
EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - SAME 
On another tall building, Sloan talks into a radio. 
SLOAN Hold until I give the word. He clicks off the radio and looks into his palm, where- e's holding that pearl handled aun, fingering the dried blood. 
ON A CITY STREET: The suburbans and cops flank the limo as it rolls through the concrete jungle. 
IN THE LIMO: The bodyguards peer up at the buildings ready for anything. Henry Helms reaches over and grabs his wife's hand, a reassuring gesture. But his white knuckles betray his trepidation. The driver watches as they reach a frontage road on the east side of the river. 
ON THE ROAD: They make a turn along the river and haul ass toward the bridge. Traffic is sparse and they look like they have an easy clear passing. 
ON THE HOSPITAL ROOFTOP: The Gunsmith sits, waiting patiently... 
ON ANOTHER ROOFTOP: Sloan watches the Limo starting to approach the bridge. 
SLOAN (into the radio) Here comes the car. Any minute now. Take your positions. Sloan leans out over the edge of his building, gun ready. 
QUICK SHOTS: On the hospital roof, the Gunsmith puts down his binoculars and picks up a rifle. The Pharmacist leans over the edge of a building and looks down, high-powered rifle in his hand. On another building, the Chef does the same. And on still another building, the Gardener also gets ready. Each killer is in a different spot and has a gun, pointed and ready, just waiting for the signal... 
ON THE ROAD: The limo is about halfway up the incline now, a sitting duck, hellfire about to rain down upon it. 
ON THE HOSPITAL ROOFTOP: The Gunsmith waits, waits, waits... .and then, out of nowhere, surprising the hell out of him, a knife is held to his neck from behind. The Gunsmith doesn't even so much as swallow, as the blade is so tight against his throat that it draws a drop of blood. 
GUNSMITH 
(NERVOUSLY) Wesley? The CAMERA MOVES TO THE SIDE to show Wesley crouched right behind him, a look of icy determination on his face as he holds the knife in place. 
WESLEY 
(GROWLS) The name is Cross. In the distance, the Helms limo moves on, safely. 
WESLEY Looks like you missed your chance. Now where is Sloan? The Gunsmith feels the edge in Wesley's voice. 
GUNSMITH You don't understand, man. This ain't about Helms. The Intern told you right where to go... He smiles. 
GUNSMITH (CONT'D) .I'm just the decoy. THE CAMERA WHIPS around behind Wesley... to show that three laser sights are lighting up his back in a perfect pattern. And now we see it, this was al a Bet-up to get Wesley in the open. The three surrounding rooftops, slightly more elevated, hold each of the three assassins crouched-in sniper positions, zeroed in on Wesley's back. But instead of surprise, Wesley just leans in closer to the Gunsmith's ear. 
WESLEY 
(WHISPERS) She told me that, too. And with that, he rolls the o0 over of , just as the assassins on the higher rooftops all unleash a hail of bullets. BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM! The Gunsmith takes a dozen shots, all in the chest, but none of the bullets make it through the Gunsmith's body. 
WESLEY (CONT'D) Should've studied your anatomy, fellas. Wesley FIRES BACK indiscriminately at the neighboring rooftops, lying on his back, using the.dead assassin's body as a shield. 
We've seen this place before. It's the same roof where cross took out the second head of The door is kicked open and Wesley walks out, eyes blazing. Sloan is waiting for standing t feet away, holding his father's pearl-handled gun, trained right on Wesley's head. 
SLOAN Can't say I don't have a sense of irony. The place I first decided to bring you in. Wesley is clutching his wounded shoulder with his wounded hand as blood starts to seep out of it in big red drops. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) You once asked why I helped hide you as an infant... It gave me power, Wesley'. Power to become a head of the Fraternity. Power over your father. And ultimately it gave me you: the perfect weapon to kill your father. 
WESLEY But now you have to dispose of the weapon. 
SLOAN In some ways it pains me to do so. You 460 are like the son I never had. 
WESLEY Fuck you. Sloan's eyes narrow. 
SLOAN Fine. Keep your worthless dignity. You're still just the same loser we plucked off the street six weeks ago. Wesley continues to bleed, taking this in. Sloan laughs derisively. 
SLOAN (CONT'D) You can't win, Wesley. The Fraternity is everywhere. Even if you kill me others will come from other cities to take my place. You'll be hunted your whole life. 
(BEAT) But that's not gonna happen. Like I told you before, when we are called, death is as certain as the sun. Wesley stands as straight as he can muster. The two men face each other like two gunmen on Main Street in Dodge city... an old newspaper even blows through like a tumbleweed. And we are close on Wesley's face. act it i the same shot from the opening of the movie. 
WESLEY Six weeks ago, I was ordinary and pathetic. We see now that his healthy hand is inching away from his bleeding arm, reaching into his sleeve... 
WESLEY (CONT'D) But not today. With that, he nulls out the matching pearl-handled gun, the twin-brother of the one Sloan is holding, and they both open fire... .Wesley shoots Sloan's bullets out of the air and Sloan does the same. Just like he did with h' father. .But Sloan is good, and one of the bullets finds it's mark, hitting Wesley sSMarely in the same arm that took the knife. 
WESLEY (CONT'D Uhhh! He can't raise his arm, it's useless, but he's come too damn far to stop now... he flips his gun from his good hand to his bad hand and manages to keep FIRING! Then Wesley does something unexpected... he starts sprinting straight at Sloan, still knocking his bullets out of the air... He closes the gap... ten feet... five feet... ..a surprised and worried expression now spreads on Sloan's face,.like what is this kid doing? But Wesley is not stopping, he shoots the gun out of Sloan's hand and then closes on him, tackling him off his feet! They go flying right over the edge of the building. Wesley's able to grab on to a railing cable and stop himself... ..but Sloan is going to go over. At the last moment, Sloan reacher. for-something. anything. and grabs one-handed the barrel of Wesley's gun... For a moment, they dangle there in this precarious position, looking each other in the face. Sloan can't believe he's been bested by this kid. 
SLOAN 
(SNARLS) Go ahead and shoot me, killer. Just like you did your old man. Wesley's finger starts to squeeze the trigger, but then he smiles... 
WESLEY I'm done with this life. Just like my father. And with that, Wes1gy drops the n out of his h 
FROM TWO HUNDRED FEET BELOW: We watch Sloan's body fall through the sky... 
..down, down, down... .until it SMASHES into the sidewalk, splattering like a grapefruit. 
ON THE ROOFTOP: Wesley rolls over on to his back, looking up at the darkening sky. 
WESLEY (V.O.) It's true. Six weeks ago I was ordinary and-pathetic. Just like you. He sits up, moving OUT OF FRAME. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. CITY STREET - DAY 
The place is now blanketed with cops, looking at the dead bodies, trying to make sense of what happened. 
WESLEY (V.0.) But I've learned something in that time. I've learned about the man who made me. 
EXT. DOWNTOWN CORNER - DAY 
Cope stand on the street, handing out pictures of Wesley, asking pedestrians if they've seen this man. 
WESLEY (V.O.) I've learned about the man I am. 
