They all look at Lyons in his suit and bowler hat. 
AUCTIONEER Do I hear twelve guineas? Twelve guineas? 
SI EASTON That's top price for a workin' animal. Ted! Save it for the shire! 
DAD There are big days and there are small days. Which will it be? 
AUCTIONEER Do I hear any advance on eleven guineas? 
All eyes are on Lyons and his son - David is 15, smartly dressed. 
DAVID LYONS Just let him go, dad, I don't care for him, he's too... jumpy. 
Lyons isn't listening to David; he's looking hard at Ted. 
LYONS Shall we say - twenty five? 
The crowd gasps. This is clearly personal. 
SI EASTON Well, he's got you there. Nice try, Ted. 
ANDREW You were great, Mr N. Gave him a run for his money. 
But when he looks at Ted, Ted's eyes are locked into the eyes of his rival. 
AUCTIONEER Going, going... 
DAD Thirty. Thirty guineas! 
Total silence. He stares hard at Lyons. Who simply smiles, raises an eyebrow, tips his hat and walks away. It dawns on Dad that he's won the auction. He breaks into a sweat. 
AUCTIONEER Thirty guineas. Thirty guineas. Going going gone - to Mister Ted Narracott. 
He bangs his gavel. It's a done deal. 
SI EASTON What have you done, Ted? What have you done? 
Dad doesn't acknowledge Si. 
Moments later - Ted stands staring at Joey, who looks back. Ted holds his reins numbly, accepts his receipt from the auction man in a kind of daze. 
Suddenly, Lyons appears at Dad's shoulder. 
LYONS Quite a beast, there. But what you gonna do with him - on a working farm? I hope you got the rent, Ted. I'll be around for it when it comes due. 
Dad does not acknowledge Lyons. Lyons smiles and walks away with son David, and his cronies. Si shakes his head at Dad. 
SI EASTON You're a fool, Ted. And our Rosie'll never forgive you. 
EXT. NARRACOTT'S FARM. SUNSET. 
MRS. NARRACOTT kneels in her garden, digging up some carrots, when she sees Ted returning. 
Dad walks down the hedged lane as the sun sets pulling Joey with him, his bad leg always moving slightly to the side. 
Mrs. Narracott looks in horror and bewilderment at Joey and then at Dad. She is a good-looking, intelligent woman, but clearly her life is always hard. 
MRS. NARRACOTT What have you done? 
Dad stands shamefaced as Albert - the boy we have already met - runs out of the house to join them. 
ALBERT That's Mooney's colt! 
MRS. NARRACOTT You were supposed to buy a plow horse. 
ALBERT You bought him? MRS. NARRACOTT What'd you pay for him? 
Albert is totally taken by the horse. 
MRS. NARRACOTT (CONT'D) How much, Ted Narracott? 
DAD I won't tell you a lie - though I would love to. Thirty guineas. 
EXT. FARMYARD. NEXT DAY. 
Dad, with a hangover, hobbles off to work the fields. As he reaches the gate, HAROLD the goose snaps at his heels. Dad dismisses him with a stare and heads for the stables. 
EXT. THE FARMYARD, DAY. 
The training episode: Albert walks Joey around the yard on the rope. It all seems to be going well. Mum looks on. Albert is clearly proud of his progress. 
EXT. PADDOCK. ANOTHER DAY. 
Albert's friend, Andrew Easton, sits on a rock with an apple in hand to watch the training. 
Albert sets Joey in a spot and tells him to wait. 
ALBERT Whoa. I want you to stay there, Joey. Stay. That's it. Good boy. That's it, you've got it. 
Of course when Albert walks away, Joey follows. 
A game of "Grandma's footsteps" ensues as Albert patiently places Joey then walks away. 
ANDREW Hey, look at him, Albie. He's playing "Grandma's Footsteps." 
Albert patiently leads Joey back to his starting position. 
ALBERT Right, come on, Joey. Back you go. Come on. Back you go. (MORE) ALBERT (CONT'D) You're all right. That's it. Good boy. Right. You've gotta stay there, understand? 
Albert walks away again. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) That's it. Good boy. You've got it. Good boy. 
Finally Joey stays put. Andrew smiles, impressed. 
ANDREW Good boy. Good. (TO ALBERT) Now call him. Whistle. 
ALBERT Come now, Joey. Come on. 
Albert whistles like an owl. Joey stands completely still. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) You can come now, Joey. 
He whistles again. Joey remains still. 
ANDREW Don't think he fancies your owls. 
Albert walks back to Joey, frustrated. 
ALBERT No, I read it in a story. It's how the Indians used to summon their horses. He gently strokes Joey's nose. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Now, Joey, when I whistle, you've gotta come, understand? 
ANDREW My dad had a dog who stayed when you called him. He used to run up behind you when you weren't looking, and uh... 
ALBERT He's not a dog. He's just puzzling it through. 
Albert runs further away than before and whistles. After a moment, Joey trots over to him. Andrew smiles broadly. 
ANDREW Brilliant. Look at you. 
With the basis established, Albert begins to train Joey to react to the owl whistle without his prompting. It's not all easy going - sometimes Albert makes progress, sometimes not. 
QUICK MONTAGE - Mrs. Narracott fills a bucket at the pump, then promptly spills it when Joey trots past her in response to an owl whistle. She calls off, frustrated. 
MRS. NARRACOTT Albie. 
Dad heads out to the fields with a rake on his shoulder. There's an owl call and Joey trots past him in the background. Dad sees Albert welcome Joey by the haystacks, stroking his nose affectionately. Dad walks on, his expression inscrutable. 
Joey trots up a path, pursuing another owl call. After several more calls, he still can't spot Albert, until he cranes his neck up and sees Albert sitting in a nearby tree. Albert laughs. 
INT. FARM HOUSE. LATER. 
Lyons is there with his son, David, and his unlikable cronies. He holds a meager handful of cash. Dad and Mum look chastened. The mood is sombre. 
LYONS There's only fifteen here. DAD The rest will come. 
The plow skips and Albert falls. Joey's legs buckle and he goes to his knees. Albert rushes to his side. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Whoa. Whoa. Lyons calls from the crowd as rain starts to fall. 
LYONS You've got no chance, lad. He'll not turn over half an acre. Give it up now. You've done well. You've tried hard. You're more of a man than your father. 
Albert examines the collar - he sees it is ripping into Joey's flesh. He grabs his shirt, tears a piece off it, tenderly folds it and puts it between Joey's shoulder and the collar. 
SI EASTON Come on now, Mr. Lyons, that's a bit rough, isn't it? LYONS (A SHRUG:) Well, he'll destroy that horse. 
The crowd's beginning to disperse. One of Lyons' cronies holds his umbrella as he returns to his car. He passes Ted. 
LYONS (CONT'D) I'll be over Thursday. Give you a day to close it up. 
Mrs. Narracott emerges from the house and heads to the fence - holding her knitting in the rain, ignoring the leaving crowds. A SYMPATHETIC NEIGHBOR hands her: 
NEIGHBOUR Your wool. (THEN) I'm sorry, Rosie. 
Lyons passes behind her, almost speaks, but then thinks better of it. 
As the rain intensifies, Albert digs his toe into the wet soil and notices how it has softened. Suddenly something flashes through Albert's mind. He leaps into action, runs through the rain to shout at Joey. 
ALBERT Now, boy! You've got to do it, Joey. You don't know, so I'm gonna have to do the knowing for you when the rest of our lives depend on this! So get set to pull - and pull straight! And pull hard! 
He races back to the plow and sets himself. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Now, boy! Go! 
Joey pulls firmly and finally the inertia is broken - the rain has softened the earth. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Walk on, Joey! Walk on! That's it! Good boy, Joey! Good boy! 
Finally, the plow bites deep into the soil. 
ANDREW Walk on! Walk on! Walk on! Walk on, Joey! 
At the fence, Mrs. Narracott looks on in amazement. 
Albert notices a large rock in their path. Andrew sees it, too. 
ANDREW (CONT'D) (YELLING) Go around it!! 
ALBERT Whoa, Joey! Whoa, Joey! Joey! Joey, whoa whoa whoa! Joey, stop! You'll break the blade - 
Albert hauls back on the reins, but Joey throws his flanks forward, straining and lurching until the plow blade splits the rock completely in half and now the plow moves more easily through the wet ground. 
The ground yields. Soon Albert and Joey are making great progress. The wet earth slipping open beneath them. 
Andrew is loving it, speaks in wonder. 
ANDREW Will you look at you? 
Mrs. Narracott looks very happy, a smile breaking slowly across her face... 
The crowd begins to return. Lyons notices and looks out from his car - sees the plow digging through the field. Annoyed at the progress Albert's making, he gets out of his car and walks over to Mrs. Narracott. With great disdain he SAYS: 
LYONS I'd not let a child of mine slip in the mud alongside a plow blade. He could lose a foot! 
Mrs. Narracott brandishes her knitting needles, backing him up. 
ROSIE NARRACOTT You'll likelier lose an eye, Mr. Lyons, if you carry on prating at me how to manage my son! Or my plow, or my horse, or my field, or my farm! Dad sits nearby, watching this exchange with silent approval. Lyons stares at her, gape-mouthed, as she turns her attention back to Albert. 
MRS. NARRACOTT Come on, Albie! Push on through! 
The rain becomes torrential. Lyons turns towards the car - gestures, frustrated, to his driver, who runs forward with the umbrella to shield his boss from the rain. David remains on the running board, watching Albert plowing. 
The plow speeds through the earth. The boy and the horse are working as one. It is a moment of triumph. 
ANDREW Get it done, Albie! Get it done! 
We pull back to see they have made only the smallest dent in the enormous field. 
As Lyons' car passes, Dad steps forward, takes in the scene, and almost smiles. 
Albert bursts into the square just in time to see Nicholls and Dad shake hands. Their business concluded. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Thank you. 
Albert races towards Joey. Ted grabs him. Albert fights to get free. He looks at his father in anger and betrayal. 
ALBERT You can't! You can't, he's mine! I trained him! 
DAD Albert. 
Albert is hysterical. 
ALBERT You can't have him. He's my horse, sir. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS I'm afraid it's too late, lad. I've just paid thirty guineas for him. 
ALBERT (TO TED:) Please, I'll get you money. I will, I'll get you money. I'll...I'll work for it! I'll work for it. (TO NICHOLLS:) He won't obey anyone else. He won't be any good in the war, neither. He...he shies at every sound! 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS I'm sorry. 
Albert snaps to attention. 
ALBERT Well, if Joey's going, I'm going, too. I'm volunteering. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS I see. What's your name, lad? 
ALBERT Albert, sir. CAPTAIN NICHOLLS And how old are you, Albert? 
ALBERT Nineteen, sir. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLS Is that the truth? 
ALBERT No sir. But, but I look nineteen and I'm bigger than most nineteen-year- olds, sir! And I'm strong, sir! And I...I'm not afraid of anything. 
NICHOLLS INTERJECTS: 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS I don't doubt your qualifications, Albert, but the law is very clear about the proper age for soldiering, and your father's done what he had to do. You know that. Thirty guineas isn't nearly enough to purchase a horse as fine as your Joey, I know that. But it's all I've got. Will you lease him to me, Albert, to be my own mount? (he removes his cap, EARNEST) I promise you, man to man, that I'll look after him as closely as you've done, I'll respect him and all the care that you've taken with him. And if I can - I'll return him to your care. 
Albert looks at him. Although Nicholls speaks with authority he has a kindness which Albert recognizes. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Now say goodbye. 
Albert kisses Joey. 
ALBERT It's all right, boy... 
But at that moment, Sam Perkins pulls Joey away: 
SAM PERKINS All right, turn it in, eh? That's enough. He's a horse, not a dog. Now, on your way. (TO JOEY) Come on. 
Nicholls walks away into the crowd. The Sergeant pulls Joey, but Joey does not want to be separated from Albert. His reaction is implacable, reminiscent to the separation from his mother. Perkins leads Joey away. They disappear into the crowd and Rosie is suddenly there. Ted senses her silent judgment. 
DAD Do you want to lose the farm, Rose? 
ROSIE It's the way you did it. 
DAD But we're at war. 
ROSIE Aren't we just. 
She looks at Albert. Implacable. Forever. 
EXT. VILLAGE SQUARE. THE SAME. 
The recruits march through town under pennants and the strains of a familiar song("The Jolly Plowboy") - it is a song they all know, which means a lot to them - full of soul - a song of harvest or a Celtic hymn, something relating specifically to the lives they have led together. Everyone of every age - everyone in the village knows this song - it is theirs. 
Nicholls passes in his car and we see those they are leaving behind - cheering - a whole generation of young men is marching off to war. One girlfriend rushes up to kiss her leaving boyfriend. 
Albert watches Joey, then remembers the campaign pennant dangling from his pocket. He runs up to Joey - 
ALBERT Joey... 
- and tucks the pennant into Joey's halter. 
Captain Nicholls, resplendent in full uniform rides Joey out over the vast expanse of the plain. Both Nicholls and Joey are dressed up like something from the last century, out of the Boer War, even the Charge of the Light Brigade. Nicholls is proud and confident. They gather before hundreds of men and horses all lined up to be inspected. Charlie joins them, looking pretty good on Blenheim. Finally, Nicholls and Charlie reach Stewart and Topthorn waiting in position. 
MAJOR STEWART Thought you two had bottled out. 
CHARLIE WAVERLY As if. 
Nicholls looks at his friend tolerantly. 
MAJOR STEWART All right, then, let's see what you two jokers are made of, shall we? 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS This is what quiet confidence looks like. 
CHARLIE WAVERLY I'll wait for you two at the Duke of York. 
Nicholls and Stewart and Charlie prepare themselves for the charge. Joey and Topthorn size up to one another. 
MAJOR STEWART Over to you, Captain Nicholls. 
Topthorn bristles at Joey. Everyone is highly charged. The competition between Stewart and Nicholls seems to have been absorbed between the horses. Topthorn and Joey square up for the practice charge like two athletes before a race. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Draw...swords! 
Nicholls raises his sword. It glints in the summer air. It seems to hang there forever. Every man follows suit. 
Topthorn and Joey glance at each other, ready to charge. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Give...point! 
Every sword is pointed directly ahead at arm's length. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Charge!!!! 
A roar goes up from the men and a deafening pounding of hooves breaks the silence. The huge line of horses start running straight ahead of them. Joey and Topthorn run off at top speed. Dust and earth rise up behind them. Bugles, the deafening thunder of hooves. It is exhilarating. We see the scale of the operation, we enjoy the speed and the splendor of the mass of men and horses. The soldiers shout in glee and excitement. Each man pushes his horse to out-run those around him, Nicholls and Stewart seem locked in mortal combat. 
Nicholls smiles at Stewart, confidently. 
Topthorn starts to pull away, ahead of all the other horses in the line. Nicholls pushes Joey on. Topthorn seems too strong, Joey will never catch them. Nicholls is determined not to be beaten. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Come on, Joey. I know you've got it. Come on, boy! Come on! 
He pushes Joey on. Joey digs in and finds hidden strength and speed. He starts to catch up with Topthorn and draws along side. Nicholls and Stewart exchange tense looks. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Come on, boy! 
Stewart is amazed and pushes Topthorn harder. 
Now both riders are going at their top speed. They are neck and neck - they fight for every inch of advantage, every fibre of their being invested in the race. Nicholls pushes Joey on and Joey pulls away. Joey inches forward till he is almost a length ahead of Topthorn. The effort is enormous. Nicholls looks back at Stewart, very happy. Stewart's frustration shows. He knows he is beaten. 
Then suddenly they race over the line. Nicholls spears a ring decorated with a blue ribbon and pulls Joey to a halt. They have crossed the enemy line. Nicholls is ecstatic. Topthorn comes to Joey's side. 
MAJOR STEWART Whoa. Whoa. 
Nicholls laughs, grinning. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Nice of you to turn up. 
The horses are nose to nose, snorting, we sense the heat, the exertion. Topthorn and Joey are brought together by the effort. We sense Topthorn's newly minted respect for Joey. And Joey is no soft touch - he slightly holds his head up in victory, letting Topthorn know that he knows he won. 
The other horses come charging in. There is a real sense of achievement and congratulation amongst the regiment. 
MAJOR STEWART He's got speed...I'll give him that. But has he got stamina? 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS He has everything. 
The two men enjoy the moment of rivalry and the exhilaration of it all. The two horses, face to face rub against each other for the first time. A bond has been formed... 
INT. OFFICERS' STUDY. DAY. 
Stewart enters. A phonograph plays "Roses of Picardy." The walls are decorated with etchings of famous battles, and a large map of Western Europe that depicts how the English troops are crossing the channel to confront the Germans near Belgium. Nicholls is writing a letter - though actually at this moment, he is making a little pencil drawing of Joey to enclose with it. 
MAJOR STEWART What are you up to? 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS I'm writing a letter. 
SGT. MAJOR SINGH The grass to the left is taller than we are - it's perfect cover. 
MAJOR STEWART Excellent work, Sergeant Major. Time spent on reconnaissance is rarely wasted. 
As Stewart departs: 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Thank you, Singh. (CALLING AFTER) Jamie! 
Nicholls catches up to Stewart, concerned. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) They have no idea we're coming. 
MAJOR STEWART Not having scruples, are you, Jim? 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS No. I understand the surprise is everything. But if it must be done, let's do it quickly. 
Nicholls notices Charlie nervously attending his horse. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS (CONT'D) Are you alright, Charlie? 
CHARLIE WAVERLY Never been better. Literally, never better. 
We worry for him - he is afraid. 
Stewart rides through the lines astride Topthorn. 
MAJOR STEWART Prepare to mount! Mount! 
As the cry is echoed throughout the regiment, Nicholls accepts Joey from an attending soldier. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Thank you, Standley. (TO JOEY) Hey, Joey. My bonny boy. You're all right, aren't you, Joey? Hey? 
Nicholls takes the red campaign pennant from his pocket and threads it through Joey's reins. 
Minutes later - Stewart addresses the men. 
MAJOR STEWART Gentleman. It is an honour to ride beside you. Make the Kaiser rue the day he dared to cross swords with us. Let every man make himself, his King, his country, and his fallen comrades proud! Be brave. Fear God. Honor the King! 
TROOPERS (in unison shout) Fear God. Honor the King! 
EXT. OVER GROWN CORN FIELD. DAY. 
Cut to an elegant field of tall grass, waving in the gentle breeze. Then suddenly three hundred men seem to rise out of it. They are in fact our soldiers, mounting their horses - but the horses are invisible in the height of the grass. 
Stewart gives a signal. We see the intense anticipation on his face. He takes out his sabre. 
MAJOR STEWART Draw swords! The men draw their sabres in silence. The birds chirping, oblivious. 
Then Nicholls just turns to his two friends and almost whispers... 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS Good luck, my friends. 
He pats Joey's side. And then... 
MAJOR STEWART Forward, to walk! Walk...march! 
The regiment begins moving through the field. 
MAJOR STEWART (CONT'D) Forward to canter! Canter...march! 
The men start to float over the grass - swept along by their invisible horses, until... 
Suddenly they emerge from the tall grass - the immense power of the galloping horses - silence explodes into a violent crashing of hooves. The noise is immense, swords are flying in the air. Hundreds of horses racing towards the German encampment. 
On the German side, TWO SOLDIERS wake to the sound of hoofbeats. They pull their tent flap aside to find the invincible charge coming towards them. The Germans are totally unprepared. We see them scramble back towards tents, rush towards their guns - one man pulling up his trousers rushes for cover. One German drops some dirty dishes into a wash pot, screaming: 
GERMAN SOLDIER Kavallerie! 
Topthorn and Joey race each other like a rerun of their practice on Salisbury Plain. The swords and uniforms glint in the sun, the German troops look terrified - some run in panic, others prepare to stand their ground. 
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS CHARGE! 
The British head in for the kill, the men scream battle cries with sheer exhilaration. 
MICHAEL Gunther! It's hopeless - we can't help them. 
And suddenly Joey moves up and presents himself, with his strange self assurance and self sacrifice. And instinct for survival. 
He sniffs the harness and places his head through it, which helps to calm Topthorn enough that Gunther can slip the collar onto the big black horse. Gunther turns to Joey, impressed. 
GUNTHER Well, well, look at you. Whoever taught you this has just saved your life. 
Gunther spots the red ribbon in Joey's saddle, removes it, folds it, and places it in his pocket. 
Later - Gunther and Michael are returning from the battlefield with Topthorn and Joey, pulling an ambulance with British and German wounded. Amongst the wounded, we see a hand gripping a battered, silk lined hat. It is Waverly, wounded but alive. 
EXT. NARRACOTT'S FARM. DEVON. DAY. 
Si Easton lets himself in through the gate. Ted pulls up turnips from their three acre crop. 
Rosie, just across a furrow, is also engaged in the harvest. It's hard work. Si holds a parcel. 
SI EASTON Hello the farm! 
ROSIE (looking up, wiping her BROW) Hello, Si Easton! 
Albert passes carrying a crate laden with turnips, but pulls up short when he hears: 
SI EASTON I was at the post office and while I was there, Mrs. Allen said a parcel had come for Albert, from the, from the, from over there - and I thought I could go up that way in the morning. And - here it is. 
ALBERT Well, who'd be sending me a parcel over there? 
DAD Well, open it and see. 
Albert opens the parcel and pulls out a leather sketchbook... 
ALBERT It's a sketchbook... (gasp of realization) That's Captain Nicholls' sketchbook! See that? That's a picture of Joey! ROSIE It's a picture of Joey. Well, I never! 
ALBERT (EXCITED) And there's a letter... 
ROSIE Well, go on then, go on. 
ALBERT All right. (READING) "Dear Albert Narracott. (MORE) ALBERT (CONT'D) Captain Nicholls, who died...Captain Nicholls, who died in action today left you this. Yours, Sergeant Sam Perkins. 
Si Easton drops his head guiltily. Rosie catches this. 
ROSIE You weren't to know it was bad news. 
ALBERT He was riding Joey when he died. 
ROSIE You don't know that he was riding him... 
ALBERT "In action," it says. 
Everybody falls silent. Albert goes to the fence and looks down at the sketches of Joey. Rosie looks at her son, her heart breaking for him. Dad returns to the harvest without a word. Albert looks off to the horizon and - over there. 
EXT. GERMAN BASE CAMP. EVENING. 
CLOSE -- A step stool. 
Michael mounts the stool next to Joey and Topthorn, removes their harnesses and carries them across the road. 
Michael slips and falls into the mud. Gunther dashes over and pulls him up just before a military convoy pulls into the camp, running over the tack. 
The BASE CAMP OFFICER appears on a motorbike. BASE CAMP OFFICER. Gentlemen! We move forward to the frontline tonight. Full marching orders. Get moving! 
As the soldiers hop to their orders, the officer turns to - 
BASE CAMP OFFICER Schroeder! Schroeder! 
Both Michael and Gunther turn to him. But it's Gunther the Officer wants to talk to. 
BASE CAMP OFFICER (CONT'D) No, not you - you. Come. 
Gunther picks up the dropped harnesses as he approaches. 
BASE CAMP OFFICER (CONT'D) I'm keeping you here. You are best with the horses and we need to move the camp quickly if the enemy continue to push through from the west. 
They spot a lonely house and burst past a line with some drying clothes. 
As they ride, they grab civilian shirts and jackets and trousers, the clothes pegs pinging off and falling to the ground. 
And on they ride - though all too soon day starts to break in the far distance. They see a very dilapidated windmill. They aim for it as the sun begins to seriously break over the horizon. 
INT. / EXT. WINDMILL. DAWN. 
They reach the windmill. It feels very unused. The machinery of the windmill creaks in the dawn. The brothers untether the horses, careful now that it is light outside. 
MICHAEL I'm hungry. Did you bring food? GUNTHER I'm sorry. 
Michael fingers the pennant on Joey's reins. Then... 
MICHAEL Will Father be ashamed? 
GUNTHER He will pretend to be. Maybe at first he will be. But in the end, he will be glad. 
MICHAEL And us? What about us? 
Gunther looks at him - but doesn't reply. As Michael removes JOEY'S SADDLE: MICHAEL (CONT'D) I was ready to go. I was proud to go. (after a beat, in a very SMALL VOICE) I wanted to go. 
Later - They sit in silence, waiting for sleep. 
MICHAEL (CONT'D) The food in Italy is good. 
GUNTHER Yes. 
MICHAEL What about the women? 
GUNTHER Not as good as the food. 
MICHAEL Because...they've eaten too much of the food? 
GUNTHER You are too young for war. And you're too young for women! 
Gunther laughingly pushes him over. 
MICHAEL I don't feel so young. Not anymore. 
MICHAEL (CONT'D) Michael. MICHAEL (CONT'D) What? 
GUNTHER Go to sleep - we have a big night of riding ahead. Goodnight, Michael. 
He jokingly strokes Michael's cheek. Michael swats him away, but as he settles in the hay: 
MICHAEL Night night, Gunther. 
EXT. WINDMILL. DUSK. 
Gunther and Michael sleep. Suddenly something awakens Joey. He stirs and then rises. Hear the sound of engines and see lights through the slats sweeping across Joey's face. Michael and Gunther are stirring in their sleep as we hear a car and several motorcycles approaching. Head-lamps filter through the cracks in the windmill walls stabbing the brothers awake. 
GERMAN SOLDIER Hei! In die windmühle! 
The boys spring up, speaking in terrified whispers. 
GUNTHER Go, go, go... 
MICHAEL Okay. 
They race up a nearby ladder, but Michael stumbles against a table, upsetting some gear. It clatters loudly. They cower as they hear boots tromping up the steps outside. Then the windmill doors are thrown open, pinning them in the bright headlights of the vehicles. 
As they're marched out, we see what they see: A German car - two motorcycles. Six Germans, including the officer who was in charge of them. 
BASE CAMP OFFICER Schroeder. 
GUNTHER Yes, sir. 
BASE CAMP OFFICER A mistake? He's offering an excuse, but - 
GUNTHER A promise. 
The officer accepts this grimly, nods. 
GRANDFATHER They must belong to someone. Horses like this don't just appear from a fairy-tale. 
EMILIE Yes - I know, Grandpére. They are not unicorns - so I will be fair and wait -- one day. 
GRANDFATHER Emilie... Emilie... 
EMILIE And if no one comes to get them by night-time, then they belong to me. 
GRANDFATHER Emilie. Look at me. You cannot ride. 
EMILIE Mother used to tell me how my bones would give way with the slightest bump or fall. 
GRANDFATHER Yes. That's right. So it is settled? She kisses his cheek -- 
GRANDFATHER (CONT'D) Good girl. 
-- but then calmly leads the horses back to the windmill. 
EMILIE It will only be settled when I decide which one to ride first. 
GRANDFATHER But it's - Over my dead body! 
EMILIE At least I won't have long to wait. 
That is the end of the conversation as far as she is concerned. 
EXT. FARM HOUSE. DAY. 
Emilie is with the horses in the little stable at the end of the courtyard - a bit away from the farm house - she is feeding them out of a bucket - not very nice gruel.... WE SEE THAT SHE IS HESITANT WITH THEM - that she has spent no time around horses. 
EMILIE (TO JOEY) I was in love with a boy called François - who had your lovely eyes. (TO CLAUDE) Unfortunately he was in love with a girl called Marie, who had your teeth. She fell for a boy called Claude - who broke my heart. And who I intend to marry one day. 
INT./EXT. FIELD IN FRONT OF FARMHOUSE. DAY. 
Grandfather watches Emilie from inside the house as he makes jam. 
EMILIE (O.S.) Eyes on me. No talking. 
Outside, Emilie has fashioned two jumps. The big one for Joey and a little demonstration obstacle for herself. She leads Joey to a starting point about 30 yards in front of some crates supporting a stick about four feet off the ground. The red pennant hangs from the stick. Joey stands quietly as Emilie hobbles to the big jump, making a jumping gesture with her hand. EMILIE (CONT'D) Today we learn to jump. Did you know the French cleared one meter eighty- five at the Paris Olympics to win the gold medal? Today we will beat that record. 
Grandfather chuckles. Emilie indicates the larger barrier. 
EMILIE (CONT'D) This is your jump. When I call you....be very brave and leap over it. 
She claps, but Joey doesn't move. 
EMILIE (CONT'D) Leap over it! Watch me. 
She turns to her demonstration jump and easily steps over her six-inch high barrier. 
EMILIE (CONT'D) And now it's your -- 
She turns to find Joey already stepping over her mini-jump, stopping in front of her. He's only interested in the apple in her hand. She takes a bite herself. 
JUMP TO: 
Emilie returns Joey to the starting line and runs back behind the big jump. From behind her back she produces three big carrots dripping soil. Joey's ears perk and he takes off quickly but at the last moment veers right and passes between the two jumps. 
INT. FARMHOUSE. DAY. 
Grandfather is watching through the window as he prepares his strawberry jams. He laughs and goes back to work. 
BACK TO FIELD 
Aware she's being watched, she slings the carrots over her shoulder, frustrated. 
JUMP TO: 
EXT. BARN. LATER. 
Joey slowly emerges from the barn with Emilie out in front leading him with one hand. In the other hand, she carries a small wooden step ladder. 
EMILIE He doesn't think we can do it. But we will show him, won't we? 
GERMAN SOLDIER What is that? 
GRANDFATHER The wind. It plays tricks in the attic. 
Brandt licks his finger and tests: 
BRANDT There is no wind. 
GRANDFATHER An old house creaks. (TO EMILIE) Go - close the shutters. 
Emilie runs out of the room. The soldier picks up the medicine bottle. 
GERMAN SOLDIER She's sickly, no? GRANDFATHER If you or any of your friends harm her, as old as I am, I will kill you. 
The soldier looks shocked and then begins to laugh. He slaps the medicine flask into Grandfather's chest. 
GERMAN SOLDIER You know, I was going to give you back your pot. But now I'm going to keep it. For soup. 
He slings the huge pot he had put back up on his shoulder and leaves the house with the other soldiers. 
BRANDT We will be back in the new season. 
As the Germans leave, we cut to the upstairs bedroom where Emilie lies curled up on the bed - and there, standing on either side of the bed - are the two horses. They look huge in the tiny room. 
INT. KITCHEN. LATE THAT NIGHT. 
The sound of shells exploding. A huge bombardment somewhere in the deep distance. But much closer than before. The distant, malicious giants of war growl. 
It is like a lightning storm on the horizon. 
The kitchen has been emptied. The war has finally come to them - and we can see it on Emilie's face. EMILIE Tell me what happened to them. To my mother and father. 
Grandfather doesn't respond. 
EMILIE (CONT'D) You said you would tell me how they died. On my birthday. And tomorrow's my birthday! They died fighting, didn't they? But when the soldiers COME - 
She finally turns to face him. 
EMILIE (CONT'D) - you do nothing. You are a coward, aren't you? GRANDFATHER Yes. Yes. It was your parents who were brave. I make jams. 
EMILIE And you've never done a brave thing in your life? 
He eases himself into a chair and shrugs. 
GRANDFATHER Maybe there are different ways to be brave. Did you know the French have the best carrier pigeons? And this could be the difference in the war - our messages getting through. 
EMILIE I don't want to hear about the birds. 
GRANDFATHER They are released at the front and told to go home - this is all they know. But to get there they must fly over a war. Can you imagine such a thing? Here you are flying over so much pain and terror - and you know you can never look down. You have to look forward or you'll never get home. I ask you - what could be braver than that? 
Emilie sheds a single tear. INT. THE BARN. DAWN. 
Grandfather enters the barn, strokes Topthorn's nose as he passes. He sweeps aside a rug from the barn floor, to reveal a trap door. Then, he opens it. 
Now from out of the trap door, he lifts a big ungainly object, covered in another rug. 
INT. FARMHOUSE KITCHEN. MORNING. 
Emilie comes down the stairs as Grandfather waits proudly by the stove. She stops when she sees the OBJECT COVERED BY THE RUG. 
EMILIE What is that? 
GRANDFATHER A present. 
Emilie moves toward the object that is covered. 
EMILIE I hope you have not bought me a disgusting dress that I then have to wear like last year. 
GRANDFATHER (LAUGHING) It was disgusting? 
EMILIE Yes. I looked like an ugly nun. 
Then she stops herself and turns to Grandfather with a parental rebuke. 
BRANDT - or until the war is over. 
GRANDFATHER It will never be over! 
BRANDT You have your answer then. 
The motorbikes start up and drive off. The Grandfather hugging tiny Emilie as she coughs. 
The Germans disappear up the lane leaving the old man and the child bereft in the bitter cold. 
EXT. GERMAN CAMP. LATER. 
Two grooms trail Brandt, leading Joey and Topthorn toward a makeshift corral. 
BRANDT Heiglemann - these are yours. 
FRIEDRICH Yes, sir. 
BRANDT They look strong - should last a month or two. FRIEDRICH is an unprepossessing, chubby man. He marvels at Topthorn. 
FRIEDRICH You are beautiful. 
But then he looks to the other horses penned nearby, haggard and weak. He turns to Joey. 
FRIEDRICH (CONT'D) It's a pity they found you. 
He takes the leads of the pair of them. He sighs... 
FRIEDRICH (CONT'D) Such a pity... 
In a strange way, there are many humans Joey meets, but also just one, the spirit of goodness and consideration for animals, joined by little echoes throughout the film. 
And then they go over a ridge - and we suddenly see the explanation of Friedrich's comment. The road they can see below them is the main through road of the area - and it is a scene of horse horror - huge, massive guns and cannons and artillery being dragged by teams of horses that are in a terrible condition. 
For Joey and Topthorn, this is a moment like when soldiers arrived to liberate the prisoners who had been kept in Changi prison by the Japanese during World War 2. They have never seen horses in this condition. You can see in their eyes the confusion. This is a whole different world, where horses can turn into creatures that look like this. 
And it is also a vision of their future. This may be the moment the mighty Topthorn begins to lose hope. For Joey it is another level of knowledge - another mighty thing he will fight through - because he always fights through. 
EXT. STEEP INCLINE. DAY. 
Friedrich leads Joey and Topthorn in the wake of THE HUGE MORSER - an elaborate 15 ton monstrosity with a six inch bore. It takes a team of six horses to haul it with a dozen men pushing from behind. 
ARTILLERY OFFICER Pull together! 
A soldier calls from the front of the heavy cannon - pulled by a particularly wretched group of horses. ARTILLERY SOLDIER Halt! Halt! Stop! 
Lower down the hill, Friedrich waves down the rest of the column. 
FRIEDRICH Stop! Stop! 
At the front of the Morser, one of the lead horses collapses - he will never get up again. 
Brandt steps up, pulls a revolver out of his pocket and shoots the horse dead. It has come to this. 
Joey, Topthorn, and all the other horses are spooked by the pistol shot. 
Brandt shouts to Friedrich from the road. BRANDT Heiglemann, bring up another one! 
ARTILLERY OFFICER Heiglemann, bring up another horse! 
BRANDT That one! 
Friedrich begins leading Joey up the hill, but -- 
BRANDT (CONT'D) No, no. The big black one! 
Friedrich hauls Topthorn, hesitantly, while Joey watches. 
As he reaches Brandt: 
FRIEDRICH He's a good horse, sir. But if you move him up to the heavy gun, he will be no use at all. Prince is already losing condition. His leg, sir. 
BRANDT You have given them names? 
It is David - Lyon's son - now in charge of this small group of men. Still arrogant - looking older than Albert in his uniform - and clearly enjoying his superior rank. 
DAVID I hear you and your mate were doing bird imitations again. You gonna write a letter to your horse? 
Albert ignores him. Andrew can't help but giggle. DAVID (CONT'D) After you find your horse, I've lost my needle in a haystack, and I could use some help. 
David takes up a bucket and walks down the line of soldiers. 
DAVID (CONT'D) Anything valuable. Anyone who comes back gets to share it out. 
ALBERT (TO ANDREW) Stay here. 
Albert follows David down the trench. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Remember that day me and Joey raced you in your car? 
DAVID I remember you somersaulting through the air. 
ALBERT Who was that girl you were with? 
DAVID There was a girl? 
Albert nods. 
ALBERT There was. Don't you remember? 
DAVID It was just some girl, I suppose. I don't recall which one. I do remember you falling on your bum in a ditch. 
Andrew laughs amiably. David points to him, smirking. 
DAVID (CONT'D) You see? Always entertaining, Narracott, I'll give you that. 
As David walks on, Andrew smiles at Albert. 
ANDREW You did that? You fell on your bum? 
Albert leaves without answering. Andrew keeps smiling until a large shell explodes nearby. Troops surge towards their ladders as officers scream indistinct orders. 
Now David leads his troop through the trenches to the front line where they stop, lean against the enemy-side wall nervously and wait - each man in private contemplation. 
Sergeant Martin moves along the lines, pushing men forward. 
SERGEANT MARTIN Be ready! Be ready! Let's go, men, get ready to go! Get ready to move out! Stay in position! 
David calls out from atop a trench ladder. 
DAVID Hold your nerve, boys. Remember, it's not far to go. There's a way through. (he moves down the line) Run fast, keep your wits about you, keep your eyes open and God and the King will keep an eye on you. Company will fix bayonets! Fix bayonets! 
The echo of `fix bayonets' goes down the line - and every man fixes the brutal shining bayonet to the end of his gun. 
Then Albert turns to Andrew. 
ALBERT You know what it reminds me of out there? 
ANDREW What? 
ALBERT That bloody impossible lower field the day me and Joey plowed it. Best day of my life that was and you were there. 
ANDREW And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him. 
He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another soldier. DAVID Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks. 
SOLDIER Yes, sir. 
David turns to Albert and Andrew. 
DAVID Come on, boys, come on. To the ladder! 
ALBERT (TO ANDREW) Stick close to the gentry, that's our ticket, yeah? We have the pluck but they have the luck. They both smile. And then the fear takes over again. Andrew particularly feels as though he is on the very edge now. David urges them forward. 
DAVID You, too, Narracott. (TO ANDREW) And you, too. 
Andrew and Albert pass by the bucket. They throw some valuables in. But a moment later, Albert goes back to the bucket and pulls something out - a worn piece of paper - he unfolds it - it is the little sketch that Captain Nicholls drew of Joey the night before they left for France. He slips it inside his shirt, next to his heart. 
Albert pauses just in time. Then he collapses against the side of the trench, overwhelmed. 
ANDREW (CONT'D) Albie. 
Andrew grabs Albert and holds him up, embracing him. Albert can barely whisper: 
ALBERT We made it. We made it. 
A moment later, the pair of them hurry through the trenches. Albert spots more comrades around a corner and calls ahead to Andrew. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) Andrew, this way out! Suddenly ANOTHER SOLDIER leaps from a trench branch between them, shouting in panic. 
SOLDIER Gas! Gas! Gas! 
An instant later, a gas cloud blasts through the trench. Andrew and Albert look in horror. It spreads towards them, too powerful to avoid. Andrew is closest, turns to Albert with a helpless - 
ANDREW Albie... 
- before he takes the full power of it. An instant later, the white, deadly cloud encompasses Albert, too... 
EXT. EDGE OF THE BATTLEFIELDS. DUSK. Close on hooves and boots, slogging through muddy water, several inches deep. 
Friedrich is walking along, leading Topthorn and Joey. Topthorn is limping. 
Something is wrong - Topthorn seems to be failing - he coughs badly, breathes strangely. Friedrich stops to check on him. An officer notices. 
GERMAN OFFICER Hey, there's no stopping here. Keep them moving. 
FRIEDRICH Sir, there's something wrong. This one needs to rest. 
GERMAN OFFICER There's no rest for them. Move them along. Move them along! 
Instead, Friedrich leads the horses under the cover of a low bridge for a brief respite. A moment later, Topthorn collapses. 
FRIEDRICH Please, please, please. Stay on your feet. No, please. No no no... 
Friedrich tries to help Topthorn valiantly struggling to get up but finally sinks to the ground again. This time he lies semi-conscious. He is dying. 
FRIEDRICH (CONT'D) Please please... Stay on your feet. 
Joey deeply upset nuzzles his nose into Topthorn but the life drains out him. Friedrich is in panic at Topthorn's quick DECLINE: 
FRIEDRICH (CONT'D) Come on. Please please... 
Friedrich continues to stroke Topthorn's head. Joey pushes Topthorn as if to stop him falling into unconsciousness. For a moment we think Topthorn will come round but he slips away and all life leaves his body. Friedrich solemnly strokes the horse, knowing all is lost. 
Joey does not understand. He pulls at Topthorn's reins, as if trying to pull him upright. Topthorn's body is inert, his head falls to the earth. Joey will not give up, he pulls at him desperately not understanding that Topthorn has died. 
Suddenly, Friedrich looks around. Chaos - all the German soldiers stream back past their position, scrambling to get their guns and helmets. An officer charges down the bank next to the bridge, screaming orders at Friedrich. 
GERMAN OFFICER They're coming! Leave it, private! 
Friedrich tries to pull Joey away to safety but Joey will not leave Topthorn's body. Friedrich pulls at Joey, but Joey is too lost in his grief to care about or even notice the danger. 
GERMAN OFFICER (CONT'D) Leave it! Come with me! 
FRIEDRICH Go to hell! 
The officer nods to two other soldiers who pull Friedrich to safety. As he's dragged away, he screams at Joey: 
FRIEDRICH (CONT'D) Run. Run! Run! Run! 
But this is all background noise to Joey's profound refusal to accept Topthorn is dead. He paws at the ground next to Topthorn, a horse standing over his best friend in a field, and he will never leave him. 
And then suddenly - from around a blind turn in the streambed, a huge, remorseless tank turns, heading right for Joey. He bolts, galloping down the streambed, until he reaches a barbed wire barrier - a dead end. He attempts to run up the banks, but they're blocked, as well. He rears up, but the tank keeps advancing. 
The tank is about to crush Joey. He has left it too late. He is about to die. 
But then, counter-intuitively, he runs straight towards the tank and...leaps over it - a leap he learnt from Emilie. Then scrambles up and over it and leaps down behind. 
Joey keeps on running. He is wild, frightened. 
EXT. COUNTRYSIDE / VILLAGE / TRENCH. THE SAME. 
EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME. 
Peter lowers his binoculars. 
PETER He's caught on the wire. 
EXT. BRITISH TRENCHES, THE SAME. 
GEORDIE SOLDIER Oh sod it... 
Geordie climbs up the side of the trench, and waves a white handkerchief tied to the end of his bayonet. 
BRITISH CAPTAIN What do you think you're doing? Get back, do you hear me? Corporal, that's an order! Get back! 
Geordie, not receiving fire, is emboldened to stand up. 
BRITISH SOLDIER Listen to him, sir. We can't leave him. 
He waves the handkerchief to clearly signal he is no threat. 
EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME. 
The Germans look at the young soldier making his way over No Man's Land. PETER What's he doing? 
SECOND GERMAN It's a trap. 
PETER No, I don't think so. I think he's trying to help. 
The second German cocks his rifle and starts to take aim. 
THIRD GERMAN Scare him back into his hole. 
The second German takes a shot aimed over the Geordie's shoulder. 
EXT. NO MAN'S LAND. THE SAME. 
The Geordie crouches for cover, waving his handkerchief more frantically. 
GEORDIE It's a white flag, ent it? You see the white flag!? I'm just after tending to this here horse, is all! 
The Georgie marshals his courage and stands again, waving the handkerchief. 
BRITISH CAPTAIN Get back, you stupid git! 
There's no fire from the German trenches. Muttering to himself, the Geordie marches forward towards Joey: GEORDIE The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, he leadeth me into green pastures, he lay me down beside the still waters... 
The Geordie walks very slowly across the mud - there are bodies - the ground squelches beneath his feet. He waves his handkerchief as he walks. He crosses a narrow bridge that spans a flooded bomb crater. 
Joey, lying on his side, wrapped head to toe in barbed wire, covered in mud, watches Geordie approach. When Geordie gets too close, Joey freaks out and begins thrashing about. Joey whinnies a high scream of pain, because wire is cutting into his hide in several places, and as he thrashes it cuts him deeper. Particularly worrisome is a strand that's wrapped around his head, crossing right over his eye, threatening to slash it. The Geordie calls out in a soothing voice: 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) Poor beastie. Poor babbie. It's alright. It's alright. Don't buck and wriggle so, you're only shredding yourself. 
Joey calms a little, still moving his head up and down. 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) You'll blind yourself. 
He reaches Joey and surveys the formidable tangle of wire in which Joey's bundled. The Geordie soothes and at the same time gingerly tests other strands, trying to figure out where to begin. 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) Bugger me worthless - I didn't think to bring gloves or something to cut THE - 
He stabs his hand on one of the barbs. 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) OW! DAMN! OW!! 
There's a noise behind him, and the Geordie turns around to see the Peter (the German from the trench) standing several feet away, holding some wire cutters. 
PETER I thought perhaps you might need these. He holds out the wire cutters. The Geordie, still frightened, stares stupidly at them. 
PETER (CONT'D) For the barbed wire? 
GEORDIE Yeah, yeah I... Ummm, thanks. Cheers. Cheers... 
He reaches out and takes the proffered cutters. 
GEORDIE Yet we taught `em opposite. Running into the fray. 
PETER War horse. 
GEORDIE Yeah. War horse. And there he is. What a strange beast you've become. 
The Geordie grabs hold of Joey's halter, though Joey shows no sign of running. 
Joey is finally free. 
The two men look at each other. 
PETER And now? GEORDIE I take him back with me, yeah? 
PETER Since I supplied the cutters, the horse is mine. This is fair, no? 
GEORDIE In a pig's eye. He's English, plain to see. 
PETER Oh, you mean because he's so filthy? 
GEORDIE Because he's so smart. And you're none too clean yourself. 
PETER We could box. And the winner gets the horse. 
The Geordie smiles. 
GEORDIE No, thanks, pet. Must be careful not to start a war. (patting his pockets:) Do you have a coin of any sort? 
PETER Coin toss? 
GEORDIE Yeah. He takes a coin from his pocket, hands it to the Geordie, who looks at it. 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) All right, Fritz - you're on. 
He flips the coin back to Peter. 
PETER My name is not Fritz - it is Peter. 
GEORDIE Peter - I'm Colin. 
PETER You call it, Colin. 
GEORDIE Heads. Peter spins it in the air and lets it fall into the mud. They look down. Peter shakes his head, resigned. 
PETER That's the face of my Kaiser and he does not look pleased with me. The horse is yours. 
They collect their helmets as snow begins to blow around them. 
GEORDIE Gone quiet, hasn't it? 
PETER Yes. (PAUSE) (MORE) PETER (CONT'D) But wait half an hour and we'll be shooting again. 
GEORDIE I'm a terrible shot, Pete, don't believe I'll ever hit the target. 
He hands back the cutters. 
PETER Thanks. 
He notices the Geordie has offered his hand, as well. A beat, then Peter shakes with him. 
PETER (CONT'D) Cheerio, mate. (RE JOEY:) You'll take good care of him, yes? 
GEORDIE I will. 
PETER Our strange beast. 
GEORDIE And you take care of your own strange self. 
Peter tosses Geordie his cutters. 
PETER Colin! A pair of German cutters - in memory of your handsome friend from Dusseldorf. 
GEORDIE Thanks. 
ALBERT What kind of an horse? 
AN ORDERLY Bloody miraculous kind of an horse, be my guess. Nothing makes it out of No Man's Land. 
Albert lies there, but can't let go of the thought: 
ALBERT Miraculous horse... 
EXT. HOSPITAL AREA. SAME. 
Joey stands - breathing very deeply. The Doctor touches his wounded leg. 
The men from all over the medical area gather around Joey concerned about their new hero's pain. 
The doctor looks at the Geordie and frowns shaking his head "no." 
GEORDIE (to the doctor:) He was alive, y'see, sir, where nothing survives, so to me and me mates, to the men, sir, he's - Well, we have high hopes for him - DOCTOR You should shoot him now. 
The Geordie is broken hearted. 
GEORDIE Oh, but I can't. 
DOCTOR It'd be a mercy, lad, that leg's not going to mend. 
The Doctor sadly addresses a nearby Sergeant. 
DOCTOR (CONT'D) Sergeant. Put him out of his misery. 
The doctor nods his head towards Joey. The sergeant, SERGEANT FRY, takes his gun from his holster, checks that it's loaded. He turns to some nearby NURSES, urging them away. 
SERGEANT FRY Ladies, if you please. 
Total silence from the crowd who have gathered. They thought they were there to see something wonderful. And now they find that they've gathered for an execution - but can't take their eyes off it. The Sergeant waves them back. 
SERGEANT FRY (CONT'D) All right, back off. Back off. 
The Geordie is the last to step away from Joey. The sergeant draws breath - before he steps forward to take aim. Joey is totally still, sensing the atmosphere. The sergeant cocks his pistol. 
Suddenly there is a strange owl like whistle from fifty yards away. Joey looks around startled. 
The sergeant turns Joey's head back around, raises his pistol once more. 
Then, the whistle again. Even the doctor notices this time. 
Joey turns. Slowly, the crowd parts - another owl whistle - and we see Albert, his eyes bandaged - walking forward blindly - guided by the hands of the crowd. 
One soldier urges Albert gently. 
SOLDIER Go on. Do it again. One more whistle. 
ALBERT Joey? 
And this time, Joey trots over to Albert. The horse nuzzles into him. Albert can't see Joey but he touches him. 
ALBERT (CONT'D) (SOFTLY:) Hello, Joey. Hello boy. Where you been then, hey? Where in the world you been? 
He strokes Joey's mane. Joey responds, becoming very still. The Doctor approaches with the Geordie. 
DOCTOR (to the Geordie:) Do you know this man? 
The Geordie shakes his head, no. The Doctor speaks to Albert, gently; clearly he thinks he's dealing with a traumatized, possibly crazy soldier. 
DOCTOR (CONT'D) What's your name? 
Albert, realizing he's being addressed, turns to the doctor. 
ALBERT Narracott, Private Albert Narracott, sir. 
DOCTOR This is a random horse, Narracott, and too badly injured. (to the orderly) Is this man in your care? 
AN ORDERLY Yes, sir. 
ALBERT He's not random at all, sir! He's my horse, I raised him, in Devon. Sir, look at his legs! He's got four white socks, he's brown all over - (points to his own FOREHEAD) - and he has a white mark here - like so... 
GEORDIE (CONT'D) - even asked the Major to say that Joey was his, an officer's horse, so that he could go back with the others. 
Albert is amazed. He is about to show his gratitude when the sergeant major shouts: 
SERGEANT FRY Come on, Narracott! Get a move on. We don't want to miss the show. 
Albert snaps to attention and begins to lead Joey out of the parade ground with the other horses. 
As they walk off, the sergeant silently adds some of his own money to the notes in Albert's hand. 
EXT. MARKET PLACE. DAY. The intense bustle of the market. Farmers are gathered, bidding for horses. 
AUCTIONEER Seven pounds! Seven pounds there! Seven pounds! Eight pounds here! 
A groom leads Joey to the auction pen with other horses. 
AUCTIONEER (CONT'D) Eight pounds! Ten pounds here! Any advance? Sold! 
INT. AUCTION PEN. THE SAME. 
Albert waits anxiously, the Geordie lad by his side, as Joey is led into the pen. 
GEORDIE You're alright. Nobody's gonna bid more than fifteen for a thoroughbred. They want work horses. 
The auctioneer starts the bidding on Joey. 
AUCTIONEER Next one. We start at four pounds. Four pounds. 
The farmers seem disinterested, shaking of heads. The bidding starts. Five pounds, six, seven, now it goes slowly, eight, nine, ten. Albert looks pleased at how it's going. He feels the cash in his hand. It seems to stick on ten, then a new hand comes up at the back of the auction - it is a nasty looking moustached man. THE BUTCHER Eleven. 
Sergeant Fry scowls. 
SERGEANT FRY It's the butcher from Cambrai. He's been bidding for the best all morning. 
AUCTIONEER Eleven. Eleven pounds. Eleven pounds. 
SERGEANT FRY Let me handle this, private. (he calls out) ) Fifteen, and let that be an end to it. 
He looks daggers at the Butcher. AUCTIONEER Fifteen pounds. 
BUTCHER Sixteen. 
AUCTIONEER Sixteen pounds. 
SERGEANT FRY Seventeen. 
BUTCHER Twenty of your English pounds. And let THAT be the end of it, my friend. 
AUCTIONEER Twenty pounds. 
SERGEANT FRY Twenty Five. 
AUCTIONEER Twenty five pounds. 
BUTCHER Twenty Six. 
AUCTIONEER Twenty six pounds. 
The men are all looking very worried... There's not much left. SERGEANT FRY Twenty seven. 
BUTCHER Twenty eight. 
AUCTIONEER Twenty eight pounds. 
SERGEANT FRY Twenty nine. 
BUTCHER And thirty. 
AUCTIONEER Any advance at thirty pounds? 
Then, from the back, another, new French voice... FINAL BIDDER One hundred pounds. 
He steps to the front of the crowd, and suddenly we see who it is. It is Emilie's Grandfather. 
