WHEN A STRANGER CALLS 
Written by 
Steve Feke and Fred Walton 
SHOOTING DRAFT 
FADE IN: 
EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - NIGHT 
A quiet upper-middle class neighborhood. The CAMERA is at the curb, looking down the street. There are no sidewalks. Trees arch overhead. CICADAS drone on the soundtrack. 
The OPENING TITLES briefly FADE IN and OUT, framed by the trees on either side of the street. Footsteps are heard approaching. 
As the picture TITLE FADES, out of the dark emerges a GIRL 17 years old, carrying schoolbooks. This is JILL. CAMERA PANS with her ninety degrees as she comes to the front of a house and stops. 
Lights are on in the bottom half of the house, and the curtains across the windows are open. A single light burns in the upper right side of the house, presumable in a bedroom, but the curtains in the room are drawn. 
A scene TITLE appears on the lower half of the screen: 
8 pm Tuesday, March 23, 1971 
The TITLE FADES, and Jill heads up the walk to the front door of the house. 
The light in the upper floor of the house is turned off. 
INT. HOUSE - FRONT HALL 
A middle-aged DOCTOR is standing at the foot of the stairs. His WIFE is descending the stairs, putting on her earrings. She is in an obvious hurry. 
WIFE Where's the girl? 
DOCTOR I only called her ten minutes ago -- 
WIFE (passing into living room) I made our reservation for 8:15. We're going to be late. 
The doorbell rings. 
DOCTOR Here she is now. 
He crosses to the front door and opens it. The girl smiles at him uncomfortably from outside. 
JILL Dr. Minakis? 
DOCTOR Mandrakis. It's okay. Everyone gets it wrong the first time. You're Jill? Come on in. 
JILL (entering) Thank you. 
The wife comes back into the front hall. 
WIFE I've written the number of the restaurant on the notepad by the phone. (to Doctor) Zip me up, will you please? (to Jill) If we aren't home in two hours, it means we've decided to go on to a movie and won't be back until after midnight. Is that all right? 
JILL Sure. 
DOCTOR (helping wife on with her coat) I've told my service to pick up any calls coming in to my office phone. 
WIFE The children are asleep upstairs -- first door on your left at the top of the landing. They're both just getting over a cold -- so try not to wake them. 
JILL Okay. 
WIFE Do you have any questions? 
Jill shakes her head. 
WIFE We have to go now. We're late. 
They cross to the front door and begin to exit. 
DOCTOR Make yourself at home. The refrigerator's loaded. 
WIFE (pulling doctor through the door) Goodbye. 
JILL I've got a lot of work to do. I don't want you coming over! 
Long pause. 
NANCY (O.S.) You know what your problem is, Jill, is you're so straight. I really mean that. You go to a private school, you wear a bra. No one can have a good time with you! (beat) You know, Billy asked me to go out with him this weekend, and I was really really tempted because I like Billy... a lot... as much as you do. But I told him I couldn't, that I didn't think it was right because you were my friend -- 
JILL You are my friend. 
Pause. 
NANCY (O.S.) Yeah. I guess so. 
JILL Listen, just give Billy the number here, but don't tell him I told you to. Okay? 
Pause. 
NANCY (O.S.) Okay. I've got to go now. 
JILL Okay, Nancy. Bye. And thank you. 
NANCY (O.S.) Yeah. Bye. 
Jill makes a face at the phone and hangs up. She tries to go back to her homework, but she cannot. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER 
Jill is working now, diligently. The phone rings. She picks it up. 
JILL Hello? 
There is a brief pause; then the line goes dead and a dial tone cuts in. Jill hangs up and goes back to work. 
Pause. 
The phone rings again. Jill picks it up. 
JILL Billy?... 
A VOICE speaks on the other end of the phone. 
DUNCAN (O.S.) Have you checked the children? 
JILL What? 
The line goes dead. Dial tone. Jill hangs up and goes right back to work. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER 
Jill sits at the table as before, doing her homework, smoking a cigarette. The phone rings. Jill picks it up. 
JILL Hello? 
DUNCAN (O.S.) Have you checked the children? 
JILL Mrs. Mandrakis? 
The line goes dead. Dial tone. Jill hangs up and looks off into space, thinking. 
O.S. we hear a faint rattling noise from somewhere in the house. Jill hears it too. She stubs out her cigarette, gets up from the table and walks out of the living room. 
INT. HALLWAY 
Jill enters the hallway and pauses. Then she starts walking slowly down the hall to the kitchen door. 
Again the rattling noise O.S., only louder this time. Jill stops dead, listens, then continues forward even more cautiously. 
INT. KITCHEN 
As Jill enters. She cannot find the lightswitch, so she stands in the darkness listening. Again the rattle, very close now. Jill turns her head sharply, then walks to the refrigerator and opens it. It is only the automatic icemaker creating the rattle. 
JILL That's right. 
SACKER (O.S.) Has he threatened you? 
JILL No. 
SACKER (O.S.) Has he been using obscene language? 
JILL No. He just keeps calling me. Sometimes he doesn't say anything. 
SACKER (O.S.) There's really nothing we can do about it down here. Is the phone listed in your name? 
JILL No, I'm just the babysitter. 
SACKER (O.S.) It's probably just some weirdo. The city's full of them. Believe it or not, we get reports like this every night. It's nothing to worry about. 
JILL Oh... 
SACKER (O.S.) Have you tried whistling? 
JILL What? 
SACKER (O.S.) If you can find a good loud whistle somewhere in the house, blow it into the phone hard, next time he calls. Probably break his eardrum. He won't bother you after that. 
JILL No, I... You're probably right. It's nothing to worry about. 
SACKER (O.S.) Or you could just take your phone off the hook. 
JILL No, the people I'm babysitting for might try to reach me. 
SACKER (O.S.) Well, as I say, there's nothing we can really do to help you down here. 
JILL Okay. Thank you. 
SACKER (O.S.) You bet. Goodnight. 
JILL Goodnight. 
Jill hangs up. After thinking for a moment, she tries a couple of ways of whistling as loud as she can, but frustrated and feeling foolish, she soon gives up. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER 
Jill is sitting in an armchair facing the TV set. The TV is on, but she is bored. She runs through several channels, then gets up and turns the TV off. 
She looks around and moves aimlessly back to the table, but O.S. a dog is barking and she is drawn to the window. A car passes outside, its lights reflecting off the window and Jill's face. 
Then the phone rings. Jill moves quickly from the window to the table and answers the phone. 
JILL Hello? 
Pause. 
DUNCAN (O.S.) Why haven't you checked the children? 
Stunned, Jill hangs up the phone. She turns and goes slowly back to the window. She pulls the shutters closed in front of the window. Then she walks out of the living room. 
INT. FRONT HALL 
Jill goes to the front door, turns the bolt and draws the chain across the door. Then she starts to go upstairs. 
The phone rings. She stops halfway up the stairs. She turns and comes back down the stairs to answer the phone, but then thinks better of it. She sits on the bottom step and lets the phone ring and ring... 
Finally, it stops. Jill gets up and heads into the living room. 
INT. LIVING ROOM 
Jill goes to the table, picks up the phone and dials... 
SACKER (O.S.) Seventh Precinct, Sergeant Sacker. 
JILL I called you before... about the man who keeps calling me? 
CLIFFORD Yes. Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not this week, but I'll find him. 
MASTER He could be anywhere by now. 
CLIFFORD I don't think so... because he's a foreigner. He'll come back to the city. After six years in confinement, it's the only place that's familiar to him. That's important. 
Pause. 
MASTER A man murders two children in cold blood. A jury declares him insane. How could such a person not be? 
Clifford lowers his eyes, doesn't answer. 
MASTER He is sent to a state mental institution where the security is... less than perfect. And he escapes. It... it isn't fair. 
The master of the house leans way forward over his desk, and his face comes out of the shadows and into the light. It is Dr. Mandrakis. 
He seems much older. His complexion is pallid. His eyes stare out from beneath his brow like a wounded animal hiding in a dark cave. 
MANDRAKIS A thing like that should never be allowed to happen again. 
CLIFFORD I couldn't agree with you more. 
They look at each other for a long moment of acknowledgment. Then Mandrakis stands up with a sigh. 
MANDRAKIS Go ahead then. My accountant will contact you. 
Clifford stands and they shake hands. 
CLIFFORD Thank you. (beat) How is Mrs. Mandrakis? 
MANDRAKIS She is... unable to have any more children. 
CLIFFORD I'm sorry. Please give her my best. 
MANDRAKIS Of course. 
Clifford turns to go. 
INT. MANSION - STAIRCASE & ENTRANCE HALL 
As Clifford finds his own way down the stairs and out the front door. 
A WOMAN watches Clifford leave from the back of the staircase. It is Mrs. Mandrakis. As with her husband, the change in her is remarkable. She is now a brooding, barren woman. 
O.S. the front door closes. Clifford is gone. Mrs. Mandrakis walks around the front of the stairs and begins slowly ascending them. 
The houseboy silently steps into the entrance hall from a side door and watches her. 
CUT TO: 
INT. A HALLWAY - MENTAL INSTITUTION - DAY 
A male PATIENT wearing green, institutional pajamas and slippers shuffles slowly up the hall. His movement is catatonic, unfocused. 
Canned Musak faintly underscores the scene. 
MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Curt Duncan isn't going to run right out and kill more children. I'm not worried about that. 
ANGLE ON CLIFFORD 
Standing in the doorway of an office, facing into the hall, watching the patient. 
MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) We had him for six years... under continuous therapy, some of it rather forceful... 
ANGLE ON PATIENT 
Moving past CAMERA. He is really out of it. It is a depressing, vaguely unnerving sight. 
MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) ...and drugs... tranquilizers depressants, lithium... 
ANGLE ON CLIFFORD 
He turns and goes back into the office. 
REACTION SHOT - BARTENDER 
He gives a look as if to say, "Jesus, what a fuckin' weirdo". 
TWO SHOT - DUNCAN AND TRACY 
Pause. Duncan is still smiling at her. 
DUNCAN Hi. 
No response. 
DUNCAN What you been up to? 
TRACY (looking at him) My own business. (beat) Thanks for the light. Okay? 
The Englishman sits down beside her, but doesn't look at her. 
Tracy looks away too, determined to ignore him, not to let him get into her space. 
Duncan coughs. After a long moment, he turns back to her. 
DUNCAN Next round's on me. 
Tracy keeps her eyes straight ahead, acknowledging nothing. 
Pause. 
Duncan takes some money from his pocket and lays it on the bar, staring at her. Tracy turns to him: 
TRACY (annoyed) Listen, mister, I've got my own money. So, if you don't mind... 
She looks away again. Pause. 
DUNCAN After what I been through, I don't mind anything. 
Longer pause. 
DUNCAN See, that's the whole point. My mind... Your mind... Where do they fit in? You know what I mean? 
Tracy abruptly picks up her purse and moves down the bar away from him one seat, then another seat. 
ANGLE ON ELDERLY COUPLE 
They are watching this little spectacle with growing curiosity. 
ANGLE ON DUNCAN 
Still looking at her. By pointing at what she has, he orders two more drinks from the Bartender. When they arrive, he takes a big swallow from one, picks up the other, stands, moves down the bar and sits beside Tracy again. 
DUNCAN (setting her drink before her) Do you live around here? 
TRACY Get offa me!! 
REACTION SHOTS 
Even Bill now looks up from the pool table. His expression darkens. 
ANGLE ON BAR 
Tracy has clammed up -- her elbows on the bar, head between her elbows, arms covering her ears, hands clasped behind her neck. Duncan looks at her nervously and starts to talk again: 
DUNCAN (rapidly) Listen, I didn't mean nothin'. I don't live around here. See -- ? 
BILL (O.S.) I think the lady wants to be left alone. 
Duncan looks up. Bill enters the frame and stands in front of Tracy, confronting Duncan. 
CLOSEUP - DUNCAN 
Looking up at Bill, his eyes red, his gaze unsteady. 
WIDER ANGLE 
Behind her down the hall, Duncan appears. He watches her, starts to move silently forward. Tracy gets the door open, then turns and sees him. Duncan stops. 
TRACY Oh, it's you! (beat) What do you want? 
DUNCAN (moving forward) ...Came to apologize. I... 
TRACY Look, I'm the one who should be sorry. I didn't want that to happen. (she sees his face; shudders) Oh, God! Look at you. Are you all right. 
Duncan half shrugs, half smiles. Tracy edges into her door- way. Duncan stands opposite her. 
DUNCAN I'm new in town. Don't know anybody... 
TRACY (uncomfortable) Where're you from? 
DUNCAN (coughs) New York. Ever been there? 
TRACY Sure. Sure I've been there. 
They look at each other. Duncan coughs again. 
DUNCAN Kind of a mean place to be. Everyone cold, unfriendly... 
Inside Tracy's apartment, the telephone rings. Tracy turns vaguely, indecisively, and goes to answer it. 
TRACY (over her shoulder) Excuse me. 
She disappears into the apartment. O.S. she picks up the ringing phone. 
TRACY (O.S.) Hello?... 
INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT 
As she sits with the telephone. 
TRACY (nervous) ...No, I just got in... I don't know if I can... Listen, I can't talk now. Can I call you back?... Okay... Goodbye. 
She hangs up the phone, stands and turns back toward the door. Duncan is standing right behind her. 
DUNCAN I'm not from New York, actually. But I'm very, very far from home. 
He sits down. 
TRACY Look, you can't come in here. 
Duncan looks at her for a moment, then looks about the apartment. 
DUNCAN (mumbling) I thought we might get some coffee. Can I buy you -- ? 
TRACY I don't think so. 
DUNCAN Someplace nearby? 
TRACY Not tonight. You'd better go. 
DUNCAN I got no place to go. 
TRACY (anxious) You can't -- 
DUNCAN Just, just a little coffee? 
TRACY Maybe tomorrow. 
DUNCAN Okay, tomorrow. When? 
TRACY I said maybe. I don't know. (beat) Listen, I'm sorry about this afternoon. I really am. All right? That was my boyfriend on the phone. He's coming over. So please leave. Now. 
Duncan doesn't move. He smiles at her. 
DUNCAN I like you. 
TRACY (her voice rising) Look, do you want me to call the cops? 
DUNCAN (standing) It's okay. It's okay. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Clifford looks up from the pad to a bar he has pulled up in front of -- the bar Duncan was in. It bears the address Clifford has just underlined. Clifford gets out of his car and walks up to the bar. A "Closed" sign is displayed in the window. Clifford knocks on the door. After a moment, Hank opens the door. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAUNDROMAT - DAY 
There are only a few CUSTOMERS sitting around, waiting for their wash. A BUM is stretched out on his back across one of the tables like a corpse awaiting autopsy. This is CHEATER. 
A MAINTENANCE MAN in grey work clothes enters from the back. He opens a broom closet, takes out a bucket and mop and rolls them toward the front of the laundromat. He stops at Cheater's table and shakes him hard. 
MAINTENANCE MAN Okay, man, move it out. Let's go. 
CHEATER Wha -- ? 
Cheater sits up and starts to pull himself together. An OLD WOMAN sitting against the wall points down one of the aisles of washing machines and says to the maintenance man: 
OLD WOMAN There's another one down there. 
The maintenance man goes to the end of the aisle and looks down into the nook created by the absence of one of the washing machines. 
MAINTENANCE MAN Hey! 
He nudges at whatever's inside the nook with his foot. 
MAINTENANCE MAN (nudging again) Come on, bright eyes. Wake up. Wake -- Jesus Christ! What happened to you? 
ANGLE ON NOOK 
As Curt Duncan raises his head into the light and looks up at the maintenance man. Overnight, his face has swollen considerably and a bright yellow and purple discoloring around his bruises has emerged. 
MAINTENANCE MAN (O.S.) You get hit by a truck or what? 
He bends over and helps pull Duncan to his feet. 
WIDER ANGLE 
As the maintenance man guides Duncan to the door. 
MAINTENANCE MAN I'm sorry, man, but you can't stay in here. Go out to the park, lay in the sunshine. You'll feel better. Okay? 
Duncan goes out the door. The maintenance man turns and sees Cheater stretched out again on the table. 
MAINTENANCE MAN God bless it! Hey! 
He pulls Cheater off the table and pushes him to the door. 
MAINTENANCE MAN Out. Out. Out. Out. Out. 
EXT. LAUNDROMAT 
As Cheater is pushed out onto the sidewalk. 
CHEATER (angry) All right! All right! 
He straightens his rags indignantly, then looks at Duncan and grins. 
CHEATER Whaddya say, pardner. I'm dry as a bone. You got any money? 
Duncan looks at Cheater distrustfully and shakes his head. 
CHEATER You neither, huh? (with a laugh) My name is Morgan, but it ain't J.P. Guess I better go to work. Take 'er easy now, pardner. 
Cheater shuffles off in one direction. Duncan turns and goes in the other. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT - DAY 
A knock at the front door. After a moment, Tracy comes into the front hallway and, crossing to the door, stubs her toe on the open closet door. She swears under her breath and angrily slams the closet door shut. Then, grabbing her injured toe, she hops to the front door. 
TRACY Who is it? 
Sound over: knocking on a door. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BAR - DAY 
Clifford is standing at the door. The "Closed" sign still hangs in the window. The door opens, and Hank sticks his head out. 
HANK You again? 
CLIFFORD What are your hours tonight? 
HANK No hours. Bar's closed on Mondays. 
CLIFFORD I want you to be open if that's possible. 
HANK (closing the door) No way. Monday's my night off. Come back tomorr... 
Clifford violently pushes the door open. The bartender backs off, surprised. 
CLIFFORD (through clenched teeth) This is tomorrow! Now what are your hours? 
CUT TO: 
INT. LT. GARBER'S OFFICE - DAY 
Garber is sitting behind his desk as Clifford walks in. 
GARBER (looking up) Any luck? 
CLIFFORD I've come to say goodbye, and thank you. 
GARBER You found him? 
CLIFFORD I think so. 
GARBER Where? 
Pause. 
CLIFFORD From here on, I go it alone. 
GARBER What's the point of chancing it, Cliff? We'll let you take the credit. 
CLIFFORD No. 
Pause. Clifford sits down. 
CLIFFORD I'm going to kill him, Charlie. 
Garber leans forward in his chair and stares at Clifford. A long moment passes. A button on the lieutenant's phone lights up and the intercom buzzes. Garber doesn't even look down at it. The button flashes on and off, on and off. Finally it stops. 
CLIFFORD The closer I get to this guy, the more I... It gets to me. I don't know... 
GARBER I think you'd better go on home, Cliff. You've fallen in. 
CLIFFORD No. Not this time. This is the case that makes up for a whole career. If you can't understand it now, you will in a few years. 
Pause. Garber considers another tack and follows it. 
GARBER What part does money play in all this? Play straight with me. 
Clifford is stunned by the question, but he tries to be casual. 
CLIFFORD (shrugging) For what I'm being paid, it's not out of line. 
GARBER Who's hired you for this? 
Clifford glares at his friend and doesn't answer. 
GARBER (cynically) So you're a hitman now. 
CLIFFORD (passionately) He murdered two kids in cold blood. You were there, too. 
EXT. CITY STREETS - DUSK 
A series of shots of BUMS, "homeless persons", hanging out, in alleys, in the doorways of old buildings, sitting on the sidewalk in front of liquor stores. 
Then we see Duncan, alone but looking no different from the others. He is panhandling PASSERSBY, without much success. We see him fall into a fit of coughing that incapacitates him for several seconds. He's obviously getting sicker. 
We lose sight of Duncan as our MONTAGE continues. We see Clifford talking to a BUM, then another. He is passing the time combing the streets in the neighborhood of the bar. 
PARK - DUSK 
A handful of BUMS are sitting together on the grass passing a bottle in a brown paper bag. Duncan is not among them, but Cheater is there, sitting at the end of the line. 
CAMERA PANS from one bum to the next as the bottle is passed. By the time it gets to Cheater, it is empty. Cheater looks as if he's about to cry like a baby when a hand enters the frame from the other side -- the hand holding out to Cheater a full bottle of wine. Cheater takes the bottle and looks up gratefully... to see John Clifford standing beside him. 
CHEATER Well! I can't say much for your protocol, but your timing's dead on. Here's to you, pardner. 
Cheater takes a long drink, then passes the bottle back down the line. 
CLIFFORD (to all the bums) I'm looking for an old buddy of mine, English fella. Name's Crazy Curt. Any of you guys seen him? 
Nobody responds. 
CLIFFORD I owe him some money. 
CHEATER Aaahh. Show me an honest man... 
CLIFFORD (gesturing) Stands about so. Brown hair. Face kind of banged up. Was in an accident. 
CHEATER Oh, yeah? I was just with that guy, not more'n an hour ago. Looked bad. Crazy Curt, huh? 
CLIFFORD Where? 
Cheater scratches his head, and glances anxiously down the line. 
CHEATER Hell, I can't remember. Prob'bly see him again though. Tell you what. You leave the money with me, I'll see he gets it... as a favor to you. 
Clifford shakes his head. 
CLIFFORD I have to talk to him. 
CHEATER Whatsa matter? You don't trust me? I'll have you know I used to be a college professor. We can work together. 
Clifford stands to go. The bottle comes back to Cheater, three-quarters down. 
CLIFFORD Sure. Keep the bottle. I'll be back. 
CHEATER "Long life to the grape! For when summer is flown, The age of our nectar Shall gladden our own." That's Shelley, you know. 
Clifford is gone. Cheater takes a long drink and almost forgets that Clifford was ever there. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CLIFFORD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Clifford is "suiting up" for his night's work. He is dressed casually -- blue jeans, shirt open at the neck, sports jacket, Adidas running shoes. He looks at himself in the mirror, is satisfied. Then he picks up from the dresser two awl-like instruments with short handles and long, glistening tapered needlepoints -- his weapons. He slides them into a leather sheath inside his jacket and turns to go. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. BAR - NIGHT 
It is lit up inside. The bar is open for business. Across the street in a dark space between two buildings, Duncan is waiting, watching the front door of the bar to see who comes out. 
INT. BAR 
The place is empty but for Hank who half watches the television over the bar, and Tracy who sits alone in a corner. Several moments pass as both of them sit and wait. 
Then, the front door starts to swing open. Someone is coming in. Tracy and Hank both glance nervously toward the door. 
A MAN'S head peeks in. He is somewhere in his forties, a regular customer. 
CUSTOMER Hey, Hank, what're you doing open tonight? 
HANK (relaxing) Trying to make a buck. 
INT. FRONT HALL 
Tracy goes up to the closet with her coat. The door is closed. She opens it. She hangs up her coat and closes the door again. Then she turns and starts walking out of the hallway to the living room. 
As she is rounding the corner into the living room, she walks right into Duncan. She barely has time to gasp before he clamps his hand over her mouth and pushes her against the wall. 
DUNCAN (urgent whisper) I just have to talk to you. (pathetically) I want you to be my friend. 
As she isn't struggling, he starts to loosen up on her. 
DUNCAN Please... 
He takes his hand away from her mouth, lets go of her, and slowly, cautiously steps back. Tracy looks at him for a breathless moment, her eyes wild with fear. Then she screams. 
Duncan jumps back, stunned, frightened and confused. Tracy doesn't move. She just keeps screaming hysterically. 
EXT. STREET 
Tracy's screams carry out into the night as Clifford races across the street and into the apartment building. 
INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT 
Duncan runs to a window, throws it open and climbs out onto the fire escape. 
INTERCUT - APARTMENT STAIRS AND FIRE ESCAPE 
As Clifford bounds up the stairs, flight after flight, and Duncan tears down the fire escape. 
INT. SIXTH FLOOR 
The screaming has stopped when Clifford reaches Tracy's door. He grabs the doorknob and heaves himself against the door. It's bolted shut. 
Clifford pulls one of the needles from his jacket and hammers it into the lock. The bolt springs and Clifford runs into the apartment. 
INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT 
As Clifford bursts in. Tracy gestures toward the window. Clifford runs to it and sticks his head out. 
POV - CLIFFORD 
Duncan is gone. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Clifford runs to a window on another wall and looks out onto the street. 
POV - CLIFFORD 
No sign of the Englishman. 
BACK TO SCENE 
Clifford runs out of the apartment, yanking his needle from the lock as he passes the door, and charges back down the stairs. 
Tracy moves to the door and closes it. She is breathing heavily. 
O.S. we hear the angry sizzle of coffee spilling onto the hot stove, as Tracy goes to get it. 
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING 
Clifford comes out, looks around and moves rapidly up the street. 
EXT. A STREET 
Duncan is hurrying along, dodging in and out of people, trying to move quickly but not draw attention to himself... 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET 
Clifford is travelling along the sidewalk, crossing the street, looking everywhere... 
EXT. ALLEYWAY 
Duncan is running up the alley. He comes to a stop beside some piled up trash cans. He leans against the brick wall of the building, huffing and puffing. He is frightened, but he feels safe for now. He slowly slides down the wall to the ground... 
Suddenly, we cut back to a WIDE SHOT of the room. The floor is crawling with rats, hundreds of them. The "chit-chit" rises to practically a roar as the boy, alone on top of the bed, begins to wail. 
The room seems to darken, and the boy becomes just a little white speck in it. The focus is turned. The picture becomes a black and white blur. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT - THE PRESENT 
At first all that can be seen is a white blur against a black screen. The previous sound of a boy crying increases. Then the blur grows larger, coming more into focus as the entire screen image moves toward normal definition. Finally, we know we are back in the alleyway, that it is night, and that the white blur is actually a little BOY lost, sobbing uncontrollably. 
CLOSEUP - DUNCAN 
Awakening to the scene, coming back to reality. He is confused. 
WIDER ANGLE ON DUNCAN AND BOY 
The boy continues sobbing, moving about in little circles. Duncan, amazed at what he sees, slowly crawls out from the wall on his hands and knees, crawls toward the weeping child, staring at it with a strange look on his face. 
Suddenly the boy stops crying and looks at Duncan quizzically, hesitantly. They are less than a foot apart, almost face to face. Together they form a kind of frozen tableau. Something close to sympathy crosses the killer's expression, and the boy, likewise, achieves a faint sense of recognition. 
Then, just as suddenly, the boy starts wailing again and he runs off down the alleyway. Duncan watches him disappear. Then he slowly pulls himself to his feet. 
EXT. STREET 
Clifford is coming up the sidewalk. As Clifford crosses the entrance to an alleyway, the boy comes running out and almost collides with him. Clifford grabs the boy and looks down at him. Then he passes the wailing child off on a nearby PEDESTRIAN and runs up into the alley. 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET 
Duncan is hurrying along the sidewalk. Something makes him look up. 
POV - DUNCAN 
He is looking at a neon "Jesus Saves" sign above the doorway to an inner city mission. 
BACK ON DUNCAN 
As he stares at the sign. 
DUNCAN (O.S.) Hey, Crazy Curt! 
Duncan turns to see Cheater elatedly hobbling up to him. 
CHEATER Hail fellow well met, and all that jazz. It's our lucky day! (taking Duncan by the arm) A friend of your's got money for you. We got to get back to the park and meet him. 
Duncan pulls his arm free. 
CHEATER C'mon. He'll be comin' for you, Crazy Curt. S'got some money. (reaching for Duncan's arm) We'll get us a little joy juice. 
Duncan pulls free again and heads toward the mission. 
CHEATER C'mon! Hey!! You really are crazy! C'mon! 
Duncan enters the mission and Cheater stands out on the sidewalk for a moment, bitterly frustrated. 
CHEATER "Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow, you cataracts and hurricanoes, spout till you have drench'd our steeples and drown'd the cocks!" 
Several PEDESTRIANS stop and gape at this sudden outburst. 
EXT. ANOTHER STREET 
Clifford comes out of a derelict hotel, looks up and down the street and hurries off, not giving up the chase. 
INT. MISSION - MOMENTS LATER 
A MAN is leading Duncan to the bathroom. Duncan enters slowly and goes to one of the wash basins where there is an old razor blade and a can of shaving cream. Duncan picks up the razor for a moment and looks at it. He is lost in thought. Then he sets it down and turns on the tap water. 
He glances at himself in the mirror and is suddenly transfixed by his own image. He looks deeply into the mirror for several seconds. Then he starts to cry, and having begun, a flood of emotions comes pouring out of him. He drops to his knees. 
The man comes running back into the bathroom. He holds Duncan and helps pull him back to his feet. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. STREET - NIGHT 
INT. BELL TOWER 
Duncan faces a spiraling stone staircase. He has no choice but to climb them, higher and higher, the sound of Clifford's angry footsteps always coming up behind him. 
Finally, Duncan can climb no higher. He is at the top of the bell tower. A lanceted opening in the stone wall ahead of him looks out over the narrow shaft of the tower. Above him are the huge iron bells. A rope hangs down from the bells, dangling all the way down the shaft, forty or fifty feet to the floor of the church. 
Clifford is bounding up the last flight of steps to get him. Duncan has little choice. He is trapped. Just before Clifford reaches him, Duncan leaps out into the shaft and catches the bell rope. 
The bell starts to clang as Duncan, hanging in mid air, swings back and forth within the narrow shaft. Clifford leans way out through the lancet window and takes a swipe at Duncan, but the madman is just beyond his reach and hurriedly climbing down the rope. 
Clifford reaches out and tries to grab at the rope. At last, he gets it, and he shakes it violently to get Duncan to lose his grip and be dashed against the stone floor below. 
But Duncan holds firm, climbing ever downward. The bell continues to clang, sending its alarm out into the night. Then Clifford braces himself and slowly, laboriously begins to haul up on the rope. 
Clifford gains momentum until Duncan is being pulled up faster than he is climbing down. Still twenty feet off the ground, Duncan lets go of the rope and plummets to the hard stone floor. 
Then PEOPLE come rushing into the church, awakened by the commotion of the bells. Duncan rolls into the shadows and drags himself out a side door, while Clifford plans his own escape from the bell tower. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ALLEYWAY NEAR CHURCH - NIGHT 
Clifford runs up the alleyway, looks around and finally realizes he's lost his prey. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. ANOTHER ALLEYWAY 
Duncan is hidden deep in the shadows of a nook between two buildings, catching his breath. CAMERA MOVES IN on him, and we see him looking the craziest he's ever been. He shakes uncontrollably and begins to mumble, softly at first, then getting louder. He's falling back into the grips of Guy du Marraux. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. CITY - MORNING 
A. All is still and quiet as soft, warm sunlight pours into the dirty streets and alleyways. In the background, the bell tower of the church rises above the skyline. 
B. We see a SHOT of the park -- all the bums are asleep. 
C. Then a SHOT of the mission -- its front door open, the sidewalk empty. 
D. Then the bar, where the same peaceful mood prevails. 
E. Then the alleyway where we last saw Curt Duncan. Now he is gone. 
F. Then the exterior of Tracy's apartment building. Clifford's car is parked out front. 
TRACY (O.S.) I used to see my two kids every weekend. They lived in a nice house with their father, outside the city. 
CUT TO: 
INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT 
Tracy and Clifford are sitting at a small table in the kitchen, looking haggard, drinking coffee. 
TRACY Now... it's been years. They're grown up. 
They look at each other. Clifford is a sympathetic listener. 
TRACY I look at where I am now. I know I could've done better, but... it's too late for that. 
CLIFFORD (quietly) I know. 
Pause. 
TRACY Well, you've got to keep looking, I suppose. 
Taking his cue, Clifford slowly rises. 
CLIFFORD I don't think he'll come back here. 
Tracy looks up at him questioningly, wishing she could feel as sure about it as he does. 
CLIFFORD (extending his hand) Thanks... for all your help. 
The mother turns around. It is Jill Johnson! 
JILL (smiling) Well, look what the wind blew in! 
CAMERA MOVES IN on her as she comes forward, bends down, kisses Stevie, and picks up June. Jill looks older, more mature, but still very pretty. She is Mrs. John Lockhart now, and has left her memories of the past behind her. 
STEVIE Mommy, what's for dinner? Could we have hamburgers? 
JILL (teasing) Is that all you ever want? 
A wall phone in the kitchen starts to ring. Stevie goes to answer it. 
STEVIE Hello? 
JOHN (O.S.) (surprised) Hey, how's my little tiger? 
It is JOHN LOCKHART on the phone. 
STEVIE Daddy, Junie threw my baseball down the street; and I can't find it! 
JOHN (O.S.) Well, we'll look for it real hard later. Let me talk to mommy. 
Jill, by this time, has come to the phone. She is still holding June. 
STEVIE Okay. Bye, daddy. 
Stevie hands the phone to Jill. 
JILL Hi. 
JOHN Hi, babe -- whaddya say you put on a sexy dress, and I take you out to dinner tonight? 
Jill is very happy about this. 
JILL Great... what's the occasion? 
JOHN (teasing) Just a little surprise. 
JILL What? 
JOHN I'm leaving here now; be home in half an hour. 
JILL Okay, see ya. 
JOHN Bye, babe. 
As Jill hangs up the phone, Stevie pipes up O.S. 
STEVIE (O.S.) Mommy, is Daddy gonna get me a new baseball? 
CUT TO: 
EXT. DR. MANDRAKIS' HOUSE - NIGHT 
Clifford's car is parked in the driveway, and we see him getting out. He goes to the front door -- the porch light is on and perhaps one other lamp somewhere inside the otherwise dark house. He rings the bell, waits, rings again... 
Finally the door is opened by the Houseboy. 
HOUSEBOY Dr. and Mrs. Mandrakis are out of town. 
CLIFFORD For how long? 
HOUSEBOY Three more weeks. 
Pause. 
CLIFFORD It's just as well. Will you be here? 
HOUSEBOY Yes. 
Clifford takes a business card from his pocket and gives it to the Houseboy. 
CLIFFORD Here. Call if you need me. 
Jill shoves the coat into his stomach. Smiling, he takes the coat and dutifully helps her on with it. 
CAROL Have a good time. 
JILL Thanks, Carol. 
JOHN (pulling her out the door) Bye, Carol. 
CAROL Goodbye. 
JILL Goodbye. 
CUT TO: 
EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
John and Jill walk to the station wagon in the driveway as Carol shuts the front door in the background. Just before Jill gets into the car, she takes a look back at the house -- there is a moment's hesitance, and then she gets in the car. 
INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 
Carol picks up the phone and carries it into the living room with her. As she does it, we see lying on the phone table, the newspaper clipping with Jill's picture, and headline: "Jill Lockhart Chairs Community UNICEF Drive." 
She puts the phone down, then her books, then herself. She dials a number. Her BOYFRIEND answers. 
BOYFRIEND (O.S.) Hello? 
CAROL Hi. It's me. 
BOYFRIEND (O.S.) Oh, hi. 
CAROL Can you come over? 
BOYFRIEND (O.S.) I can't. I really have a lot of work to do. 
CAROL (disappointed) Ohhh... 
CUT TO: 
INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
An Italian Restaurant. Quiet music, soft lights, red and white checkered tablecloths, candles, a smokey and seductive atmosphere. 
DOLLY with a LATIN WAITER carrying a huge tray of food over- head. He passes right by the table where Jill and John are sitting. John watches him take the food to someone else. 
JOHN (reaching for a breadstick) I've eaten enough breadsticks to turn into a pretzel. 
JILL John, tell me about the surprise. 
JOHN Oh, yeah. Brace yourself. 
JILL I'm braced. 
JOHN Good. I got the sack today. 
JILL What sack? 
JOHN The can... I was fired! 
JILL Oh, sure. 
JOHN You don't believe me? 
JILL No, I don't believe you. 
JOHN Well, Wally did call me into his office today. And he did tell me I didn't have my old job anymore. 
JILL (getting excited) John, what did you get? 
JOHN Are you ready for this? 
JILL (guessing) District Sales Manager! 
JOHN Regional! 
As John runs up and drops to his knees beside her. She is shaking and sobbing uncontrollably. 
JOHN Jill, what's happening? What's wrong? 
JILL It was him! Somebody call the police! Help me! 
Other PEOPLE have crowded around and are making urgent noises now about calling the police, an ambulance, etc. John tries to cut through the confusion and anxiety. 
JOHN Wait a minute! Just hold on! Sweetheart, what was him? What are you talking about? 
JILL That man... Curt Duncan... He's home again! He's got our children! 
JOHN He was on the phone? 
Jill nods. 
John grabs the telephone and quickly dials a number. The crowd tries to quiet down, as much to hear for themselves as to let John talk. The phone rings and rings. Finally... 
CAROL Hello? 
JOHN Hello, Carol, it's Mr. Lockhart. What's going on over there? 
CAROL Nothing's going on. 
JOHN Is everything all right? 
CAROL Yes, there's nothing -- 
JOHN Are you sure? 
Pause. 
CAROL Everything's fine. Why? What's --? 
JOHN Carol, listen to me very carefully. If there's a man in the house, if there's any reason why you can't talk to me right now, just answer yes to me over the phone. That's all. If there's any danger of any kind, just say yes. 
Long pause. They wait for her answer. Jill is listening into the receiver now, too. 
CAROL I don't understand what's happening. What man in the house? 
Jill is confused. John breathes a guarded sigh of relief. Jill takes the phone. 
JILL Carol, it's Mrs. Lockhart. Answer me truthfully. When was the last time you looked in on the children? 
CAROL About forty-five minutes ago. Everything's fine. They were fast asleep. 
Jill gives her husband a look. John takes the phone again. 
JOHN Carol, I'm sorry about all the hysterics. We're leaving the restaurant now. We'll explain everything when we get home. Before we hang up, could you do just one more thing for me, please? 
CAROL What? 
JOHN Would you go upstairs and, and check on the children for me? 
Jill is violently shaking her head. John silences her with a gesture. 
CAROL Sure. Hold on. 
Carol O.S. puts the phone down. Then there is silence on the other end. The crowd of people around Jill and John begin to shuffle and murmur. John tries to keep them quiet while listening into the phone. 
Then TWO POLICEMEN come forward through the crowd. One of them kneels down to John and Jill who are still on the floor. 
POLICEMAN #1 What seems to be the problem here, sir? 
JOHN (whispering) Officer, I'm John Lockhart. Just a second please, and I'll explain everything. 
JILL (whispering to Policeman) I'm Jill Johnson, the babysitter seven years ago with the child killer. 
This means nothing to Policeman #1. 
JOHN The babysitter. The guy got into the house and killed the two children upstairs. 
Policeman #2 kneels down now. 
JOHN If I ever get my hands on the guy that made that call... 
JILL John, it wasn't a prank. I know that voice. 
JOHN He disguised it though, didn't he? Same as before? 
JILL I know that voice. 
Pause. 
JILL How can we just sit here? 
John turns and moves over beside her. 
JOHN Look, we promised never to talk about this. 
REACTION SHOT of Jill. She is shocked. 
JOHN What are we supposed to do? Leave town? Take the kids and lock ourselves up somewhere? Come on... Let's get a good night's sleep, and in the morning we can rethink this whole thing. 
JILL Nothing has to be rethought. And I'm not about to fall asleep. 
JOHN Try to relax, honey. I'm here. We're both here. The house is locked up. The cops'll be just outside all night long. We're safe now. 
JILL That's what they told me before. 
John stands up and goes to his dresser. 
JOHN Okay. Look. If it'll make you feel any better... 
He takes a revolver from the dresser drawer and emphatically checks the action. Then he walks to his side of the bed and sets the pistol on his bedside table. 
JOHN I'll keep it right here beside me all night. You know I'm a light sleeper and a damn good shot. Are you satisfied? 
Pause. Jill tries to smile. 
JILL John, I'm sorry to be putting you through all this. 
JOHN Hey, you're not putting me through anything that you don't have to go through yourself. I'm with you all the way. Trust me. Okay? 
Jill nods. John leans forward and kisses her. 
JOHN That's my girl. 
He gets up and walks out of the room talking. 
JOHN (O.S.) Now try to relax. We'll get some sleep. You'll be surprised how differently things will look in the morning. 
JILL (complaining) Honey... 
JOHN (O.S.) What? 
JILL Not so loud. You're going to wake the children. 
John comes back into the bedroom with a glass of water and a couple of pills in his hand. 
JOHN (smiling) Naw. Those kids'd sleep through an earthquake. They're good kids. (handing her the pills and water) Here, take a couple of these. They're just what the doctor ordered. 
CLOSEUP - JILL 
As she takes the pills and swallows them, one at a time. 
JOHN (O.S.) You know, I read somewhere about this psychological thing called hysterical delusion or hysterical recall or something. It had to do with how an event from your past can sneak up on you sometimes and fool you when it's only just a memory. I don't know. We'll talk about it in the morning. Maybe there's someone we can see about that... 
CUT TO: 
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 
The lounge area in the back of the station. At one table, three OFFICERS are playing bridge. Garber with his back to CAMERA rounds out their game. 
At a nearby table closer to CAMERA, Policeman #1 is working on a crossword puzzle. POLICEMAN #3, sitting next to him, is reading a paperback novel. 
POLICEMAN #1 What's a word for "an outsider, of sorts"? 
INT. LOCKHART HOUSE - NIGHT 
A shot of the downstairs hall. All is dark and still, very still. 
INT. BEDROOM 
Jill is tossing in her sleep. John is fast asleep next to her, on his side facing away from her. Then, Jill wakes up. She is heavily sedated, groggy. She hardly knows where she is at first. 
She pulls herself up to a sitting position on the side of the bed. She tries to gather her wits. Then she gets up and walks slowly out of the room. 
FOLLOWING JILL 
Through the upstairs hallway, down the staircase and toward the kitchen. The darkness around her is ominous, threatening. 
She stops at the dining room window and looks out. On the street a patrol car slowly passes and disappears down the block. 
INT. KITCHEN 
Jill enters, turns on the light, opens a cupboard and takes out a glass. She goes to the refrigerator and opens it. Suddenly, the lights go out. 
Jill closes the refrigerator door and goes and turns on another light. Apparently, only a lightbulb has blown. Jill unscrews the burned-out bulb from its socket and throws it in the trash. 
She leaves the kitchen. 
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL 
Jill walks to a hall closet and opens it. A light comes on inside as she does so. A puzzled, half-startled expression comes onto her face. 
JILL'S POV 
Inside the closet, half the hangers with coats, etc., are on the floor. 
Sound over: A telephone being dialed. 
CUT TO: 
INT. CLIFFORD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 
Clifford has just finished dialing the phone. He waits, nothing happens. Then a strange, siren-like noise comes out of the telephone. Clifford listens, then hangs up. 
He picks up the .38 he has lying on the desk and idly starts flipping the cartridge chamber with one of his jimmy needles. After a moment, he lays the gun down and picks up the phone again, this time calling the OPERATOR. 
OPERATOR (O.S.) Operator. 
CLIFFORD Can you dial a local number for me? 
OPERATOR (O.S.) What is the number, please? 
CLIFFORD 
The operator dials. There is a pause. Then the same strange noise cuts in. 
CLIFFORD Operator, what does that mean? 
OPERATOR (O.S.) I'm sorry, sir, that line seems to be disconnected. 
CLIFFORD Why don't I get a recording? 
OPERATOR (O.S.) I don't know, sir. Maybe the number was just recently disconnected. Maybe there's a temporary malfunction in the wiring. Why don't you try it again in the morning? 
CLIFFORD Yeah, okay. Thanks. 
CUT TO: 
INT. LOCKHART HOME - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT 
Jill is walking down the hall to the children's bedroom. She opens the door. 
INT. CHILDREN'S BEDROOM 
As Jill quietly enters. The children are asleep. Jill goes to June and tucks her in. Then she walks over to Stevie's bed. He is sleeping, but with a Sugar Daddy in his hand. Jill looks down at him, again puzzled. She leans over, takes the Sugar Daddy and gently wakes him. 
JILL Stevie... Stevie... 
