WHILE SHE WAS OUT 
Written by 
Susan Montford 
Based on a short story by 
Edward Bryant 
5th draft December 20, 2006 
MAP GRIDS 
From the pages of a Thomas guide converge, overlap and re- configure across the screen. The endlessly ironic names of American suburbs parade before us, their violet territories marching forward like a bruise into dark green patches of forest and wilderness. 
Closer in on one last map grid which fades into a transparency of itself overlaid across the actual location of the suburb. The name of this housing development is "Pleasant Valley". The transparency fades out to reveal: 
EXT.   PLEASANT VALLEY BOULEVARD - EVENING 
From a sign reading "Pleasant Valley Dream Homes", a picture postcard boulevard of mini mansions curves into infinity. 
Each home is brand new. Each has the same size lawn, the same shrubs, the same satellite dish. Each has an indistinguishable car parked in the driveway. 
All the homes have Christmas decorations, Christmas trees with baubles, lights and Christmas stars sitting proudly at the top. The doors have Christmas wreaths. 
The sheen of a recent rainfall makes all the surfaces glimmer in the lights. 
We halt outside one house. 
EXT.   DELLAS'S HOUSE - EVENING 
This home too seems perfect until we notice the Christmas star has fallen from the top of the tree and lies reflecting itself in a puddle on the wet lawn. 
Suddenly we hear the sound of wings fluttering and see an owl among the branches of the Christmas tree. It rises from the tree then swoops down to the lawn where it sweeps a mouse from the grass. The owl then soars off, casting a magnified shadow of her wings across the house, and disappears with it's prey into the woods behind. 
Curtains part at a downstairs window. The silhouette of a man appears bathed in the blue glow of a computer screen. He draws the curtains once again and disappears. 
INT. DELLA'S HOUSE/ KENNETH'S MEDIA ROOM - EVENING 
We sneak between curtain and window ledge into a home office fitted out with a flat screen TV and a computer. 
Scene 3 Page 2 
KENNETH, a forty something ex-jock with a once handsome face, pours a beer into a crystal brandy glass. Kenneth's eyes are glued to the computer screen where stock numbers scroll endlessly down. He highlights a set of numbers and stands up abruptly from his chair elated. 
KENNETH Yes! 
Steps back onto a A CHILD'S DOLL, crushing it underfoot. His ebullient mood changes quickly. 
KENNETH (CONT'D) Damn! DELLA! 
The sound of footsteps are followed by the door opening. DELLA peers into the room. She's a diminutive blonde in her thirties with fine features and a fading Southern accent. She's pulling a coat on over a white shirt and jeans. 
She sees the broken doll. 
DELLA SHOOT, KENNETH! That's Tammi's favorite doll. 
She walks in, picks up the doll and tries to fix its squashed face. He turns back to the computer guiltily, takes a sip of beer. 
KENNETH You should just swear properly and get it over with. Do you think the kids don't know what you mean? 
Close up, his face is ruddy - the face of someone who drinks too much. He turns back towards her. She ignores him, continues to try fix the doll. His eyes linger on her coat. 
KENNETH (CONT'D) Going out again? What is it tonight? Auto Mechanics for Dummies? The bored housewives' reading group? 
He averts his eyes back to the screen then turns back to look at her once more. 
KENNETH (CONT'D) I got a new one for you. 
He smiles sardonically. 
Scene 3 Page 3 
KENNETH (CONT'D) Group therapy for women who always have the curse. There's a Tuesday night class at the Pleasant Valley Episcopalian. 
Kenneth clearly thinks he's funny. Della glares a warning at him and bites her lip to stop a vitriolic response escaping from her mouth. 
DELLA I'm going to the mall for wrapping paper. 
A trail of kids mess in the hallway behind Della catches Kenneth's eye. 
KENNETH What do you do all day, Della honey? Cause it sure isn't keeping house. This place is an eyesore. I'm mortgaged up to the eyeballs for this? 
INT. STAIRWAY - EVENING 
Della leaves the cookies at the bottom of the stairs and opens the front door. The TV blares out some action flick from Kenneth's ajar door. 
TITLE     ---   "WHILE SHE WAS OUT" 
EXT.    DELLA'S HOUSE - EVENING 
Della is met by a blast of cold evening air and the eerie silence of the suburbs. She closes the door softly behind her and rushes along the path to the driveway where the family's black Ford Explorer is parked. 
She CHIRPS the remote and quickly climbs in. 
INT.    FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Della inserts the key and turns it in the lock.    The car sputters in defiance against the cold night. 
DELLA Frick! 
The car sputters again. 
DELLA (CONT'D) C'MON... 
With a massive exertion, the car engine turns over and the vehicle starts. She sighs with relief. 
She turns the heat up high and warms her hands at the vent, pauses to look at her home through the car window. For a second, in an upstairs window, she sees a reflection of Tammi. 
She smiles, then looks at the house and lawn and the Christmas tree. She notices the fallen star, is about to get out of the car to retrieve it, but decides it's too cold. 
Scene 11Page 7 
A shadow creeps across her face as she pulls the stick into reverse and backs up. 
EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY BOULEVARD - EVENING 
We follow her as she backs up, pushes into drive and heads slowly down the boulevard. 
The road is empty. All the cars are neatly tucked away in their driveways and it looks like no one's out tonight. She makes a right turn onto. 
EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY CRESCENT - EVENING 
She follows the road as it curves around a long row of endlessly monotonous houses. In the distance, we can see the gates of Pleasant valley gated community. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
She slows down, rolls down her window and swipes a chub card against the security panel. The gates slowly open. She drives through. The gates close behind her. She rolls the window up and makes a left turn onto. 
EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING 
The road is wider and framed on either side by the high walls of gated communities. A Ford Explorer just like hers passes in the opposite direction. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Della smiles mysteriously, reaches into the glove compartment with her free hand. She pushes aside a bunch of car papers, a flare, pulls out a check wallet hidden underneath - her secret hiding place for: 
A nice pack of Marlboros. She smiles again - the smile of the secret smoker. She presses the cigarette lighter into the dashboard. 
The lighter pops out. She tips out a cigarette, sees a sticky note attached to the interior foil. Scrawled in messy handwriting are the words - YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO BE QUITTING DELLA HONEY. XOXO KENNETH. 
DELLA I'll get right on that Kenneth honey. AFTER you stop drinking. 
Scene 16Page 8 
She rips the note off, stuffs it in her purse, lights the cigarette. 
She inhales deeply.     We see the pleasure written across her face. 
EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING 
A few cars pass Della in the night. Their lights are like torches in the suburban wilderness. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER/ EXT. PLEASANT VALLEY DRIVE - EVENING 
There is the familiar ring of a cellular phone. Della has programmed one of those "oh so cute" recognizable tunes into it, like the "William Tell overture". 
Della holds the wheel with one hand and fumbles through her purse with the other. She eventually locates the phone. 
DELLA Hello? 
MARY (V.O.) Della, it's Mary Messina. 
Della rolls her eyes.     This is not a welcome call. 
DELLA Oh, hey. 
INT.   FORD EXPLORER - EVENING/ EXT CROSSROADS 
Della picks up the phone and pushes a few keys. She has not dialed enough to make a full phone call when we hear the phone RING on the other side. 
OPERATOR (V.O.) Cellular 411 connect. How may I direct your call? 
DELLA The Learning Academy. Spring Street. 
OPERATOR (V.O.) Please hold for that number. 
Della slows down for another red light. 
She's at a wide crossroads where the housing development abruptly ends and a wasteland of deforestation begins. 
A billboard for another new housing development announces: "GREEN STREET DREAM HOMES - Investment Opportunities". 
Waiting for the light at the opposite side of the road from Della is a car with an animal cadaver strapped to the roof. 
Della tries not to look at it. 
A recording breaks into the moment just as the light ahead changes to green. 
Scene 20Page 12 
OPERATOR (V.O.) (CONT'D) (recording) Press your pound key now to connect with your request. 
Della presses the pound key and drives straight ahead. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) Learning Academy, this is Meghan. 
DELLA Hi Meghan.     It's Della Myers. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) Oh hey. You calling about Spanish for Beginners? You know that Tom cancelled 'cause of New Year's. 
DELLA Yes I knew. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) Can you hold, I have another call? 
DELLA Okay. 
Frustrated, Della turns on the radio.    It is some innocuous local ad. 
LOCAL AD Pleasant Valley Dream Homes. The lowest crime rate in the US. Call 1- 800-SAFE. 
Della switches stations trying to find something she likes. She gives up and waits for Meghan to return. The car flashes past construction road signs. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) Sorry Della ... 
DELLA Can you leave word for Mike. I'm going to miss tomorrow's Mechanic's class. It's just the one time. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) Everyone misses that class at least once. 
Scene 20Page 13 
DELLA I guess some people find it boring. 
MEGHAN (V.O.) We'll see you the first week in January then? 
DELLA Yes you will...unless I run off and become an outlaw or something. 
Meghan giggles. We hear the familiar beep of another call coming in. 
DELLA (CONT'D) I have to go. 
MEGHAN Merry Christmas 
DELLA You too. 
Della clicks the phone over to the incoming call. 
DELLA (CONT'D) Hello? 
CASSIE (V.O.) Hi Della... it's Cassie. 
Cassie's voice is almost lost in the din of her surroundings. 
DELLA Where are you? Grand Central Station? 
CASSIE Hold on, I'll take the phone outside. 
A loud noise appears out of nowhere. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER/EXT. RAILWAY CROSSING - EVENING 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
For a second, Della contemplates turning around and leaving. 
The guy in the SUV behind her beeps. She steps on the gas. 
DELLA Okay, okay! 
Her car careens slowly down hill to the lot. 
EXT. MALL PARKING LOT/INT. FORD - EVENING 
The road spits her out in front of the Mall entrance where revellers and shoppers are entering and exiting. 
Della follows several cars down the first long row of parked cars. 
The asphalt is wet from the recent rainfall. Puddles gather in its dents and hollows. 
She passes car after densely parked car. There isn't a space in sight. She reaches the end of the row and indicates left, turns down the next row, ploughs through a rain puddle which splashes up onto a MOTHER who's walking her little GIRL and BOY back to their car. The woman shouts at Della. 
MOTHER Watch where you're going! 
Della rolls down her window. 
Scene 24Page 17 
DELLA Sorry! 
The Mother's weighed down with shopping bags. She glares at Della and drags her kids across the aisle in front of her. 
Della sighs, drives down the second aisle. 
An Escape midway down the row blocks traffic. It's waiting for a Subaru to pull out so it can take the spot. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
DELLA Lucky son of a ..... 
The Subaru exits the spot slowly. Della taps her impatient fingers against the steering wheel. 
EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING 
The Subaru pulls away and the Escape snaps into the empty space. 
Della continues her journey down to the end of the row. There are no spaces. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
It dawns on her that parking up close to the entrance just isn't going to happen. She takes the last puff from the cigarette burning out in the ashtray. 
EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING 
Using the side aisle she scoots past row three and four as they all flow one way. 
At the end of this row a confrontation is brewing. Several cars block each other. Horns blast. An angry DRIVER screams at another. 
ANGRY DRIVER If you think you're gonna steal my spot, think again, asshole! 
INT. FORD EXPLORER/EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING 
Della looks on for a moment at the confrontation. She grinds out the stub of her cigarette into the ashtray, slams it closed. 
Scene 29Page 18 
Della shakes her head and turns left into row five. Jesus! Are there really this many cars in Pleasant Valley? It's a brand new Mall and the only one around for miles but this is ridiculous. 
Della reaches the end of row five quickly. She guessed there wouldn't be a spot so she's driving faster. 
She notices a portly middle aged RENT-A-COP directing traffic ahead. She lowers her window. 
DELLA Hello? 
The Rent-a-Cop stops directing and approaches the car. 
RENT-A-COP Can I help you? 
DELLA Do you know where I can definitely find parking? 
RENT-A-COP There's nothing close by. Even the valet's backed up. You might want to try further out. 
He points off into the distance through the sea of cars. 
RENT-A-COP (CONT'D) But be willing to walk. 
Della arrives at the fountain. A piddling jet of dirty water gurgles from the mouth of a bored mermaid and streams down into the shallow pool full of nickels and dimes. She scans the crowd but there's no sign of Cassie. 
Della sits at the edge of the fountain. She checks her watch then checks out the people milling around in front of Victoria's Secret, where mannequins in skimpy festive underwear are propped seductively in the window displays. 
Still no sign of Cassie. She's about to make a wish and throw a quarter into the fountain when a Red Cross worker shakes her "Save the Children" tin at her. Della sticks the quarter into the tin instead. 
INT.   VICTORIA'S SECRET - EVENING 
Della wanders the aisles of festive colored undies watching men pick out slinky lingerie for their partners and women examine slim fit underpants and padded bras. 
She notices a pure silk black teddy, very classic, no frills. She lifts it from the rail and holds it against herself in front of the mirror, tries to imagine herself in it. 
A young SALES ASSISTANT approaches. 
VS SALES ASSISTANT It's pure silk, the last one in our classic black label collection. Would you like me to fix you a changing room? 
Della checks the size tag. It reads 36C, two sizes too big. And the price tag next to it. Ouch! It's expensive for Victoria's Secret. 
DELLA No thanks. Not my size. 
She gestures to her small boobs, smiles and hands the teddy to the sales assistant. She quickly leaves the shop. 
INT. MALL - EVENING 
Della checks one last time at the fountain for Cassie. She tries to dodge the crowd as she makes her way toward a generic coffee shop. Maybe Cassie will be there. 
Scene 39Page 22 
INT. COFFEE SHOP - EVENING 
Harried women and a few men, clutching bags full of gifts and impatient children, stand on line for their favorite drug. 
Della squeezes past them to look for Cassie. Every seat at every booth is full but there's no sign of her friend. 
Della joins the line. She finds herself biting at her nails, a bad habit since childhood. 
A woman in front of her places an order then moves on to the pick up area. Della moves up to the counter to where an OVERWEIGHT SALES ASSISTANT waits on her. 
DELLA A latte please? 
She notices some chocolate covered biscotti on the counter. 
DELLA (CONT'D) And a chocolate biscotti. 
She catches sight of herself in the mirror behind the counter. Kenneth's right about one thing, she looks awful. 
OVERWEIGHT SALES ASSISTANT Bitter or Milk chocolate? 
Seeing herself in the mirror changes her mind about the biscotti. 
DELLA Forget it, just the coffee. 
OVERWEIGHT SALES ASSISTANT Name? 
DELLA Della, two L's. 
OVERWEIGHT SALES ASSISTANT Four dollars and seventy nine cents. 
Della pushes the money towards her and waits for her coffee. When it finally shows up her name is spelled DELA. She sighs and checks the line for Cassie as she leaves the shop. 
Scene 40Page 23 
INT. MALL - EVENING 
She passes a hair salon and presses her face to the steamy windows. Inside, women are getting their hair styled and their nails manicured at the same time. 
Della looks down at her bitten nails but just can't bring herself to go inside. 
LYNN (O.S.) Della, is that you? 
She turns around to see LYNN MONROE, a pretty, well groomed redhead about her age. 
DELLA Lynn Monroe! 
LYNN I knew it was you, Della. I haven't seen you since college. You left to marry some handsome jock and we never heard from you again. 
DELLA Something like that. Do you live around here now? 
LYNN David and I just bought this divine house in Pleasant Valley. Do you know it? Great for the kids. 
Della nods but Lynn keeps speaking. Della sips on her latte. 
LYNN (CONT'D) It's the first time I've left the doors unlocked since I was a child growing up in the Midwest. David's been promoted to VP of United Motors so it's all happening for us. But enough of me. How are you? 
The singers' voices echo faintly through the night. 
CAROL SINGERS (O.S.) (CONT'D) Holy infant so tender and mild. 
She walks faster, almost at a dash. 
Where is her car? Even further out than she remembered, that's for sure. 
A car alarm goes off in the distance. 
The alarm stops at last as Della approaches the outer section of the parking lot. 
CAROL SINGERS (O.S.) (CONT'D) Shepherds quake at the sight. Glories beam from heaven afar. 
She cuts between some of the cars in row eight. Zigzags across aisle nine. Notices the Plymouth still parked ahead. 
She stops for a split second. Then approaches. Glances at the windshield. The note is gone. 
Scene 43Page 27 
Maybe it fell off. She checks the ground around the car. No sign of it. She shrugs, who cares anyway? 
She cuts across the next aisle. It's almost empty. And the one after that. Her Explorer is sandwiched between two cars in this otherwise empty row. 
CAROL SINGERS (O.S.) (CONT'D) Silent Night. Holy Night 
She chirps the remote twice and pops the trunk, places the bags inside. She slams the trunk closed and hurries to the drivers' side, climbs in, pulling the door closed behind her. 
INT.   FORD EXPLORER   - EVENING 
Della turns the key in the ignition and presses in the lighter. She lights a cigarette and inhales as she lets the car warm up for 30 seconds. 
She rests the cigarette in the ashtray while she releases the hand brake and slips the gear into reverse. The interior of her car is suddenly flooded with light from another car's headlights. She glances in the rear view mirror. A car is blocking her. 
DELLA Good Lord! What now? 
She steps on the brake and waits for the car to move. 
But it doesn't. Its headlights flick to full beam blinding her view in her car mirrors. She honks her horn. The car still doesn't move. 
Della's really angry now. She slips the gearshift into park and steps out of her car. 
EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING 
Della squints in the blinding headlights. The front of the car looks familiar. It's the gold Plymouth! 
Two unseen car doors click open and clunk shut again. 
The lights abruptly go out. Della blinks, her eyes try to adjust to the dim mercury illumination from a pole lamp a few car lengths away. 
She uneasily turns back to her car. 
Scene 45Page 28 
CHUCKIE (O.S.) I got a gun. 
It's a young male voice. The statement stops Della dead in her tracks. 
CHUCKIE (O.S.) (CONT'D) How's about I aim it at your pussy first? 
The words are emphasized by another boy's shrill giggling. Della freezes. This can't be happening! 
Her eyes are adjusting. The glare phantoms drift out to the limit of her peripheral vision and vanish. 
She sees three boys in front of her, then a fourth, but she doesn't see any gun. 
DELLA What the hell are you playing at? 
HUEY Trust the nigga, we not playin'. 
HUEY is a sweet-faced African-American decked out in a hip hop style. He's small and skinny and can't be more than eighteen. He's playing to CHUCKIE who's twenty-one and looks like a marine gone AWOL. Bracketing them is VINH, a nineteen year old Asian punk and TOMAS, twenty, a Latino runaway in an American Idol T-shirt. 
Della's eyes drift across the group. She suppresses a hysterical giggle but can't resist smarting off. 
DELLA What are you? The world's first homeless United Nations Boy Band? 
HUEY Hell, yeah. We just wanna do shows and bone hoes. 
Huey messes with his zipper. 
HUEY (CONT'D) We got a song fo' yo. It's called "shut up bitch and eat a dick". 
Huey and Tomas snigger. Vinh stares at the asphalt. 
Chuckie shoots him in the face. 
THIS MOMENT CHANGES EVERYTHING. 
We thought Della was in trouble but now we know she is. 
The bullet hits the Rent-A-Cop in the forehead. Blood spurts from the exit wound. He slumps to the asphalt like a marionette whose strings have just been cut. Bullet smoke hangs in the air where he once stood. Smoke too blackens the bullets entry wound. Blood puddles out from the back of his head. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Fuck! 
It's clear that Chuckie's been acting harder than he is. The hand that holds the gun is trembling. The color drains from his face. 
All stand riveted in shock. 
Scene 45Page 32 
A deathly silence follows. The carol singers can be heard in the distance faintly finishing up Silent Night. 
CAROL SINGERS (O.S.) Sleep in heavenly peace. Sleep in heavenly peace. 
Chuckie looks to his friends for support but none is forthcoming. 
The Rent-A-Cop's body twitches. 
Chuckie hesitates then raises the gun. He aims and fires. The shot shatters the top of the Rent-A-Cop's head. Chuckie flinches, closes his own eyes in reflex. 
Della swallows. If she started screaming now, she may never stop. She spins instead and makes for her car door. She's dead if she doesn't get out of here and she knows it. 
VINH She's busting a move! 
Chuckie opens his eyes. Vinh points to Della. 
Chuckie looks over and sees Della disappear through the door of her Explorer. Agitation overwhelms him. 
CHUCKIE She ain't going nowhere. We got her Ford blocked in, right? 
He looks at Vinh who nods then at Huey. 
HUEY I don't know nothing. 
Chuckie looks back at Vinh then over at Tomas. 
TOMAS (muttering) Dar candela por el culo! 
CHUCKIE I can just put one through her windshield, right? 
No one answers. Chuckie turns once more to the Rent-a-Cop whose body still twitches in some final death throe. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Will you just DIE ?! 
Scene 45Page 33 
He raises the gun. 
Another shot explodes into the night. 
INT.   FORD EXPLORER   - EVENING 
Della flinches but no   bullet tears through the back of her skull. She slams into   the driver's seat and punches the door lock switch. She hits   the four wheel drive button and presses the accelerator pedal   to the metal. 
The Explorer barely protests as its front tires claw and bounce over the six inch concrete row barrier. The barrier screeches along the underside of the frame. There is a loud SCRAAAAAPE noise as the car heaves over the barrier. Then, the rear wheels bounce and claw over. The car fishtails momentarily. 
DELLA Please God. Don't overcorrect. 
She releases the pressure on the accelerator. The Explorer straightens. 
EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - EVENING 
Tomas screams at Chuckie. 
TOMAS Chinga tu madre. She making her getaway. 
All except Chuckie turn to look as Della accelerates across the unfinished outskirts of the car park behind them. 
Vinh tugs at Chuckie's sleeve. 
VINH Chuckie! 
But Chuckie's staring at the bloody mess he made, with a faraway look in his eyes, like he's disassociating. 
Vinh throws down the stub of his cigarette, follows Tomas into the Plymouth. Tomas guns the engine. 
HUEY She on her cell right now calling the pigs. 
She reclaims the steering wheel.   Straightens up. Hits the accelerator again. 
EXT. SERVICE ROAD - EVENING 
The Plymouth swerves behind on the skid that Della created, corrects itself just before the ditch. 
Della gains speed. The Plymouth lags. 
A stop sign appears ahead. The road's ending. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Right or left, Della? Make a choice. 
EXT. SERVICE ROAD - EVENING 
There is no choice. A barrier blocks the left hand turn. A big sign reads "LOT FULL". 
EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE ROAD - EVENING 
Della swings right instead. 
The streetlights recede behind her. 
EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING 
Nothing but the darkness of a housing complex under construction ahead. 
But she seems to have shaken off her pursuers. 
She speeds down the road, looking intently for any sign of life. But there's nothing but half-built houses, empty houses, houses just like hers. 
EXT. SEVEN ELEVEN MINI MALL - EVENING 
A Seven Eleven sign appears. She slows down. But it may as well be a mirage, it's an unfinished building with only the sign, in an unfinished mini-mall. 
Scene 58Page 37 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Close to screaming now she speeds up. 
EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING 
More empty houses in varying stages of construction. No sign of life. 
EXT. FILLING STATION - EVENING 
Then, what looks like a filling station, one light on in the kiosk. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Hope. She pulls in and dims her lights, drives right up to the kiosk door. 
Hope dashed. 
EXT. FILLING STATION - EVENING 
It's in its final stages of installation but definitely not functioning. And there's no one there. 
EXT. EMPTY HOUSING ESTATE - EVENING 
Back onto the road and she sees far behind her, car headlights that can only belong to the Plymouth, following her through the darkness. 
She dims her lights to just the side lights. Hurtles along the dark road which is getting rougher and rougher. Potholes filled with mud and rain water splash against the car. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Her wipers struggle to cope. She can hardly see through the front window. 
EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING 
The potholes yawn deeper. The asphalt ends. Gravel deteriorates to dirt. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
She steers the Ford blindly. 
Scene 67Page 38 
EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING 
A wooden barrier with reflective stripes looms suddenly ahead. 
The Plymouth must have skidded and got stuck in the mud. 
EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - EVENING 
She closes the trunk softly then runs to the front of the car, clutching the toolbox and the wrench. She reaches back into the car and unlatches the hood from underneath the dash. Pop. She softly closes the door again. Punches her way through the branches. Slides her fingers under the hood, pries up the lever. It pops up only a few inches. 
DELLA Damn! 
She tries to manually lift it. But it's heavy with the weight of pine branches. 
Voices drift towards her. 
TOMAS (O.S.) Keep hitting on the gas and you gonna dig them wheels into a dirt grave. 
CHUCKIE (O.S.) Save yo talk and get out and push. 
The sound of car doors opening, feet squishing into the mud and cussing. The boys materialize in the light from the headlights. 
TOMAS Hell, no. 
HUEY Shit! 
Scene 77Page 41 
CHUCKIE (O.S.) What's aggravating you now? 
HUEY Our new sneakers are stuck up in the dirt like they was last years. 
Doors slam and two sets of footsteps join the others. 
CHUCKIE Soon as we taken care o' Mrs. Podunk you and the Spanish dancer can hit the next mall. But first you fakers best haul this rider out of the filth. 
VINH Stupid ass car got nowhere else to go. There's nothing but trees up ahead. 
TOMAS Screw the car, Chuckie. Case you forgot we got a witness on the loose! I ain't want to end up in the clink as some chimp's prison pillow. 
CHUCKIE Trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars. 
Della drops the hood. It makes a faint squeak but doesn't slam down, seems it's stuck open these last few inches. 
TOMAS Yo talk a real mob threat, Chuckie. But what if she gone already? 
Chuckie's eyes scan the housing estate. 
CHUCKIE She ain't gone. 
Della frantically sweeps pine branches and cones from the hood. But some larger branches are jammed, wedged by the broken tree. 
When she looks back over for the boys she sees the car headlights are off and there's no sign of them. 
Scene 77Page 42 
She stands stock still, listening, scanning the landscape for a sign of them. 
The sound of glass shattering breaks the silence. 
Della jumps out of her skin, spins around. Her eyes settle on a light in the distance. 
EXT. ROUGH ROAD - EVENING 
The light illuminates the small cabin of an earth moving truck. The cabin glows like a box in the darkness. There's a figure inside: it's Chuckie. He's inspecting a powerful construction flashlight. He switches settings from broad light to concentrated beam. He points the beam through the broken glass window onto Tomas, who's standing on a truck tyre knocking out the rest of the glass with his elbow. Chuckie leaps down through the broken window, pleased with his find. 
He switches it to broad beam, whistles. 
CHUCKIE Won't be long before we find her now. This baby could spot a needle in a haystack! 
The light dances around illuminating each of their faces for seconds at a time. Eerie distorted glimpses. They're traipsing along the rough road, through the mud, towards Della. Their voices grow louder. 
HUEY We caught up in this bitch's life like a soap opera. We could just bail, blast out of town like we was never here. 
CHUCKIE This boy loves weed so much he tried to marry Juana. 
HUEY Ain't no one cares about the Rent-a- Pig. He just collateral damage to the peeps at the mall. 
Chuckie pushes Huey half playfully, half annoyed. 
CHUCKIE Listen up skippy: SHE THE ONLY WITNESS. 
Scene 78Page 43 
HUEY But if we hit the road now we'll be five hundred miles away before they find him....we could be drinking cold beer and swimmin' in the Atlantic....just like you promised. 
Huey stares off into space like he's having a vision. 
HUEY Yo left without yo goodbye kiss. 
The light sweeps past Huey's hips. The sound of a zipper. The light sweeps back up onto Della. 
Scene 96Page 50 
CHUCKIE You a window shopper little brother. You ain't never even done the old in and out before. 
Waves of pain spasm through Della's shoulder. 
The boys snigger. 
HUEY Imma just a young playa tryin' to put my bid in. 
Tomas leans down towards Della. Chuckie moves the flashlight to illuminate them both. Tomas drains the last dregs from a bottle of Bud, tosses the empty bottle down into the foundations. It rolls into the darkness. 
Della shudders. She clutches the lug wrench against her coat behind the tool box and tries to disappear into the wall. 
TOMAS Don't worry, when we done wit you we send yo back in yo trunk to Mr. Podunk. 
Tomas reaches down and pulls Della up to standing by the coat collar. He then yanks the coat down over her shoulder. The white shirt she wears underneath is damp with sweat making the form of her breasts very clear. 
Chuckie keeps the light focused right on her. 
Tomas slides his index finger down across Della's neck towards her breasts. 
Della claws at Tomas' face with the nails of her free hand. He staggers to the side holding his cheek and cursing. Her chewed nails haven't left any dents, but she stunned him. 
The others laugh. 
She shrugs the coat back over her shoulders and pulls it tight across herself, once again clasping the toolbox close to her side. 
TOMAS (CONT'D) Don't want to play nice? Puta! 
He moves towards her, face twisted with hate, arm raised. 
Scene 96Page 51 
CHUCKIE Back off five minutes, my Ghetto brother. 
Tomas glares at Della, then lowers his arm. Spits on the ground instead. Turns back to the boys. Chuckie moves forwards and focuses on Della's box? 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) What's with the man size crast? 
Della doesn't answer. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You running with the family jewels? 
Della still doesn't answer. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You rob a bank this morning, Della? 
Della remains determinedly mute. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Least yo learned something tonight Della honey? 
VINH Yeah, like how to quit mouthing if you wanna avoid drama. 
CHUCKIE You must be wondering how we come to know your name. 
Chuckie giggles. Della shivers. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You screwed up Della Myers. Left your purse in the Ford. 
Chuckie holds up her driving licence and examines it. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) What a shitty photo! 
Chuckie nods to Vinh. Vinh passes his lighter to Chuckie. Chuckie lights the licence on fire. The plastic burns black and toxic. The flame annihilates Della's name, her date of birth, her face. Pieces of plastic unfurl and drift up through the empty windows and doors of the unfinished house. 
Scene 96Page 52 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Guess you won't be needing it no more. 
Della stares defiantly, fighting back the internal nausea caused by this symbolically brutal act. 
Chuckie maneuvers the light back in her eyes then right back on his own menacing face. Then, back again on her face. She becomes disoriented. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) So what's in the box? 
Della remains mute, looks away from the beam. 
HUEY Yo think she carrying the big notes, maybe some ice? 
TOMAS Jesus hijo de maria el virgene. 
VINH What? 
Vinh moves towards Chuckie who is crouched over Huey. 
Scene 96Page 55 
CHUCKIE My little brother. 
Tomas approaches. 
He pushes Chuckie gently out of the way so he can see. 
He stares down at Huey's bloody meshed face. Tomas staggers backwards and crosses himself. 
TOMAS Mamacita! Madre de Dios! 
Chuckie punches Tomas' leg. 
CHUCKIE You tread on my boy's face. YOU KILLED HIM. 
TOMAS I didn't kill him. I didn't kill no one. 
Tomas pushes Chuckie backwards. 
TOMAS (CONT'D) She did it. She killed him. 
Chuckie and Tomas stare at each other. 
TOMAS (CONT'D) I'm gonna cross that bitch out. 
EXT.   WOODS - EVENING 
Della runs for her life. She makes straight for the cover of the trees. She hesitates for just a moment after the first layer of Pines. It's pitch black beyond. Then she steps in. 
She follows her breath into the icy blackness. 
Branches and foliage scratch against her face. 
She grapples about, looking for hiding places between the dark shapes and forms. Steps between tree roots and shrubs. 
Her eyes begin to adjust. She can now make out the difference between the clumps of darkness and tell, looking back, where the edge of the woods begins. A construction light shines behind like a distant moon. 
Scene 97Page 56 
She pushes between the branches of indistinguishable trees, some thick and knotted, others slight and brittle. Only the evergreens still have their foliage. 
Looking back constantly to the edge of the trees for a sign of the boys. 
Fear drives her further into the woods towards where the trees grow even more densely together. Where there just may be the right place to hide. 
She stops for a second to catch her breath. 
The handle of the toolbox has chaffed her right palm. She changes hands. 
God, that boy Huey! He really died back there. She heard the sound of it. The horrific sound of him dying a stupid pointless death. 
It could have been her. 
There has to be some way out of this nightmare. 
Ahead, a dead tree with spectral branches blocks her path. She steps around its huge trunk and tangle of roots. 
CHUCKIE DELLA! 
Chuckie's voice drifts towards her.   She ducks down among the roots. 
Her eyes scan the darkness. 
No moving shapes nor forms. No sound. No flashlight. Just shadowy clumps of trees. 
Should she stay put or should she run? 
Then she sees it. The flashlight weaving through the pines ahead. 
She pushes further in among the roots, tries to make herself invisible. 
The flashlight beam sweeps across the forest floor towards her. One set of footsteps crunches through the foilage. 
She holds still, terrified. 
The flashlight pauses on the dead tree, the roots. 
Della overhead, looking down on the clearing. 
Vinh transfixed by the music. 
Tomas stone silent, watching Vinh. 
It plays out for a poignant moment. Like they're all part of some spiritual rite about to be consummated. 
Vinh pours some beer onto the ground at Huey's feet. A small tear runs down his stoic face. 
Then CLICK. The blaster is abruptly turned off by Chuckie who appears out of the shadows behind it. 
He stares a beat at Vinh like he can't believe what he's been seeing. 
Vinh keeps on moving like he's in a trance. 
CHUCKIE What the fuck you doing? 
Vinh doesn't reply. Stares down at the ground, keeps on with his weird dance. Chuckie moves towards him. Tomas grabs Chuckie, tries to stop him from going for Vinh, but Chuckie shrugs him off. 
Chuckie reaches out and shakes Vinh. No response. He shakes him again. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) I asked you what your deal is, sand dancer? 
The second shake sort of breaks Vinh out of his trance. He shivers. 
VINH It's a tribute. A gesture. 
CHUCKIE A what? 
Scene 101Page 60 
Vinh stares down at the dirt at his feet. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Your brain even smaller than 'em slits for eyes? 
Vinh slouches defiantly over to the blaster and presses track 8 replay. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Keep on banging out that ghetto ass shit and you'll alert every cop in Podunk county. 
VINH It's for Huey. Our dead homie. 
The song starts again. Chuckie looks at him incredulously, shouts above the music. 
CHUCKIE You checked out, right? 
VINH He loved that track. 
Vinh snorts back a sob. He hugs himself into a hunch and starts dancing again. 
Chuckie loses it. He slaps Vinh. 
CHUCKIE Get a grip, skippy. 
Vinh rubs his face. He's getting a grip all right. Chuckie slams off the blaster. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Huey's DEAD. And ain't no requiem gonna resurrect his ass. He down under the ground now with the real men of respect. 
The three boys stand somberly in silence, each paying internal homage to their dead friend. Chuckie hardens his heart against the tears that threaten to flow. Tomas trembles, mumbles. 
TOMAS I didn't mean it. I didn't do it. I didn't mean to kill him. 
Scene 101Page 61 
This breaks the moment. Chuckie snaps back. 
CHUCKIE Well he dead. That's it for him. OVER. But we still here. Hell, yeah. Payback's gonna be a real bitch for a real bitch. 
Vinh wipes away his tears. 
VINH She probably gone by now. 
CHUCKIE You best hope not, genius. She gone, we gone. 
Chuckie paces around the circumference of the clearing. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) DELLA! 
EXT. LEDGE - EVENING 
Della's been watching the scene unfold, a captive audience, attentive and terrified. 
Slowly she tears her eyes away from the boys. She backs away from the edge and right into the sharp branch of a big old tree. The branch digs into that point in her shoulder she hurt earlier on the barbed wire. 
Della gasps in horror, watches as: 
Tomas pulls himself up onto his feet, comes towards her once more. 
Della swings the lug wrench back and strikes him across the head. 
He spins, clutches at his head, then reaches towards her AGAIN. 
She loses it. She swings the lug wrench towards him.    All the years of pent up rage finally find their release. 
The wrench catches up under his nose with a sickening CRUNCH. It drives the cartilage up and into his face. 
Blood spurts from the wound. He staggers backwards. 
A shocked scream escapes from Della's mouth. 
DELLA Awwwrgh! 
As she staggers backwards in the opposite direction. 
Tomas tries to cry out but can only utter in pain. 
TOMAS Unnh! Unnh! Unnh! 
He tries to pull the lug wrench out of his face. Spins. Stumbles. 
The flashlight beam travels past them. 
Scene 105Page 69 
TOMAS (CONT'D) Unnh! 
Tomas crashes back into a tree. He loses consciousness. His body slumps slowly down the tree trunk to the dirt. Blood gushes from where the wrench meets his face. He looks like he's dressed for Halloween. 
Della just stares. Stares at Tomas, at what she did, what she had to do. 
Tomas' eyes are wide open, staring too, at nothing, dead. 
The horror of having killed someone overwhelms Della. She starts shaking with shock. 
Vinh cries out for Tomas 
VINH (O.S.) TOMAS! 
The sound of footfalls crashing through the brush follows. 
CHUCKIE (O.S.) Curb the squealing. You a gangsta or a boy scout? 
Vinhs voice is breathless and jittery. 
VINH (O.S.) Tomas's gone, Chuckie. I can feel it. 
Della tears herself away from Tomas's body and staggers into the deadwood to collect the toolbox. It glints, even in the darkness. 
She grabs it and runs for cover behind a tree. 
Behind her in the near distance the chaotic sweeps of the flashlight illuminates Vinh and Chuckie as they march through the woods searching for Tomas. 
CHUCKIE Tomas is one hard son of a bitch. He got her strung up from a tree by now and you know it. 
But Chuckie doesn't look so sure. Vinh charges ahead into the darkness. 
Scene 105Page 70 
Della flashes briefly into shot, running between the trees. The flashlight sweeps by. 
VINH There's something over here. 
Chuckie walks towards Vinh. Vinh takes the flashlight from Chuckie and shines it towards a thick shape between three trees. 
VINH (CONT'D) It looks like a body. 
They close in on a muddle of shapes, bush and spidery tree trunks. The flashlight illuminates a tree trunk long and thick as a body. 
CHUCKIE It's a big old tree trunk, you paranoid gook. 
Chuckie tries to take the flashlight back from Vinh but Vinh won't give it. Chuckie doesn't persist. Vinh keeps going, shivering and blustering. 
Vinh senses something. He shines the flashlight behind the tree trunk. Still nothing. Sweeps back. 
Della darts between the evergreens behind them. She conceals herself in between the trunks and branches. Braces herself, waits for the right moments, the ones when they're not looking, to run between the trees. Cognizant enough to know they just want to find Tomas right now. She seems to be on autopilot, becoming numb as the minutes stretch on. 
She watches Vinh plod forward and through the brush. He hits every inch of it with the flashlight. Sighs. Doubles back to follow Chuckie. 
DELLA (CONT'D) Please, I just want to see my babies again. 
Her rocking slows until it stops. There's a loud crunch close by. She rises reflexively from the stream. Raises the toolbox. She looks around. A branch has broken from a tree and drags down into the stream behind her. 
This seems to bring her back to herself. She realizes it's only a matter of time before they come looking for her. She needs to get moving. 
She sets off downstream. She trudges through the shallow water. Her wet coat drags heavily. 
The stream must end somewhere, likely at the other edge of the woods. 
She trudges onwards, sweeping aside the branches of stooping trees, stepping around rocky obstacles in the stream. 
Forging ahead. 
She now needs to pee. GREAT. Her temper surges up. 
She looks for the right place to do it, realizes it's probably best to pee in the stream, so all trace of it will be dispersed. 
A leafless willow trails its dried up branches into the stream. She makes her way toward it. 
She lays the toolbox down and disappears between the branches. We see glimpses of her lifting her coat, pulling down her pants, pushing the crotch of her underpants to the side. We hear her shiver and the faint tinkle of water meeting the stream. 
More glimpses of her pulling up her underpants and pants, smoothing down her coat. 
She hoists her coat up again around her waist and picks up the toolbox. 
She plows down stream once more. Longing to see the light that will tell her she's at the edge of the woods, closer to the mall lights, closer to home. 
She swallows another wave of grief. 
Scene 106Page 74 
The stream loops around ahead then splits into two. She follows it, picks the left fork. 
And then she hears it, the terrible sound of feet thundering down into the stream behind her. 
She doesn't even turn to see them. Just runs. Runs for her life. 
The glare of the flashlight blasts against her back. Freezing water splashes up her legs, soaking through her pants. Her feet slip and slide over wet rocks. But she keeps running. 
Vinh's behind her. She can feel his breath, the swipe of his hands as he grabs for her and misses. She runs even faster. 
She leaps over tree trunks that cross the stream. They leap behind her. 
She pushes through the hanging branches of several trees. Pushes them forward hard then lets them go as she passes, right into Vinh's face. 
He tries to duck but they hit him right in the eyes. He cries out, covers his eyes. 
VINH Aaaarrhh. 
This buys her a moment or two to get ahead. The stream bends right ahead. She opts to stay in it. Chuckie leaps out, runs along the banks, hoping to outrun and trap her. 
But the stream then bends left, giving her an advantage. He leaps back across the stream to the other side. But she's outrunning him. He charges back into the stream behind her. 
Della keeps on running through the stream, somehow trusting its direction. 
Vinh catches up with Chuckie. The boys are maybe twenty-five feet behind her. 
A SHOT rings out. Then a bullet races past her ear. Lodges in a tree just ahead of her. She almost loses her footing. She'd forgotten for just a moment, that they had a gun. 
Another shot blasts off into the night, skims her shoulder, hits the muddy bank of the stream. She flinches, braces herself, keeps going, adrenalin pumping harder than ever. 
Scene 106Page 75 
The stream winds around a bunch of rocks ahead. For just a moment she's invisible to them. She uses it. When she reaches the rocks, she dives out, ducking below the glare of Chuckie's flashlight, down behind the rocks. 
EXT.   EMBANKMENT - EVENING 
She creeps up the muddy embankment hiding deep in the shadows of some wiry shrubs, as close to the mud as her back will allow. 
The boys stop by the rocks. Chuckie sweeps the flashlight up the muddy embankment, looking for a footprint, a sign of her. 
She tries to creep through the midst of the brush to avoid leaving prints. Tries to stay quiet as a mouse. Stops when she sees the flashlight sweep by. 
If she can get to the top, she can make another run for it. 
All of a sudden, it grows dark. The boys must have switched the flashlight off or maybe the battery's dead. She listens hard for their footfalls. Nothing. 
EXT. PINE TREE - EVENING 
She sees that she is in the shadows of a big old Pine tree. 
She creeps behind its massive gnarled trunk and silently slides open the toolbox, fumbles around for the screwdriver. She removes it from the box and grasps it tight. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Twins huh?     Terri and Tammi. 
Della doesn't move. Terrified. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) I bet you could use that cigarette now Della honey? (he chuckles) A woman's purse can tell her whole life story! 
Della stares petrified as he unfolds her purse from deep in his jacket. He empties the contents out onto the dirt. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Now I know where they are living, I'm thinking I may stop by after and say hello. 
Della wants to run at him so bad she almost hyperventilates. But she also knows that's what he wants and she refuses to give him the satisfaction. 
We move in closer on Chuckie. He's looking right at where she's hiding, pure malevolence hardening his face to a mask. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) They wouldn't know a damn thing about what happened to Mommy while she was out, would they, Della? 
Scene 111Page 83 
We move in on Della. Her knuckles are blue white and her eyes are blazing. Rage explodes in her. She doesn't even realize that she is shouting till she's done. 
DELLA I'M GOING TO KILL YOU. 
Chuckie waltzes towards her hiding place. 
CHUCKIE I figured that would help you find your voice! 
Della crouches further in behind the felled trees. Why the hell did she shout? She could have been hiding anywhere. Now he must know for sure where she is. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Don't worry. I would never touch them. It's wrong to hurt kids! Right, Della? 
She clamps her mouth closed. Chuckie continues waltzing toward her, stops about twelve feet away. He stares in between the felled trees like he has x-ray vision. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) The game's over. 
Chuckie laughs. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You won! 
Sadness creeps into his voice. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You took him from me...He was only seventeen years old. And all he ever wanted to do was see the ocean. And he never saw it. No, he never got to go. 
Chuckie's grief sits like a stone in his throat. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) They're all gone now. 
Chuckie coughs, a dry laboured cough. He hocks long and deeply in his throat. But whatever it is he can't spit it out. He rubs his throat and collarbone gingerly. 
Scene 111Page 84 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You know the movie "Clockwork Orange"? 
Della looks puzzled.   Yeah, and? 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Well, they were my droogies, Della. 
Chuckie sighs. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) Chances are they would of turned on me anyway, just like in the movie. 
Chuckie paces around, deep in thought. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) None of them was real ass outlaw. No, not in the way you are. You're the real deal, lady. 
He stops. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) I was already thinking about cutting some of em loose, getting a new style posse together. 
Della's head is spinning. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) How's about it, you and me? 
This can't be real. Has he lost his mind? She utters under her breath. 
DELLA Give me a break. 
Chuckie reaches down, retrieves her diary from the dirt. She cringes. 
CHUCKIE Monday night mechanics. Tuesday Pilates. Wednesday Spanish. Thursday, I wish.... 
He closes the diary. 
Scene 111Page 85 
Chuckie smiles, brings his teeth back into a scary, feral grin. 
CHUCKIE I wanted to look you in the eye before I kill you. 
Della doesn't react.    He brings up his hand, gun clutched, pointed and ready. 
Della surprises him and us. 
DELLA That's what I figured. 
She nods her head, points her chin over his shoulder. 
DELLA (CONT'D) Huey there, going to help? 
Scene 111Page 88 
Chuckie is puzzled. 
CHUCKIE Huey?   Huey's .... 
He glances to the side for a split second, turns the gun as he turns his head. It's enough. Della slips the flare out of her pocket and opens it in his face. 
Before he even has time to react she LEAPS at him with all the spring left in her legs. Her fingers close around the wrist with the gun. 
The flare falls aside casting its fiery glow across them. 
She crashes her good shoulder into the spongy place where his collar bone is broken. It makes the ugly noise of sinew tearing. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) CHRIST! 
She tumbles him down to the December ground and wraps her legs tight around him. Tight like a lover. 
She grinds her chin deep and forcefully into the area of his broken collarbone, exacerbating the wound. 
He cries out, thrashes about. She keeps her body melded to his, grinding her chin even deeper. 
He wraps his arms tightly around her and pulls her even closer, wrenches her chin up and away from his collarbone. 
They roll across the dirt.   He whispers, low and close to her. 
CHUCKIE (CONT'D) You're even better than I thought. 
He pushes his mouth hard up against hers to stop her chin returning to the wound. She tries to pull away but he only presses harder. 
Neither can break away. 
It's unclear who's got the gun. 
They roll until she suddenly pulls away, sits up. 
But he has her and she has him in a fatal leg lock. 
Scene 111Page 89 
And she has the gun. 
They look at each other. He smiles. 
He makes for the gun. 
She fires into his chest, just once, it's enough. 
His legs release. He slumps back.   Blood darkens his shirt. 
Gun smoke coils from the dark bullet wound. Blood seeps below him from the exit wound, spreading out in a dark puddle. 
His body surrenders to death. 
She stares down at him. A queasy silent moment passes. She stares at the gun in her hands. It feels so heavy, so unreal. 
His dead eyes stare. She reaches over and closes them gently. 
And she's light-headed, so light-headed she could just float away. Somehow she stands up. 
She looks back down at the body, not quite believing he could be dead. She sees her silver locket lying beside him in the pool of blood. 
She retrieves it. Uses her sleeve to wipe the blood away from its exterior. Inside the photos of her kids are still there; tiny photos of Tammis little thoughtful face and Terri's mischievous one look back at her. She snaps the locket closed. 
She searches the area for the rest of her belongings, finds her wallet, her purse, her diary, her lighter, her tampax box, a lipstick in the dirt. She sticks everything in her purse. She almost misses her pack of cigarettes. We see them half buried under the dirt. She scans the area once more finds them. The pack is empty but she takes it anyway. 
It's time to go home. 
EXT. WOODS - EVENING 
She edges slowly up to meet the line of cars. Watches as the police car circumvents the traffic and pulls into the Mall road, to join a police car that already has the Mall entrance road blocked off. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
Of course.    How long has it been? That poor security guard. 
She checks the car clock. It's only 85 minutes since she left the house! Hard to believe. Feels like another lifetime. 
Another cop car whizzes past the line. How long before they come for her? She's got to get back to the kids. 
Della adjusts the rearview mirror. Her gaunt bloody face looks back. 
DELLA Oh my. 
She looks at her hands, they're ingrained with mud and blood. And her clothes! 
While waiting for the traffic to start moving again she fumbles on the passenger seat, finds some kleenex. 
She wipes her hands, her face, using the rearview mirror, some Kleenex and the rest of the water. She looks only slightly better. 
The line starts moving. Della follows. She passes the police cars, steals a cursory glance. 
She keeps checking her face in the mirror. The cars soon start to disperse in different directions. The Mall disappears behind her. She turns left onto an almost empty road. 
She can't wait to see her babies, make sure they're okay. How could anyone expect her to go the speed limit at a time like this. 
Scene 125Page 93 
She hits forty, forty-five, fifty. Takes it all the way up to sixty. Runs a light. 
EXT. RAILWAY ROAD - EVENING 
As long as the roads empty she's gonna own it. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
At sixty-five she races across the railway track. She slows down to just above speed limit when she sees a car ahead on the adjoining road. 
With one hand guiding the wheel she grabs the lipstick from her purse. 
She carefully applies it in the rearview but her mouth is so parched it just cakes into her chapped lips. She wipes it away. 
EXT. CROSSROADS - EVENING 
She drives through the crossroads. 
INT. FORD EXPLORER - EVENING 
She applies some lipstick to her cheeks to give her some color. But she just looks odd. She ends up wiping it away with the back of her hand. 
Gosh, this car in front is really taking its sweet time. She decides to overtake. She accelerates to sixty. As she passes the driver stares at her car. 
She slows down so as not to arouse any more suspicion. She passes the familiar sign for "Pleasant Valley Drive". The road's empty ahead so she guns it to sixty-five. 
The closer she gets to home, the faster she wants to go. She tries to resist but can't. The speedometer hits seventy. 
The car hurtles into the night. Oh No, a red light ahead. And a car waiting to go in the opposite direction. She decides to slow for this one. Barely makes it - screeches to a halt. The driver in the forward facing car checks her out. She attempts to smile and look like a normal housewife. 
EXT. PLEASANT DRIVE - EVENING 
She waits for the car to pass, then hits the accelerator again. She signals right, turns abruptly into meet the gates of Pleasant valley Dream Homes. 
Scene 130Page 94 
She rakes about in her purse for her chub card, can't find it. She presses the intercom. No one answers. She presses again. Still no answer. She backs out hard onto Pleasant Valley Drive. Luckily for her, the car she overtook a few minutes earlier pulls in. She tails the car tightly through the gates which scrape shut against her back bumpers. But she's in. 
She guns it along Pleasant Valley Crescent and slows as she approaches the sign for Pleasant Valley Boulevard. Checks herself in the mirror. Pulls into the boulevard. 
When she sees her house ahead a huge sob engulfs her. She snorts it back. Not yet. Her face hurts so bad with repressed emotion that it feels like it's made of stone. 
She pulls into the driveway. Smooths her coat. 
She glances at the gun, which lies on the passenger seat. 
She turns off the ignition. 
She looks back at the gun. She removes the car keys from the ignition. 
She glances at the gun. 
She looks at the house; it all looks normal. 
She takes a deep breath. 
