WHITE SQUALL 
by 
Todd Robinson 
Revised First Draft 
October 31, 1994 
FADE IN: 
SUPER:  A TRUE STORY - MYSTIC HARBOR CONNECTICUT 1994 
CREDITS OVER 
Wind on the water.  Soaring gulls and sand pipers glide over the pilings and sagging bulkheads. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) Though I hadn't seen or spoken to Sheldrake in over thirty years, it seemed impossible that his heart was the thing that had finally failed him... 
INT.  LATE MODEL CAR - SAME 
CHUCK GIEG, 49, thin, windswept and handsome, is behind the wheel.  He pulls down a narrow cobble stone street that leads to the wharf. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) I never got close to him, nobody did.  But by the time we made Tampa, I was sure I knew who he was, that I understood what he saw, what nourished his soul and tested his faith... 
EXT.  WHARF - DAY 
Chuck stares out across the harbor.  In the distance, the echoes of singing masts.  Shrouds and canvas softly ping. The small boats of Mystic tug restlessly at their moorings. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) He had taken us to worship, where, what was for him, the holiest of holies.  And, for us too by the end... 
EXT.  DOCTORS OFFICE - LATER 
Chuck stands silently on the periphery of a gathering of people.  They surround a small building, a neighborhood clinic.  A worn gray stone, long in the earth, dedicates the structure. 
IN MEMORY OF NATALIE "ALICE" SHELDRAKE M.D., CAPTAIN'S WIFE AND SHIP'S SURGEON OF THE BRIGANTINE ALBATROSS - MAY 2, 1961 
Next to the stone a funeral urn.  A YOUNG MINISTER gropes for meaning. 
MINISTER I didn't know Richard Sheldrake personally, but his many friends who knew and worked with him, wanted to make sure that he was returned home, here, to be remembered with his beloved wife... 
Chuck gazes out at the sleepy harbor, the minister's voice fading away.  The afternoon wind is coming up with the tide.  He quietly heads towards the water.  Drifting, drawn, lost. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) Though he had moved on with his life, now even for the years, to hear him eulogized by strangers, seemed strange.  He had been a hewner of stones, a pilot by the silent stars.  Like me, alone among many.  But most of all for us, the crew of the brigantine Albatross, he was always and would forever be... our Skipper. 
A SHIP'S BELL turns him around.  Ding ding.  Ding ding.  A beautiful three masted schooner steady on the water slips into port.  A picture out of another time, another place. It takes him away... 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT.  FOREST - WATER TOWER - DAY 
A towering monolith, surrounded by tall oaks and sycamores.  The tower is immense.  A single ladder runs up to the top. 
AT THE TOP 
Just above the tree tops, the view is spectacular.  CHUCK GIEG, 16, sits thin and unsteady.  Chuck's gaze is drawn upward -- to the building spring cumulus clouds.  Chuck's older brother WILL, 18, stout, self assured, pulls himself to the top. 
WILL You gonna jump?  Or are you just having a last look? 
CHUCK I was just thinking that I never had a new pair of shoes till I was twelve. 
WILL It's no my fault I was born first. Besides, nobody ever sent me on an eight month vacation, so ease up on the sad sack stuff. 
CHUCK It's not a vacation, it's private school. 
WILL I thought this was your dream come true. 
CHUCK That's not why he's sending me. 
WILL Why then. 
CHUCK Because it looks good. 
Chuck looks out, yearning.  Will considers him, troubled. 
CHUCK I'm just not like you.  Ya know? I'm never going to go to Yale.  I'm never going to be "William". 
WILL Nobody says you have to be like me. 
CHUCK He does. 
WILL You don't give him enough credit Chas. 
Chuck takes a last look at the building clouds.  The sky rumbles.  Distant thunder. 
WILL We better go. 
EXT.  GIEG HOUSE - DAY 
Maple street, USA, tree lined and quaint.  The Gieg home is a modest two story house with a covered porch.  The family station wagon is poised for departure.  CHARLES, 45, a generally serious man broods as MIDDY, their mother, 40, soft and thoughtful, exits the house.  Chuck and Will appear from the woods. 
CHARLES (ticked) You plan on making this plane or not? 
WILL Don't take any wooden nickels Kemosabe. 
CHUCK I won't. 
Will shoves out a hand at Chuck. 
WILL And lighten up will ya. 
RICK I gotta admit I never thought you'd be back after the great "Bowsprit Affair". 
TOD Me and Skipper had a meeting of the minds. 
CHARLIE How's that? 
TOD I begged. 
CHUCK (warming a little) What the "Bowsprit Affair"? 
RICK Well, Romeo here was on harbor watch and managed to sweet talk one of the local girls to have a go in the bowsprit. 
TOD Not just any 'local' girl. 
RICK The 'local' mayor's 'local' daughter. 
Tod smiles, reminiscing. 
CHARLIE Thing is, the net in the basket isn't very comfortable, so Tod-o wraps them up in the jib.  After the deed was done... 
RICK He says they did the deed... 
TOD Trust me, we did the deed. 
CHARLIE After the "alleged" deed was done, they fell asleep.  Big Daddy Lawford comes on deck at four bells and hears Casanova sawing logs. 
TOD Believe me, I needed the rest... 
CHARLIE He gets the whole crew on deck, gets us on the halyard, and orders the old "heave ho...". 
RICK Up goes the jib and out roll Tod-o and the mayor's daughter, naked as pilot whales... 
CHARLIE (to Tod) I don't know who was more surprised, you or Big Daddy. 
TOD To tell you the truth, I think it was her father. 
At the top of a hill, the harbor comes into view. 
RICK Well gentlemen, there she is. 
The cab stops.  Besides many colorful fishing boats, is the ALBATROSS.  At ninety-two feet, she dwarfs everything in the harbor.  Her white hull glows like ivory and her twin masts and yard arms tower above her deck. Breathtaking. 
CHARLIE Home sweet hell on the water. 
EXT.  DOCK - DAY 
The boys pile out of the taxi.  What seemed like a pristine ship from the hill looks like a rust bucket up close.  The white paint is streaked and barnacles cover the hull.  Looks of disappointment. 
CHUCK What happened to it? 
A voice from behind turns Chuck. 
BILL She cleans up.  We'll have her ship shape before we shove off. 
This is BILL BUTLER, 15, removed, the youngest of the crew and... first mate.  Bill gives Chuck a friendly slap on the back and climbs aboard.  He is greeted by a Viking giant of a man, LAWFORD, 37, and bearded, the ship's English professor. 
Puffing on a huge Havana cigar, he stares coolly down at Tod and the others.  He speaks with the voice of Moses. 
LAWFORD "That this same child of honor and renown, This gallant Hotspur, this all praised knight, And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet. For every honor sitting on his helm, Would they were multitudes, and on my head.  My shames redoubled!  For the time will come... 
Chuck feels something and looks up where he meets the intense stare of a man standing between the deck cabins. Their eyes lock. 
LAWFORD ... That I shall make this northern youth exchange, his glorious deeds for my indignities." 
Then, the man is gone.  Haunting.  Only Chuck has seen him.  Tod smiles back at Lawford impishly. 
TOD Would you be addressing me, sir? 
LAWFORD I would. 
RICK What's that supposed to mean? 
LAWFORD (beat) Henry the IV part I Act I Scene ii. I suggest you read it. 
Lawford sneers and walks away.  It's all a show. 
CHARLIE It means Shakespeare.  B-o-r-i-n-g. 
BILL It means if he catches anybody basket-napping on watch this passage, he's gonna use their lizard for 'cuda' bait. 
RICK (lightly) Well that's a hell of a how-do-you- do. 
BILL Drop your gear, go below and pick yourself some bunks. 
Chuck and the others climb aboard. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAY 
Chuck makes his way down the companionway into the main cabin.  Other crew members are already unpacking. 
The sleeping arrangement is Pullman-style with two rows of bunks on each side of the cabin.  In the middle of the room is a gimbaled table.  This is where the crew will eat and study. 
RICK Listen up.  This is Chuck Gieg. 
Among the crew -- feature ROBIN WEATHERS, 16, a cherub with soft puffy cheeks and TERRY LAPCHICK, 17, skinny and rodent-like. 
Robin approaches with a hand extended.  He carries a 8x10 photo of a young man in a football uniform. 
ROBIN I'm Robin. 
Chuck regards the photo. 
BILL Now what's the problem, Goodall? Everybody swims. 
The crew are piling back on deck.  George stands in the open galley door.  The smell of fresh bacon is intoxicating. 
JOHN I don't. 
LAWFORD You will if you wanna eat.  Right George? 
George nods, wielding a butchers knife.  The crew stand shivering, waiting on John. 
JOHN (to Bill) You gonna swim for your breakfast? 
Bill gives John a long look then strips to his shorts, swings into the rigging and climbs up to the first yard arm.  He looks down at the water some twenty-five feet below.  It's a long way.  Robin turns away. 
Lawford booms in a voice that echoes across the harbor. 
LAWFORD "Down, down beneath the deep, That oft in triumph bore him, He sleeps a sound and peaceful sleep, With the salt waves dashing over him." -- Lord Byron gentlemen. 
With that Bill leaps and hits the water with a huge KERSPLASH!  He swims to the boarding ladder, pulls himself up and gets in John's face. 
BILL Everybody swims.  Now, I've been in twice.  So I guess I'll be eating your breakfast too. 
John considers him, then strips off his shirt.  But instead of walking over to the gunnel door, he jumps into the ratlines, climbs to the foretop and looks down. 
He manages a thin smile then climbs to the second set of ratlines past the third yard and continues to the top yard arm -- the topgallant.  It's a pissing contest and everybody knows it. 
MIKE I got five bucks says he doesn't. 
CHRIS I got five that says he doesn't live. 
TOD I'll take a dollar of that. 
ROBIN This is crazy! 
Robin refuses to watch.  The others share a look. 
John makes his way along the foot ropes and stands at the end of the yard.  He tosses a look towards Bill but with no way to back down, he launches into the air.  Everyone gasps as he thunders through the air in a broad swan dive. Falling, falling, falling... 
CHUCK Jesus. 
ROBIN I can't watch this. 
John hits the water like a bullet.  The crew run to the side waiting for him to come up.  Nothing.  Finally, he breaks the surface.  Easy.  He climbs up waiting, somehow, to claim victory. 
Suddenly, they all feel it.  A presence.  He has appeared silently on top of the Chart House, like a phantom gazing down at them, back lit by the sun the boys must squint to see him. 
RICHARD SHELDRAKE, (SKIPPER), ageless and windswept, casually reaches up to a block and tackle with one arm and glides to the deck.  He is powerfully built and bronzed from the sea and sun.  He carriers the burden of command like a cross.  Soft-spoken and remote, he is a man to be reckoned with.  The crew know they are in the presence of someone larger than life. 
BILL Skipper on deck! 
The crew line up clumsily.  Skipper has a gaze that blazes right through them. 
He looks out to sea.  Searching, ominous.  He waits until the silence is filled with everyone's attention. 
SKIPPER You know what's out there?  Wind and wave and rain.  Endless glassy pools that'll hold a sailing ship for weeks and then spit her out into the eye of the kind of hurricane.  A blow that could knock the bridge off a battleship.  Reefs and rocks and sandbars that'll tear the belly from her and enough fog and night to hide it all. 
He spits into the water.  The crew sheepishly throw glances to the horizon. 
SKIPPER So look out there... and explain to me why any man in possession of any sense at all, would take on the sea with sail? 
Skipper turns his gaze back to the boys.  There is a fire in his eyes.  Nobody dare answers. 
SKIPPER Because there's something else out there.  It beckons in the wind and sings in the shrouds.  Voices. Whispering... 
His ear to the wind. 
SKIPPER They're voices of men.  Calling.  Men you don't even know.  Men you can't even imagine.  It's a seed, a wish, that part of you and I that aches to be alive, that was banished by everything we've ever been taught or told.  It's a part of us that can only be found on mountain tops and deserts, in the deepest caverns, smoking battle fields and... across oceans. 
He turns back to the sea, dark. 
SKIPPER Out there, is where it all waits. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) He was everything I had expected, part Ahab part Queeg and even Bligh. He spoke in whispers and answered all queries with efficiency and directness.  He had gone to sea for the first time at fifteen, the same age as Bill Butler.  And as he looked upon us that first day it must have been as though he were staring into a mirror. 
Skipper manages a sobering look and climbs on top of the chart house.  He pats a small brass sign that is welded to the main mast and reads the inscription. 
SKIPPER (reading) "Where we go one, we go all." 
With that, he disappears below.  Nobody moves.  This is exactly the kind of man you want around when the shit hits the fan. 
TERRY This -- is gonna be a long eight months. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAY 
The boys devour a hearty breakfast.  Tod is the 'galley slave' and fills glasses with orange juice. 
TOD Chow down boys.  The milk and eggs are the first things to go once we put out. 
John enters balancing two plates heaped with food. 
RICK You know we gotta dumbwaiter for that. 
John looks over to the dumbwaiter mounted in the wall. 
RICK Not that one.  Tod-o here. 
The guys groan. 
TOD Har, har, har... 
John approaches the full table, glaring down at Terry who doesn't notice him.  Finally he looks up, startled. 
FRANCIS I'm Francis Boutillier.  This is my son, Philip. 
SKIPPER I know. 
Francis looks the Skipper over, reading him, smiling. 
SKIPPER You're a day late.  We keep a schedule aboard ship.  Lives depend on it. (to Philip) Hello, Philip. 
PHIL Sir. 
Skipper's directness bugs Francis. 
FRANCIS Your cable said you wouldn't be putting out until mid-October. 
SKIPPER As you can see, there's a lot to do. 
FRANCIS Indentured servitude is not what my son had in mind. 
SKIPPER This is a working ship.  Promptness is not a luxury, it's a necessity, as is the work to maintain her.  Had we been ready, I can assure you we would have sailed. 
Something in this exchange turns the tone of conversation. 
FRANCIS And I would have expected compensation for my time and expense coming all the way down here. 
SKIPPER Happily, it all worked out... This time. (to Bill) Bill, take Philip below and help him find a bunk. 
Phil follows Bill down the companionway. 
FRANCIS I'll be frank with you.  This was his mother's idea.  A romp through the Caribbean on a sailboat sounds more like a vacation than an education if you ask me. 
SKIPPER It will be more than that, I can promise you. 
FRANCIS (cool) Take good care of my son. 
There is threat in his tone. 
SKIPPER We'll do our best.  You're welcome to say goodbye. 
FRANCIS He's a big boy. 
Francis leaves the boat.  Skipper and the crew watch as he climbs into his waiting embassy limousine and drives off. 
LAWFORD Well, that was neighborly. 
SKIPPER He didn't get to be Under Secretary of the Air Force by being neighborly. 
Lawford shakes his head.  Bill comes up through the companionway. 
SKIPPER Everyone aboard young Bill? 
BILL Yes, Sir. 
SKIPPER Good. (beat) Let's go sailing. 
EXT.  ALBATROSS - OPEN WATER - DAY 
The Albatross is under full power.  There is a sense of excitement and anticipation.  Charlie, Rick, Robin, and Lawford are on the halyard for the mainsail.  Skipper is at the helm with Alice and Bill nearby.  Skipper calls over to Chuck who stands alone at the rail. 
SKIPPER Come over here and take the wheel. 
Chuck's eyes light up as he walks over and takes the wheel. 
SKIPPER Hold her steady into the wind. Southwest by west. 
CHUCK Yes sir. 
SKIPPER (to all) Gentleman, when you hear an order, sing out.  I want to know that you've heard and understand. (quietly to Bill) Raise the mainsail. 
BILL (calling out) Raise the main! 
Lawford and his group bellow out. 
TOGETHER Raise the main!! 
Lawford coaches the boys, sending two scurrying on top the chart house to loosen the stops which hold the heavy furled canvas to the main boom.  He guides another to the midships pinrail where the main halyard, which raises the huge sail, is made fast to a belaying pin.  He loosens the halyard and hands it to Robin. 
SKIPPER Take a turn under the pin and lead it out to the others.  You guys in the rear take up the slack.  Heave together now... 
In a beautiful tenor voice, Bill begins to croon a sea chanty, an old whaling song with an Irish lilt. 
BILL (singing) "When the sun came up there was whisky in the cup..." 
The more experienced boys echo the line and pull to the beat. 
BOYS "When the sun came up there was whisky in the cup..." 
LAWFORD Come on the rest of you, sing!  Belt it out like men!! 
The newer guys like Chuck, John, Robin and Terry look at each other like this is the queerest thing they have ever heard of. 
BILL (singing) "Not one of us was a sober..." 
The boys return the verse half heartedly.  Lawford ties off his line and stares them down.  Skipper notices that the work has stopped. 
SKIPPER What's wrong Mr. Lawford. 
LAWFORD It seems we're short on singers. 
Skipper walks amid ship and addresses the crew. 
SKIPPER Everyone sings aboard a wind jammer gentlemen.  It lets everyone know you're in sync.  It shows unity, that all thoughts are one.  A crew that sings together stays together. Besides, I like it.  So, pipe up and be sailors. 
SKIPPER And if I catch anybody, ever, jumping off a yard arm again I will personally break what bones are left and send you home in a wheel chair. 
A wave explodes over the bow.  A wall of water crashes over the deck knocking down several of the boys.  Terry can't take it anymore and explodes. 
TERRY We're gonna die!!!  We're all gonna die! 
He lunges at Skipper but Lawford one arms him. 
SKIPPER Excellent point.  As you might have noticed, being out here pretty much puts you in the moment.  If you panic, if you lose your head, you die.  Maybe you take your mates with you.  How'd you like to have to bet on Terry here getting us home today? Each one of you is responsible for the rest.  "Where we go one, we go all".  If your buddy is asleep at the switch we're all fish food. 
He's making his point which is lost on no one. 
SKIPPER The ship beneath you is not a toy and sailing is not a game.  The Albatross will take us far gentlemen, but she demands constant attention.  Respect her, and we'll do fine.  Oh, and one more thing. There is nothing that goes on, on this boat that I don't know about. She speaks to me in the night.  So don't test me.  Not even a little. 
Skipper walks over and puts an arm around Terry who is fighting sobs. 
SKIPPER Nothing like experience to put things in perspective.  Huh son? (to Bill) Alright.  Let's go home. 
INT.  CHART HOUSE - DAY 
Lawford addresses some of the crew.  Chuck, Robin and John are among them.  John glares at Lawford.  The guys giggle. 
LAWFORD That's not a satisfactory answer. 
JOHN Look, save it for somebody else will ya.  This ancient shit doesn't have anything to do with me. 
Lawford pauses for a moment and then explodes theatrically. 
LAWFORD Shit?!!! 
He slams a text book into John's hands. 
LAWFORD Read for me please the words of Mr. Keats at the bottom of the page. 
John stares back, simmering.  Robin interrupts the potential confrontation and reaches for the book. 
ROBIN I'll read it.  I mean I don't mind. 
JOHN Shut up donut. 
John pushes Robin's hands away and studies the page for a moment.  He begins reading but struggles with the cadence. 
JOHN (reading) Much have I traveled in realms of gold/ And many goodly states and kingdoms seen/ Round many western islands have I been/ Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold/ Oft of one wide expanse had I been told/ That deep-browed Homer ruled as his demesne. 
LAWFORD You know what he is talking about here? 
Blank faces. 
LAWFORD (ranting) Awe.  Humility.  He's telling you that he has traveled the seas as Homer did.  As Ulysses had before him as he tried to find his way home to Ithaca after the Trojan Wars. "That deep browed Homer"... 
He points to his head. 
LAWFORD Brilliant, seasoned, wise, of the mind; "... ruled as his demesne." He commands the voyage of the imagination, like a god. (pause) That is what one of the greatest literary minds of modern times, Mr. Boutillier, has to say about Homer. 
He snatches the book back. 
LAWFORD You think the Odyssey is dull?  I'll tell you something, it's about each one of you -- right now.  Doubt and expectation.  Friendship, community, self sacrifice and accountability. 
He holds up the text. 
LAWFORD This isn't just a story!!  It's history made allegory.  It is a philosophical handbook for life!  It holds the secret of this very voyage. 
JOHN What is it... the secret? 
Lawford breaks into a huge belly laugh. 
JOHN (confused) What? 
LAWFORD If it were only that simple, my young friend.  Read on, gentlemen. Read on. 
EXT.  ALBATROSS - ESTABLISHING - DAY 
Aerial shot.  The Albatross is under full sail leaving Bermuda for the last time. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) And so it was the Albatross that took to the open sea with the wind in her snapping canvas and a bone of white foam in her teeth... In each of us were feelings of anticipation and hesitation for the man at the wheel and of the unfamiliar world he was leading us into. 
She crashes through the surf -- driving, majestic music, building. 
DECK - DAY 
The crew hauls in the line, raising the mainsail.  Chuck struggles to coil the rope as fast as it is coming in. 
ALOFT 
The crew take turns racing up the ratlines into the rigging. 
BOWSPRIT NET 
The crew pull down the jib trying to furl it.  Most of the sail ends up dragging in the water. 
ABOVE 
The squaresails are dropped simultaneously. 
WIDE 
White foam boils from the bow of the Albatross as she crashes through the waves. 
AT THE WHEEL 
Alice smiles and puts her arms around Skipper's waist. It's coming together. 
SKIPPER No.  That's for sure.  Charlie, take his place. 
Phil goes below, a little ashamed.  The crew scatters. Chuck, still at the wheel, pipes up. 
CHUCK If it's all the same, I'd like to stay on deck. 
Skipper regards Chuck, who looks back with both fear and eagerness.  Suddenly he sees something in this kid.  Maybe himself.  He almost smiles.  Almost. 
SKIPPER Take the wheel. 
EXT.  FORETOP - SAME 
Dark clouds blot out the sky and stars.  Thunder rumbles far away.  The seas have built but there's no wind... yet. With no steerage, the ship is tossed. 
Tod hangs high above the heaving deck continuing to furl. The mast swings from side to side, but the air has gone dead calm.  Skipper looks up, anticipating. 
SKIPPER Everyone out of the rigging NOW! 
BILL Everybody down!  ON THE DOUBLE!! 
TOD (shouting) HERE IT COMES!! 
ON THE DECK 
The crew in the rigging scamper down to the safety of the deck. 
SKIPPER Bill, on the wheel with Chuck. 
Bill joins Chuck and takes hold of the wheel.  Then it hits. 
A wall of torrential rain drums the deck amid a tympany of thunder and flashing lightning.  The bow explodes through twelve foot swells.  This is what the Albatross was born to do. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME 
It's all the crew can do to stay in their bunks.  Pots crash, books and personals go flying.  The guys are scared. 
ON DECK 
The main and jib sheets tighten.  Skipper looks at Chuck and Bill.  It all comes down to moments like these and he loves it. 
Suddenly, there is a loud CRACK!  A violent flapping noise.  Skipper leaps to the port and looks forward.  Tod comes running back. 
TOD We blew the inner! 
ALICE I'll go. 
SKIPPER Bring it down and run up the storm jib.  We'll fix it later.  Stay out of reach of the blocks! 
Tod and Alice disappear. 
SKIPPER (with a twinkle) Well, we're in it now. 
Chuck studies him, frightened, but reassured. 
EXT.  BOW - SAME 
The shredded jib and rigging whip violently in the wind. The block smashes into the gunnel rail, shattering it.  No one dares go near it.  For a moment, it seems to hang there seductively.  John, naive of its power, leaps for the rail and grabs it. 
ALICE NOOO!!! 
Suddenly, the wind cracks the sail instantly hurling John high off the deck and over the side.  He holds on for dear life, screaming. 
AT THE WHEEL 
SKIPPER (to Chuck) Hold her steady. 
Skipper bolts forward. 
AT THE BOW 
Alice uncleats the jib halyard, leaving one turn on the pin and shoves it into Tod's hands. 
ALICE Release this when I tell you!! 
Skipper joins Tod as Alice scrambles along the deck and pulls herself into the bowsprit netting.  When the block and jib swing inboard, she grabs for the leach of the sail yelling... 
ALICE NOW!!! 
As John is snapped inboard Alice leaps up, grabbing the sail, leaning out over the open water.  Waves explode through the netting.  As Tod releases the halyard, John falls to the deck, bruised, humbled, but alive.  Lawford and Skipper pull Alice from the bowsprit. 
Skipper looks her over.  Relieved.  No broken bones.  Good work.  But then this is what he expects.  He respects her and now, everyone can see why.  He looks at John sprawled on the deck. 
SKIPPER Be careful will ya? 
JOHN What ever you say Cap... 
SKIPPER Let's get that storm jib up. 
Skipper gives Alice a private look, then returns to the stern where Chuck holds tightly onto the wheel. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) The storm lasted sixteen hours and it set us all on equal footing.  It was the first time that we shared an episode on an even plane.  As we stood our watches we were equally out of control of our situation, regardless of our physical abilities or social backgrounds.  And though our real feelings lay hidden beneath bravado and defiance, we were no longer strangers. 
EXT.  DECK - DAY 
The crew is cleaning up.  Alice supervises repairs to the jib while others stow line, scrub the deck and chip paint. Lawford paces. 
LAWFORD You know what they say in the Navy don't you? 
RICK What's that, Big Daddy? 
The more experienced crew members have heard this all before. 
SKIPPER Start the engine.  All ahead full!! Scallop the Square and drop the rest!! 
He shoots a glare at Tod and Chris. 
TOD (bewildered) I don't know what happened Skipper. It just blew out. 
Skipper turns to the task at hand without a word.  What had been praise is now reduced to embarrassment and confusion. 
Phil, still hidden behind the chart house returns the spear gun and smiles to himself at Tod's arrogance turned humility. 
EXT.  DECK - TOBAGO CAYS - DAY 
The Albatross has dropped anchor along a remote group of flat, lush atolls.  Tall palm trees grow almost to the waters edge.  The crew have the mainsail down and Alice supervises the repair of the sail.  Phil sits above it all sunning himself in the bowswain's chair. 
ROBIN Where are you from any way? 
CHUCK Depths of hell... Ohio.  How 'bout you? 
ROBIN Kennet Square, PA.  'Mushroom capital of the world'. 
TOD Sorry to here it. 
CHUCK Well, and it's pretty cool too, ya know?  Bein' here together an all... 
Phil reels himself down. 
PHIL Christ, I'm gonna choke on 'feel good'... 
Robin looks up, taken back. 
TOD Why are you such a penis Phil.  Do you do it on purpose or can't you help it. 
PHIL Tug my chain Johnstone. 
Skipper comes on deck.  Robin and Chuck flip Phil and Terry the finger. 
SKIPPER After midterms we'll finish our run down to Curacao. 
The crew reacts, grumbling. 
SKIPPER I have arranged to host a good will cruise for the Dutch students of the local school there. 
PHIL (to Terry) Joy, rapture... 
SKIPPER Each one of you will be responsible for one student.  I'll expect you to be courteous.  You represent this school and your country.  We'll sail in the morning. 
George appears from the galley and rings the ships bell. 
GEORGE That's chow. 
The crew drop what they're doing and stampede down into the cabin. 
INT.  CABIN - NIGHT 
Robin thrashes in his bunk calling out.  Sweat glistens on his face.  Chuck stumbles out to his bunk with Rick and some of the others. 
RICK Hey man, wake up.  Wake up! 
They shake him.  Robin wakes, disoriented, eyes filled with tears. 
ROBIN I was falling... 
Phil grumbles from his bunk. 
PHIL Hey, shut up will ya? 
CHUCK It was a bad dream... 
ROBIN It was so real... 
CHUCK Here's the thing; whenever you're having a nightmare, all you have to do is say 1-2-3 wake up!  You'll be out of it.  You'll wake up. 
Phil rolls over in his bunk trying to go back to sleep. 
ROBIN Who told you that? 
CHUCK My dad. 
ROBIN It works? 
CHUCK Swear to God.  Only good advice he ever gave me.  Now, go back to sleep. 
He pats Robin on the leg.  The guys return to their bunks. Favor Phil, listening. 
CHUCK (lingering) You okay now? 
Robin stares at the photo of his brother. 
ROBIN That's how he died you know. 
CHUCK Who? 
ROBIN My brother.  He fell out of the old beech tree.  Broke his neck.  I was on a camp out.  They started going at it, throwin' things, a real knock down... (beat) They didn't find him 'till the next morning.  They didn't even know why he was up there. 
CHUCK Jesus, you never told them? 
ROBIN I couldn't. 
Phil stares at the ceiling, affected by what he has overheard.  Someone creeps down the companionway and whispers. 
MIKE (hushed) Hey you guys, come on! 
PHIL Long enough. 
John looks down, resigned. 
JOHN They were gonna put me into special- ed this year.  I stole a copy of my transcript, changed all the grades. Shit, who am I kidding.  I'll never pass the boards. 
CHUCK Listen, you don't cheat, and we'll make sure you get the grades.  We'll start a private study group.  Nobody knows.  You'll ace that test. 
ROBIN I'm in. 
They turn and look to Phil, who still shows the tell-tail signs of their fight. 
PHIL Me, too. 
JOHN Why would you do that? 
CHUCK Because we believe in you. (beat) Because we're your friends. 
EXT.  CURACAO - HARBOR - DUSK 
As a blazing sun sizzles into the western sea, the Albatross rounds a point and heads towards the docks several hundred yards away.  On the dock, the students of the school wait.  As soon as the ship is in view, they start to cheer.  Chuck squints. 
CHUCK What are they doing? 
ROBIN I can't make it out? 
Robin calls up to Phil, who is at the wheelhouse. 
ROBIN Hey, Phil... Swing up the 'binocs' and tell us what you see. 
Phil picks up the binoculars and focuses. 
PHIL (puzzled) They're waving... handkerchiefs or something. 
RICK What? 
CHARLIE Maybe they're surrendering. 
PHIL Wait a second... 
Phil lowers the binoculars and turns to Skipper. 
PHIL They're girls!  They're all girls! 
Skipper shares a knowing look with Alice. 
TOD Gimme those. 
Tod snatches the binoculars. 
TOD WHHOOOOAAAAA!!!!!!  WOMEN!!! 
Everyone on board rushes to the port side.  Every single person on the dock is a young girl waving a white handkerchief.  Spontaneous cheers from the boys. 
As the 'Big A' pulls to the dock, John and Tod run for the gunnel door and swing it open.  The girls flood the deck. 
BILL Good morning, ladies. 
They chatter in Dutch and hurry aboard.  Like wall flowers, Robin, Phil and Chuck stand on top of the chart house watching utopia unfold before them. 
ROBIN What are we supposed to talk about? 
PHIL You've gotta be kidding? 
ROBIN But, they don't speak English. 
PHIL There are some things that everybody does in the same language. 
CHUCK Yeah, but how are you supposed to make the first move? 
PHIL Like this! 
Phil reaches up for a free line.  With a running start he swings out over the water... 
PHIL Yeeee Haaaaa!! 
He careens back onto the deck and lands in front of two startled, but impressed girls.  Robin and Chuck applaud. Phil takes a bow.  All hell is breaking loose. 
Skipper and Alice welcome aboard the headmaster, MS. BOYDE, 50's, dumpy but tough. 
SKIPPER A very enthusiastic welcome. 
MS. BOYDE We don't often have guests.  Our girls have been looking forward to your visit for some time.  Welcome to Curacao. 
SKIPPER Thank you.  You're all ready to sail then? 
MS. BOYDE I should think so. 
ALICE I'm sure they won't be disappointed. 
A man's voice bellows up from the dock. 
FRANCIS (O.S.) Ahoy there!! 
Everyone stops and freezes.  Phil turns, disbelieving. It's his parents, Francis and PEGGY BOUTILLIER, standing next to a limousine dressed in brightly colored tourist garb. 
PEGGY Surprise! 
FRANCIS Well, well.  What do we have here? A floating brothel? 
ALICE (cool) Hardly. 
PHIL I can take care of myself. 
FRANCIS (sarcastic) Oh, really? 
PHIL Look, you put me on this boat in the first place.  I didn't want to come but I did.  Why do you have to embarrass me.  Why can't you just leave me alone? 
Francis slaps Phil across the face nearly knocking him out of his chair.  Everyone and everything.  It's humiliating. 
PEGGY Francis!! 
She cradles Phil's red face.  He fights the tears. 
FRANCIS Listen to me, you thankless little prick.  We're your parents, so don't you dare talk to me disrespectfully. What the hell is it, this captain? Because I'll see him in a rowboat... 
PHIL It has nothing to do with him. 
FRANCIS Well, what does it have to do with? Us? 
PHIL No.  Look, it's me okay?  Can't it just be about me?  For once? 
Phil pulls free and exits.  He can feel eyes all over him. 
EXT.  SCHOOL - GARDENS - NIGHT 
Alice watches, swept up in the nostalgic romance of it all.  Skipper joins her. 
SKIPPER He would have loved this. 
ALICE Your father? 
SKIPPER All his years at sea, he never stopped talking about these islands. 
ALICE You miss him. 
Skipper manages a sad smile. 
SKIPPER Every hour.  Every minute. (pause) I wish he was here.  I wish he could have sailed our girl.  Seen these boys... 
She smiles warmly. 
SKIPPER I'd have liked to have said goodbye. 
ALICE He knows. 
SKIPPER You sound so sure. 
ALICE I am about this. 
Skipper turns and stares at her deeply. 
ALICE What? 
SKIPPER He never would have believed a woman like you existed. 
Alice smiles and turns back to the dancers. 
ALICE Do you remember the last time you and I danced under the stars? 
SKIPPER Guilty. 
ALICE On the deck of the Yankee, the night you asked me to marry you.  We weren't much older than they are. 
The music changes to a calypso waltz.  Skipper takes Alice by the hand. 
SKIPPER Would you allow me? 
She's sixteen again.  There's something about him that still makes her blush. 
Skipper leads her to the dance floor.  He hesitates, looking deeply into her eyes.  As they begin to dance, the boys notice and exchange looks. 
Lawford and George sit across the quad, sipping punch and smoking cigars. 
GEORGE If I didn't know better I'd say the old man was acting almost halfway human. 
LAWFORD He is halfway human. 
One by one the couples clear for the Skipper and his bride.  They glide, lost in each others arms.  They dance a dance for the ages.  As if it might be for the last time.  The music swells. 
EXT.  PIER - NIGHT 
Chuck and Bregitta, are at the end of the pier, a full moon hangs above the horizon.  Bregitta doesn't understand what Chuck is saying, but it's clear she's enjoying him. 
CHUCK I can't remember feeling like this about myself, a place, someone like you.  We've come such a long way, seen so much.  But nothing like this. 
Bregitta smiles and takes Chuck's hand.  He's nervous. 
CHUCK I'm not the best at expressing myself.  Maybe the only reason I can now is because I know you don't understand me. (beat) I like you so much.  Too much.  But how could I?  I mean, if we can't even communicate, how could I know you?  It's confusing.  We sail in an hour and I'll never see you again. 
Bregitta takes Chuck's face gently and kisses him tenderly.  Then, in perfect English... 
BREGITTA I like you, too. 
Chuck's eyes widen, astonished.  Bregitta smiles, takes Chuck by the hand, and leads him to a small covered boat moored to the pier. 
BREGITTA Come on.  We don't have much time. 
Blushing deeply, Chuck follows her into the boat. 
EXT.  STREET - SAME 
Robin walks down the street hand in hand with one of the girls.  A long string of colored lights illuminate the length of the street.  Robin clumsily tries to kiss the girl.  She laughs. 
Alice shakes her head and gently strokes the dolphin. 
ALICE It's through her lung. 
Skipper turns to Phil. 
SKIPPER (to Phil) Nice shot. 
Phil looks up at the crew but one by one they look away. Chuck finds this confusing and inexcusable but is the last to look away.  Skipper grimly walks over to one of the deck lockers and pulls out a large wooden mallet and holds it out to Phil. 
SKIPPER Finish it. 
Phil looks at the mallet, horrified. 
PHIL (stammering) I'm not gonna kill it. 
SKIPPER You already have.  Now go on.  Do it. 
Phil backs away.  Skipper stares at him for a moment, then walks over to the dolphin.  Robin looks away.  The sickening sound of the mallet crushing the skull of the animal seems to silence the world.  There are one of two thumps of her tail and, it's over. 
Skipper tosses the bloody mallet into the locker and approaches Phil, his face flushed with anger.  He grabs the spear gun, and snaps it across his knee and throws the pieces into the sea. 
SKIPPER What the hell is wrong with you?! 
Phil begins to shake with rage. 
SKIPPER Come on.  You got so much fight in you; you wanna kill something?  Take your best shot.  The first one's free. 
Robin holds his ears as if he can make it all go away. For a brief moment Phil looks as if he might take Skipper up on the challenge.  Then the impulse passes. 
SKIPPER That's what I thought. (beat) You're done.  You're going home. 
Skipper turns.  The humiliation is more than Phil can take.  He lunges after Skipper.  Lawford grabs him.  Phil swings wildly. 
PHIL You mean-assed bastard!!  You son of a bitch!!  You can't do this!!!  You can't do this!!!  God damn you!! God damn you!! 
Lawford leads Phil, struggling, below.  The crew surround the dead dolphin, stunned. 
EXT.  ARUBA - ESTABLISHING - DAY 
The Albatross is at anchor in the center of the harbor. 
EXT.  DECK - SAME 
Phil comes on deck from below with his duffel bag. Everyone feels bad but no one knows what to say.  Phil turns to get a second load. 
CHUCK Why'd you do it? 
PHIL (regretting it) What's the difference? 
CHUCK You only hurt yourself you know? 
PHIL Like you really care.  Like any of you give a shit what happens to me. 
RICK You're the one who doesn't care, Phil. 
PHIL It hurts too much to care. 
RICK About yourself? 
PHIL About anything. 
Phil turns and disappears down the companionway. 
ROBIN We shouldn't be putting him off the boat. 
CHRIS The guy's out of control. 
ROBIN Everybody's been outta control on this trip. (beat) Are we a crew or not?  I mean, isn't that what this is supposed to be all about? 
MIKE You're the last person who should be whining about being a "crew". 
ROBIN How do you figure that? 
MIKE Well, I'd sure like to go into the subject of vertigo and all, but I wouldn't want you to piss yourself. 
Robin flushes bright red.  John fires a look at Mike. 
JOHN You're a regular prick you know that? 
MIKE Tell it to the dolphin, Goodall. 
JOHN Everybody deserves a second chance, ya know?  We'd do the same for you Mike. 
ROBIN It's about family isn't it?  I mean are we together on this or not? 
There is a long pause.  Mike and Chris cave. 
MIKE Hell, do what ever you want.  It won't change anything anyway. 
Robin exchanges a glance with Chuck and together, they climb up the companionway. 
EXT.  CHART HOUSE - SAME 
Chuck and Robin stand before the door. 
ROBIN I can't go in there. 
CHUCK What are you talking about. 
Robin turns away, ashamed. 
SKIPPER Well, he better learn to own it. Actions have consequences. (beat) It's not what happens here Alice, it's what they take away with them. 
Alice runs her hands across his face. 
ALICE You're still an idealist. 
Skipper turns and slips into her arms. 
SKIPPER Oh hell... 
EXT.  DECK - DAY 
Phil is in the long boat with Skipper, ready to shove off. Tension is high.  It's as though they're all waiting for Skipper to give Phil a reprieve.  But, it's not coming. They mumble goodbyes.  Terry and Rick pass down Phil's bags. 
RICK Good luck. 
Phil nods and turns to Skipper. 
PHIL I'm ready. 
Skipper starts to pull the oars to make the crossing to the dock as the crew watches them go.  Robin turns, staring at the ships bell. 
EXT.  DOCK - SAME 
Skipper ties off the boat and Phil hands up his bags.  A black limousine waits, brooding.  Phil climbs up with Skipper and stands, stares at it.  The back door opens, but nobody gets out. 
EXT.  ALBATROSS - SAME 
The crew stand, watching. 
CHARLIE His ol' man's gonna eat him for lunch. 
JOHN I know what that's like. 
RICK Yeah. 
Then, suddenly... 
CHUCK My god... 
All stares aloft.  In the rigging, climbing up the mast, is Robin.  With the ships bell in his teeth, he is sweating every rung.  Perspiration glistens on his brow. The crew watches, transfixed as he fights his way towards the foretop. 
EXT.  DOCK - SAME 
Phil turns to Skipper.  Working up some courage to say something, anything.  But all that comes out is... 
PHIL I'm sorry. 
A pause between them. 
SKIPPER I know, Phil. 
Skipper extends a hand and they shake.  Phil is about to turn, when a familiar sound draws their attention. 
EXT.  FORETOP - SAME 
Robin, holding on for dear life at the top of the mast, rings the ships bell triumphantly over his head, waving to Phil.  Victorious.  Ding ding!  Ding ding!  Ding ding! The crew begin to cheer. 
EXT.  DOCK - SAME 
Phil stares back, fighting his emotions.  Slowly he raises his hand in a single wave of acknowledgement.  The ringing stops as his eyes meet Robin's.  Waves back.  Skipper turns. 
SKIPPER They never gave up on you, you know. 
Phil chews on it.  Then... 
PHIL Tell 'em I said... thanks. (beat) Goodbye Skipper. 
ROBIN'S POV 
Robin watches as the limo pulls away.  He rings the bell wildly.  The crew below wave in a show of silent protest. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) As Robin rang him out, we waved in silent protest against Skipper's decision.  And in the days that followed the low morale was matched only by a sense of arrogance that perhaps the master should step down and let his students take over. 
AERIAL SHOT 
Robin, the Albatross and the drama unfolding below spin slowly away as we climb, turning, higher and higher. 
EXT.  ALBATROSS - ESTABLISHING - DAY 
Foam sprays from her bow as the Albatross slices through the swells. 
INT.  CABIN - SAME 
Tod exits the head with a worried look on his face.  He grabs Chuck by the arm and pulls him aside.  Morale is extremely low. 
TOD Listen man, I think I have a problem. 
CHUCK We all have problems. 
TOD I'm pissin' fire man. 
Chuck reacts. 
INT.  SKIPPER'S CABIN - DAY 
Tight on Alice.  Pull back to reveal Tod standing in front of her with his shorts down around his ankles.  Mortified. 
ALICE Have a nice time in Curacao, did you Tod? 
Alice gets up and moves to her medicine chest.  Tod starts to pull up his shorts. 
One of the Cubans pulls Terry out of line and brings him forward.  He alerts the Commander in Spanish. 
COMMANDER Stow away? 
SKIPPER He left his passport in Curacao. It's being mailed to Panama. 
COMMANDER That is unfortunate.  We'll have to take him with us. 
Terry is petrified. 
LAWFORD If he's a Cuban, Castro wears a dress. 
SKIPPER Nobody aboard my ship is going anywhere. 
Skipper stares him down.  The Commander signals to one of his men who disappears into the Chart House. 
COMMANDER Perhaps in appreciation for our country's pursuit of peace, you might offer us some, token of gratitude. 
Skipper doesn't really have a choice. 
SKIPPER What do you want? 
The Cuban returns from the Chart House with the Ships sextant and hands it to the Commander. 
COMMANDER This.  And... 
Pointing to the ships compass. 
COMMANDER ... and that. 
GEORGE You've got to be kidding!! 
SKIPPER (cold) Take it. 
Without hesitation the Cubans pull the large brass compass from its base. 
SKIPPER Now, get the hell off my ship. 
As they leave the ship, they pause.  The Commander looks back at the Skipper, then deliberately drops both sextant and compass into the sea. 
COMMANDER You'll really have something to teach your students now. 
Skipper stands towering above them.  The Cuban captain smiles up at him.  Amazingly, Skipper addresses him in perfect Spanish. 
SKIPPER Las estrellas es lo unico, que un marinero verdadero se mesesita para encontrarse.  Verdade Patron? 
The Cubans stare back, frowning, amazed as they motor away. 
The crew are stunned by what they have just witnessed. Skipper turns and meets the eyes of admiration, humility and complete respect.  He joins Alice at the helm.  They linger for a moment. 
CHUCK What'd he say? 
George smiles, impressed as well. 
GEORGE He told them real sailors need only the stars. 
With a new attitude, they turn to Skipper. 
SKIPPER Alright then, let's get outta here. 
The crew bolt to there positions. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) With staff and string he showed us how to build a sextant.  As we rode the trades, he shared the ancient secrets of how to read the waves and follow stars.  And some mornings later, bathed in the orange glow of a sunrise, Panama rose from the sea like a phoenix. 
EXT.  ALBATROSS - PANAMA CANAL - DAY 
Panama appears on the horizon.  The Albatross is dwarfed by the huge freighters moored around her, as she moves through the locks.  The crew stand on deck in quiet reverence. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - NIGHT 
The sounds of slumber fill the cabin.  All seems well with the world.  Suddenly, silhouettes in the darkness.  A huge bearded figure stands in the center of the cabin with a trident in his hand. 
Chuck wakes with a start.  He bolts upright to see the horrible figure of NEPTUNE himself (Lawford) towering before him.  He tries to scream, but hands cover his mouth.  He is dragged, struggling, up the companionway. 
EXT.  DECK - NIGHT 
The Albatross has been transformed into a ghost ship. Where the sails once were, only shredded fabric.  All of the crew have been brought on deck.  Powdered faces glow, surreal. 
John's head has been shaved into a mohawk.  Robin, Rick and Chris have been reduced to crew cuts.  The shears start over Chuck's head.  Neptune and his sidekick, DAVEY JONES (George) and two MERMAIDS (Bill and Alice) emerge with the rest of the crew. 
NEPTUNE Hold fast that polliwog and make him presentable. 
Chuck struggles as his hair is shaved away and face powdered. 
NEPTUNE Let it be known that on this day in the year nineteen hundred and sixty- one there appeared within the limits of my royal kingdom, the sailing ship brigantine Albatross, bound for Galapagos.  All vessels that sail my domain shall be subject to the scrutiny of the underworld... 
Terry is brought topside kicking and screaming. 
NEPTUNE Silence!!! 
Terry shuts up and succumbs to the same fate as the rest. 
NEPTUNE Tonight you shall all enter the Order of the Shellbacks.  Only when you have been duly initiated shall you enjoy the mysteries and protection of the trident.  So, let the festivities begin... 
EXT.  HELM - NIGHT 
Neptune and his court sit smoking Havana cigars as each member of the crew present themselves.  Robin dressed like a pig and crawls around snorting. 
John's an Indian brave, whooping and hollering as he does a rain dance.  Chuck, with flippers on his hands and feet, hops around like a frog.  Rick is in 'drag' as Neptune's girlfriend and must sing everything he says.  Charlie is dressed like a sloth and slithers along the deck. Frenetic chaos. 
EXT.  DECK - LATER 
EXT.  DECK - SAME 
The crew stand at their posts.  The yards and foretop are trimmed with sailors, their faces taught and their bodies hard.  No one looks back. 
EXT.  DECK - PANAMA CANAL - DAY 
Alice steps onto the deck from the chart house with papers in her hands. 
ALICE Well gentlemen, I have the results of your college board scores.  I think most of you will be pleased. 
The crew members collect their exams.  Chuck notices John at the bow, alone, lost. 
CHUCK You okay? 
JOHN Yeah.  How'd you do. 
Chuck looks down at his exam apprehensively. 
CHUCK Ninety-six. 
JOHN Congratulations. 
CHUCK What about you? 
John slowly passes his test to Chuck. 
CHUCK It's a ninety-one!  It's an 'A'! 
JOHN I know. 
CHUCK (excited) You know?  Then why are you up here looking like you're about to jump overboard?! 
JOHN I just can't believe it. 
CHUCK This is your moment, don't you see? The instant when you know that your life is never going to be the same again.  When you stand up and are counted. 
John tries to choke back his emotions. 
JOHN I couldn't have done it without you. 
CHUCK Yes you could.  You did. (holding up the exam) This is all you.  Nobody else. 
John looks out. 
JOHN Thank you. 
Chuck smiles and joins John's gaze over the water. 
CHUCK Feels different doesn't it? 
JOHN What? 
CHUCK That we're going back.  I don't want it to end.  I don't want to be what I was when I left. 
JOHN What was that? 
CHUCK Anonymous. 
Chuck looks at his test grimacing. 
CHUCK I've been getting ninety-sixes my whole life.  It's what they expect. After all this, I still haven't figured it out. 
JOHN Figured what out? 
CHUCK Who I am, outside of this boat. What the hell I'm doing here. 
JOHN I'll tell you who you are.  You're the glue.  You're the thing that holds everybody around you together. You're strong, you listen and you see things in people the rest of us can't.  It's a gift. 
It's Chuck's turn to fight emotion. 
CHUCK You know, I never had friends like this. 
JOHN Me either. 
CHUCK I feel like... we can do anything. 
John smiles, clutching his exam. 
JOHN We can. 
OLDER CHUCK (V.O.) In the fading hours of that Pacific dusk, with nothing left to confess, for the first time we felt safe, capable, sure of who we were and where we were going. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAWN 
The crew sleep in their bunks.  Lawford's voice rumbles down the companionway. 
LAWFORD A wet sheet and a flowing sea/ A wind that follows fast, And fills the white and rushing sail, And bends the gallant mast/ Arise, arise you salty dogs.  The watch is on. 
Chuck, Tom, John, Terry and Tod roll out.  The dumb waiter clatters down from the galley with the morning's breakfast.  Skipper and some of the crew are already eating. 
EXT.  DECK - DAY 
The Albatross is under full sail trying to take advantage of what little wind there is.  The skies are gray and dank.  Tod and Terry are at the helm.  Chuck and John are amid ship.  John relieves Bill on the forward watch. 
CHUCK Looks like we're gonna get wet. 
BILL Well, we need it.  I want to take a nice long bath and catch some water for my laundry. 
JOHN Save some for me will you? 
BILL You got it.  I'm going below. 
But after only two swings, the Albatross and Alice, slip beneath the sea. 
INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME 
Water thunders in from every possible exit.  Chris and Rick push Bill towards the dumbwaiter. 
RICK Bill, you go.  We'll be right behind you. 
Before he can say no, Rick and Chris jam Bill into the tiny shaft.  Suddenly, from below, a tremendous geyser smashes him to the top, knocking him unconscious.  But the pressure is so great that the water sweeps him through the galley and out onto the deck. 
EXT.  DECK - SAME 
Skipper struggles to reach John and the second life boat but sees that it is tangled in the rigging. 
SKIPPER Johnny, it's not good. 
John defies him and keeps cutting.  The ship is almost completely submerged. 
JOHN I can get it! 
Suddenly one of the deck lockers breaks free and plunges into the water taking lines and rope with it.  John becomes tangled and is dragged into the water.  Only his superior strength allows him to hold onto the lifeboat and keep cutting. 
The Albatross slips beneath the surface.  Instead of trying to free himself John keeps slashing at the lifeboat lines as he disappears, swallowed by the sea. 
INT.  FORWARD COMPARTMENT - SAME 
Eerie silence.  Lawford is trapped in an tiny air pocket. Debris float around.  He begins to panic as the water around him rises. 
LAWFORD My God!!  Oh God I'm dying!!! 
He takes a deep breath and the water consumes him.  Then suddenly, the ceiling above him explodes from the pressure within. 
ON THE SURFACE 
Lawford is catapulted from the grip of death, to the surface. 
EXT.  SURFACE - SAME 
Chuck continues to frantically dive on the chart house door as the ship takes the 'Deep Six'.  Suddenly the ship rolls 180 degrees, her screws exposed and keel jutting up like a huge dorsal fin. 
EXT.  UNDERWATER - SAME 
Chuck feels the ship coming down on top of him but still finds Robin's arm.  They clasp tightly, but Chuck just can't budge the door.  Then, strangely, Robin releases Chuck's arm and pulls it back through the door.  Chuck looks up, startled.  The small round window in the door is illuminated from the cabin lights on the inside. 
Through the glass, Chuck meets Robin's frightened eyes. He fights to stay in a shrinking air pocket.  Robin takes a last gulp of air then, a calm comes over him. 
He meets Chuck's eyes again but this time with a strange acceptance.  They both know what's happening.  But Robin has refused to take his friend to the bottom with him.  He presses his hand to the glass.  Chuck does the same.  Then with a smile, Robin pushes himself away from the door, disappearing into the darkness and eternity. 
EXT.  SURFACE - SAME 
Chuck breaks the surface, gasping for air.  He looks around, frantic.  He sees nothing but the sea swells and debris.  All that remains is the sound of the wind and rain on the water. 
Suddenly, beneath him, a massive rumbling and explosion of foam.  Then, the tops of twin masts rise out of the water like shattered lances as the ship rights herself underwater.  She holds herself steady for a moment as if in a final attempt at resurrection, the Albatross begins to rise.  Faster and faster, until her entire length explodes out of the water in a mountain of foam and wave. 
ON THE DECK 
Like Ahab before him, John appears, lashed in a web of tangled line still slashing to free the remaining long boat. 
And for a moment, it looks as if she might stay there, as if this were just a final surreal lesson of the sea.  Some of the boys begin to cheer prematurely.  But Skipper knows better.  She's filled to the gills with sea water. 
She shutters.  Then, like a stone, she just drops, sucked to the center of the earth, John's hands still slashing, as she finally goes. 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL 
Survivors hanging onto the debris that floats in the watery tempest.  Strangely, the wind subsides.  The sea becomes calm and a stunned silence falls over those in the water. 
CHUCK OH GOD!!!!! 
His scream echoes, for the grief of all. 
ON THE SURFACE 
There is an explosion of bubbles, and then she slips beneath the waves like a stone.  The stunned crew can only watch. 
Then, as if by magic, the second life boat erupts to the surface. 
Skipper fights off his emotions.  He knows what it means. John died cutting it free. 
Terry and Bill hang onto a life ring.  Blood runs from Bill's head.  Charlie, Mike and several others hold onto the side of the other freed life boat which has been swamped.  Lawford floats on his back, unconscious, but alive.  Several of the boys help pull him towards the boat. 
Skipper swims to the second boat, desperately looking for those not accounted for.  But, they are gone. 
Among the wreckage, the roof of the chart house.  The only sound left is the ominous tolling of the ship's bell, Robin's bell, still secure in it's fitting. 
EXT.  LIFE BOAT - DAY 
The boats have been floated and tied together.  Skipper is in one, Lawford in the other.  One of the two boats has been rigged with sail.  Skipper stands in the bow staring into the ink blue water. 
SKIPPER Raise your sail, Bill.  North, north- east.  Keep a sharp look out for Florida. 
Bill studies him for a moment, then... 
BILL Maybe we could wait around a little longer, sir... 
There is a long pause before Skipper answers. 
SKIPPER (quietly) She's gone... She's gone. 
There is something remarkably touching about this young man trying to take care of him.  He puts a hand on Skipper's shoulder.  It almost makes him crack.  He pats Bill's hand gently. 
SKIPPER Carry on. 
Reporters corner them blocking his view.  More reporters clamor after Skipper, who doesn't reply. 
REPORTER #3 Captain, is it true that the ship was hit by a "White Squall"? 
REPORTER #2 Is it true the first mate is only fifteen? 
Bill steps in between them. 
BILL It wasn't his fault mister... 
REPORTER #4 The National Weather Service says "White Squalls" are a meteorological phenomenon of the imagination. Would you care to comment of that? Don't you have anything to say to these parents?!! 
The reporter pops a flash picture in Skipper's face. Skipper flies around and knocks the camera to the ground. The reporter jumps back, startled. 
SKIPPER Yes I do.  And it's private.  Very private. 
Skipper is swept away towards the CUSTOMS BOOTH by COAST GUARD OFFICERS.  Skipper surrenders the manifest and it is stapled to the outside of the door. 
INT.  CUSTOMS HUT - SAME 
Skipper is whisked inside.  The Coast Guard Officers lock the doors behind them. 
OFFICER Sit down Captain.  We'll have a car here in a few minutes.  Can I get you a cup of coffee? 
SKIPPER No, thank you. 
Skipper sits.  The wails of family members can be heard as they see the list outside.  Flash bulbs and faces press against the windows shouting questions.  He just stares at the floor. 
OUTSIDE 
From above we can see the group swarm around the the booth like angry hornets.  The crew are fractured and pulled apart from each other.  Charles, fights his way through the crowd. 
CHARLES Chuck!  Chuck!!! 
Chuck tries to get to him. 
CHUCK Dad! 
They embrace.  Flash bulbs explode all around them. 
CHUCK Where's Mom? 
CHARLES I couldn't bring her down here until I knew you were safe. 
A WOMAN 
Stands, staring at the empty ramp.  Lost.  A man comes up behind her and leads her away. 
A reporter shoves a microphone in Chuck's face. 
REPORTER #5 Was it the Skipper's fault?  And is it true drinking was permitted on board?  Why did the ship really go down? 
Charles grabs the guy and shoves him back into the crowd. Chuck strains to see his crew mates but they have been swept away. 
CHARLES Come on. 
Charles puts his arm around Chuck, still barefoot, and together, they walk away.  Photographers trail after them, popping off a few last photos.  Chuck turns and looks back. 
INT.  CAR MOVING - DOWNTOWN - DAY 
A ride reminiscent of the one Chuck and his father took before the journey began.  There is a gulf of silence between them.  Charles breaks it. 
CHARLES I thought we'd find a store, get you fixed up and then get you some lunch.  That sound good? 
CHUCK Yeah, sure. 
Chuck stares out the window at the traffic and congestion. A car in front of them runs a red light.  Charles slams on the brakes.  Chuck is shaken up.  Charles notices. 
CHARLES I'm sorry, son.  Are you okay? 
Chuck manages a nod. 
INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY 
Lavish and conspicuous by Chuck's recent standards, the store is crowded and jammed with merchandise. Claustrophobic.  Cash registers ring and MUZAK drifts in from above.  Chuck follows as Charles pulls things off of hangers and piles them into Chuck's arms. 
CHARLES Why don't you go and try some of that on? 
CHUCK Okay. 
EXT.  DRESSING ROOM - DAY 
Charles peruses the racks.  He calls to Chuck. 
CHARLES How're you doing in there? 
Chuck calls from a dressing room. 
CHUCK (O.S.) Fine. 
CHARLES All right.  I'm gonna wander over and look at some shoes... 
INT.  DRESSING ROOM - SAME 
Chuck is curled up in the floor of the tiny booth.  Still dressed in the clothes from the Gran Rio, perspiration beads on his skin. 
CHUCK (calling out) Okay. 
Tears stream down his face.  He looks up and sees himself in the mirror.  The eyes that look back are eyes of the ages.  Involuntary sobs.  He begins to shake.  The tiny booth suddenly like a crypt.  Tight, with no air.  Chuck lets out a gasp. 
CHUCK Oh God... 
TERRY It was an act of stupidity. 
Tod lunges at Terry.  Bill and Charlie pull them apart. 
TOD (screaming) Was it my fault we were running all that sail?!  Was it my fault she wasn't dogged down?!!  HUH?!!  I couldn't help that the ballast shifted...!  You son of a bitch!! It wasn't my fault!!  it wasn't. 
Tod breaks down, sodding on his knees. 
BILL It's okay, Tod. 
Terry drags on a cigarette, then grinds out the butt. 
TERRY Then whose? 
Tod looks up along with Bill and Charlie, all confused. 
TERRY After the lightning strike, we tried to go aloft to drop sail.  We'd done it a thousand times.  We didn't have to wait for an order.  But Skipper called us down. 
CHARLIE If the foremast had taken a strike, everyone in the rigging would've been fried.  What would you have done? 
TERRY We would have scalloped the squares from the deck.  Right Bill? 
Bill turns and stares into the water, troubled. 
TOD That's right, that's right!  Bleed the sails from the deck and she could've taken a hurricane! 
It's a strong argument.  Even Charlie is troubled by the implication.  There is a long moment of silence between them. 
CHUCK This is crazy.  Nothing could have prevented what happened. 
MIKE You guys are missing the point. This is all because of Phil.  Phil and his dear old dad. 
BILL What? 
MIKE How do you think they got this together so fast?  He's been laying for Skipper since the first day. 
CHARLIE Come on.  Like he's got a vendetta or some such shit? 
MIKE You got it. (to Chuck) I told you he was a turn coat the day we kicked him off the boat. 
Chuck frowns, troubled. 
CHUCK No.  You're wrong. 
MIKE I'm telling you, the only way to change this is to get Phil to call off his old man.  And that ain't gonna happen.  So the way I see it, it's Skipper or us. 
The guys react.  It's a no win situation. 
EXT.  MOTEL - NIGHT 
Chuck knocks quietly on the door.  Phil answers the door. 
CHUCK Can we talk? 
PHIL I guess. 
FRANCIS (O.S.) Who is it Philip? 
PHIL It's okay.  I'll be in, in a minute. (to Chuck) Look, what do you want? 
CHUCK Everybody's saying this whole tribunal is happening because of your father.  Because of you. 
PHIL Well that's just typical isn't it? 
CHUCK Is it true Phil? 
PHIL I gotta go. 
CHUCK You weren't there, you don't know what happened. 
PHIL (defensive) I know enough. 
Chuck puts a hand out to stop him. 
CHUCK Phil, please.  It won't change anything.  Tell him to call it off. 
FRANCIS (O.S.) Who are you talking to out there Philip.  Come back in here. 
Phil meets Chuck's eyes, then looks away. 
PHIL I'm sorry. 
He turns again and reaches for the door. 
CHUCK Wait. 
Chuck hands him something.  Phil looks down, disbelieving. It's the ship's bell.  Robin's bell.  Their symbol of unity, of putting loyalty above fear. 
CHUCK We figured he'd have wanted you to have it. (beat) You do what you've gotta do Phil. 
He leaves Phil standing alone on the porch, full of emotion, trying to grasp it all. 
INT.  HEARING ROOM - DAY 
A small courtroom.  The room is filled with the crew members and their families, including the parents of the victims, as well as the media.  Phil sits with his father and dodges Chuck's eyes.  Coast Guard Officers Tyler, DOWNING and SANDERS head the proceedings. 
TYLER The United States Coast Guard has been asked to conduct this maritime hearing to consider the revocation of Captain Richard Sheldrake's U.S. Master Seaman's Certificate. 
INT.  HEARING ROOM - LATER 
Bill sits at the table with his parents as questions are leveled at him.  Chief petty officers Sanders and Downing ask most of the questions as Tyler oversees the proceedings. 
Skipper stares down Sanders.  He turns to Tyler. 
SANDERS I have no more questions at this time. 
He turns to sit down, then stops. 
SANDERS Oh, one last thing... Isn't true that your father was a sea Captain? 
Skipper bristles. 
SKIPPER Yes. 
SANDERS Isn't also true that his vessel went down off of Nantucket?  Lost everyone on board.  In fair weather no less. 
Skipper's silence is suddenly filled with rage.  Tyler sees it and tries to intercept. 
TYLER What does this have to do with anything Mr. Sanders? 
SANDERS (smug) Oh, nothing.  I was just curious. 
SKIPPER My father, was more seaman, more of a man, than you might ever hope to be. 
Sanders returns to his seat, rattled.  Tyler pounds his gavel. 
TYLER We'll take a brief recess. 
EXT.  BUILDING - DAY 
The crew huddle in the parking lot.  Fractured, confused. Chuck, Tod, Charlie and Bill, stand off by themselves. 
TOD There's still a way. 
BILL What do you mean? 
TOD It's me, don't you see.  Terry's right, I'm the escape hatch.  I disobeyed order. 
CHUCK You taking the order wouldn't have changed anything. 
TOD They don't know that. (beat) We were the only one's on deck. Look, there's nothing they can do to me right?  I'm a kid. 
CHUCK But that's not the point... 
TOD That is the point... And Skipper'll slip off the hook. 
LATER 
Tod is on the stand. 
DOWNING Why didn't you turn hard to port as the wind hit? 
TOD I thought we'd have a better chance if I headed into the wind so we could spill air from our sails. 
Tyler removes his glasses. 
DOWNING But the Captain ordered you hard to starboard. 
TOD Twice. 
DOWNING Is that what you were trained to do? 
TOD No. 
DOWNING Then what do you think he was trying to do. 
TOD Let the blow drive the boat down wind.  Neutralize our canvas. 
Skipper is becoming uneasy.  He sees what is coming. 
DOWNING So when the captain gave you an order contrary to your training, you thought he was making a mistake? 
TOD No. 
TYLER Then why son, why didn't you follow his order? 
Tod meets Skipper's eyes. 
TOD Because -- I panicked. 
The room is suddenly buzzing.  Tod's Father stands up. 
TOD'S FATHER That's not true Tod. 
TERRY (to Mike) What the hell?  What is he doing. 
MIKE Son of a gun.  He just sent Skipper a life boat. 
Tyler turns to Skipper. 
TYLER If this young man had responded instantly to your command, do you believe the ship might have been spared? 
SKIPPER I don't know that anything could have prevented what happened. 
TYLER Then what are you trying to say then? 
Skipper stands. 
SKIPPER Maybe you can't see what's happening here, but it's clear to me. (to Tod) I appreciate what you're trying to do Tod.  Maybe you could live with it, but I couldn't. (to tribunal) If you think I'm going to let a sixteen year old take responsibility, then you underestimate me.  The Albatross was my ship.  The Ocean Academy was my school.  Her loss is mine and mine alone. (to others) I can't bring your sons back.  If you want my ticket, if that will ease your loss, it's the least I can do.  This... 
Skipper pulls out his wallet and takes out his license. 
SKIPPER This is easy.  Living with it, that'll be hard. 
