WILD THINGS: DIAMONDS IN THE ROUGH 
Written by 
Andy Hurst & Ross Helford 
INT. MUSEUM - DAY 
A perfect rainbow is trapped inside two flawless DIAMONDS, glinting in the morning sun. 
Tounted on crushed velvet, the identical diamonds are on a glass covered pedal stool in the middle of a vast, marble MUSEUM HALL. 
The stunning beauty of the stones is matched only by the breathtaking beauty of the young woman who's admiring them. MARIE CLIFFORD's creamy seventeen year old skin is dappled in the cornucopia of colors emanating from the diamonds... 
She reaches out tentatively towards the glass case. Not to touch the diamonds, but to run her fingers over a picture that's mounted in the case below the priceless jewels. It's of a MOTHER cradling her BABY DAUGHTER... 
MARIE Today's the day, Mom... 
CURATOR (O.S.) You here again, Marie? 
Marie spins round, sees the bespectacled CURATOR, 60's, standing behind her. 
MARIE Just leaving. 
Marie carefully adjusts the sign atop the glass case... 
'THE MOTHER DAUGHTER DIAMONDS...' 
EXT. MUSEUM - DAY 
Marie fires up her powerful BMW, parked right outside the austere Museum building. The powerful stereo blasts, sending the birds fluttering skywards... 
CREDITS appear over... 
ARIEL FOOTAGE of a narrow highway, Marie's BMW streaking through the endless tract of Florida wetlands. In the water, GATORS, warm themselves in the early morning sun... 
MOVING over the vast tracts of swampland, flocks of tropical BIRDS stretch their majestic wings, locals speed across the stagnant waters in their deafening AIRBOATS... 
Through thick trees and foliage to trailer homes and tract housing and into the town of Blue Bay, where the nip/tucked denizens sip three martini lunches and tee off at the local country club. 
Marie steers her BMW into the showroom-like parking lot of Blue Bay High School. 
INT. MARIE'S BMW - MORNING 
Marie guides her powerful car towards her parking spot, when... 
SCCCREEEECCCHHHH! 
She SLAMS on the brakes as a figure darts in front of her car. Almost gives her a heart attack, throwing her forward, flailing arms crashing into the stereo, then snapped back by her seatbelt. 
She sits stock still for a second, then looks up, out of her windshield at the young woman scouring at her, only inches from the front bumper of the BMW. 
The sudden jolt has changed the radio station. A newscaster rambles on... 
RADIO NEWSCASTER (V.O.) ... operation, aimed at finally capturing the Black Widow suspect after a six month trail of embezzlement and fraud, once again failed to snare its subject. 
ELENA SANDOVAL, 17, stands defiantly in front of the BMW, her don't-fuck-with-me stare in direct contrast with her come-fuck-me clothes. 
RADIO NEWSCASTER (V.O.) Blue Bay Police Detective Michael Morrison was able to recover over $400,000 in stolen money, but the suspect, described as Female, between eighteen and thirty, remains at large... 
Marie reaches out with a trembling hand, turns off the stereo, then leans out of the car window. 
MARIE I'm... so... sorry... 
Elena smiles wryly. 
ELENA You will be. 
And she means it... 
INT. BLUE BAY HIGH AUDITORIUM - MORNING 
The auditorium is packed with the Blue Bay High student body. The natural order is clear, the pastel flock at the front, the meat headed jocks in the center, and the rejects at the back. 
Marie is amongst her sweater monkey friends, but she's still shocked by what happened out in the parking lot... 
JENNY (handing over a present) Happy birthday, babe. They ain't diamonds, but you're just gonna have to wait for those... 
JAY ... she wanted you to have... a wonderful birthday party surrounded by all your friends. 
e glances back toward the house, watching the two men enter... 
JAY Please excuse me. 
... and hurries after them.   Marie is left dumbfounded. So close, but so far... 
MARIE Jay! What about my present? 
She chases after him... 
INT. CLIFFORD MANSION HALLWAY - DAY 
Marie makes her way down the sleek white corridors inside the opulent Clifford Mansion, past framed family photos, of Jay, Marie and the late Julie... 
MARIE Jay? H e's nowhere to be found. Frustrated, Marie finds herself alone in the kitchen. She angrily selects a bottle of Champagne, pops the cork. Before she can swig any alcohol she hears raised voices. 
JAY (O.S.) It simply can't be done... 
Marie tentatively edges out of the kitchen, back into the hallway, and down towards Jay's study... 
JAY (O.S.) (CONT'D) In all construction there's delays. 
Marie sidles up to the door jam, peaks through the crack. What she sees makes the blood run cold in her veins... 
An imposing Cuban businessman, MR. BARAJAS, stands threateningly over a visibly frightened Jay. Another man, CICATRIZ, dressed in designer silks, stands menacingly in the corner, clearly the brawn of this little operation. 
MR. BARAJAS Four months is not a delay. It's a disaster. 
JAY You have my word, Mr. Barajas, the building is almost finished. Just give me a week, two tops. 
Barajas nods to Cicatriz, who moves in on Jay with lightning quickness, holds a Razor sharp KNIFE against his thumb. 
MR. BARAJAS We are long past the negotiation stage. 
Cicatriz runs the steel blade across Jay's thumb. Marie has to cover her mouth from screaming as she sees a trickle of blood stain the spotless white carpet. 
MR. BARAJAS (CONT'D) For every day the building goes unfinished, we'll take a finger... 
A sinister grin stretches across Cicatriz's lips. 
CICATRIZ Pray, Mr. Clifford, you finish before the eleventh day... 
And with that the Cuban men head to the door. Marie scrambles away, her heart pounding... 
She's halfway down the hallway when Mr. Barajas and Cicatriz exit Jay's study. She turns, tries to look innocent as the Cuban 'businessmen' stare her down. J ay appears in the doorway, sweat cascading from his brow. 
JAY Marie! Shouldn't you be with your friends? 
A 
MARIE I was just... 
Cicatriz takes a step towards her. 
JAY (to Marie) I'll be right there. With your gift... just... wait outside, OK? 
Marie backs away, never taking her eyes off the intimidating Cuban men... 
EXT. CLIFFORD MANSION - AFTERNOON 
Marie stumbles down the lawns, past the semi-clad partygoers, in a daze, as she takes hits from the bottle of champagne. 
Jenny and the dive team wait by the dock, and welcome their lost sheep with open arms. 
JENNY So? Did you get the key? Are you Blue Bay's richest bitch? 
Marie's thoughts are drowned out by the ROAR of a powerful engine. All attention turns to a rusted MOTORCYCLE as it streaks across the verdant lawns, leaving a spray of MUD in its wake. 
nd atop the bike... Elena, in skintight leathers. 
JENNY Holy shit, who invited her? 
Marie's slightly drunken eyes narrow. Elena brings the bike to a screeching halt inches from the surprised guests. The ultimate partycrasher... 
MARIE This is a private party... 
Jay takes the bottle from her, sets it down on the concrete floor. 
JAY Enough's enough. I think it's time you left. 
This brings a teasing pout to Elena's lips. 
ELENA Is that any way to treat Marie's new best friend? 
Jay's taken aback. 
JAY You're best friends are you? 
ELENA Sure. We've been having sleepovers. Talking about boys, swapping tips. She's been teaching me about shopping, I've been teaching her about giving mind blowing head... 
Jay's taken aback once more. How much more aback can he be taken? He reaches out and blocks the video camera lens. 
JAY Gimme the camera back... 
Elena saunters slowly past, brushing up against him. Keeps the camera trained on his worried face... 
ELENA Come get it. 
Jay's reaching his elastic limit. He reaches for the camera, but Elena won't let go. They wrestle for control of the video camera. And finally the camera slips from both their grasps, flies across the room and SHATTERS on the concrete floor... 
ELENA (slyly) Ooopppps. 
Elena runs her finger under Jay's chin, then turns and walks away, leaving Jay standing there, all taken aback. 
EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING    - NIGHT 
A drunken Marie brings her BMW to a swerving halt outside the construction site. She takes a swig from the Champagne bottle on the passenger seat for dutch courage... 
MARIE (sotto) It's present time. 
She reaches for the car door handle, but comes up short. When she looks back up she's in for some taking aback of her own... 
Elena comes walking out of the building site, and the two girls lock eyes. There's an uncomfortable moment before Elena flashes a satisfied smile and walks away... 
MARIE What the hell... 
Marie's about to get out of her car when Jay comes walking out of the site, looks around the lot, sees Marie's car. 
JAY What are you doing here at this time of night? 
Marie stammers to find the words... 
MARIE I just...wanted to apologize for my behavior earlier. I was out of line. 
Jay's mood lightens. 
JAY When we admit our mistakes we grow. You've made an important step. 
MARIE So...what about my present? 
JAY Meet me at the Museum. Before school tomorrow. Now go home, get some sleep, I'm gonna finish up here... 
He walks away and a smile creeps across Marie's face. 
FADE TO BLACK: 
INT. MUSEUM - MORNING 
A perfect rainbow is trapped inside the two flawless Mother Daughter DIAMONDS, glinting in the morning sun. 
Marie can barely contain her excitement as she paces frantically in the dark marble museum hall, reaching out a trembling hand towards the glass case containing the priceless jewels... 
JAY (O.S.) You really think you're ready for your inheritance? 
Marie looks round to see Jay striding into the Museum, still in the same clothes as yesterday... 
MARIE It was...it was what Mom wanted... 
Jay looks at her sternly. 
JAY You're the only one who can open that lock, but I'm the one with the key. She wanted you to have the diamonds when you were responsible enough to know what to do with them... M MARIE I'm...responsible... 
Jay shakes his head slowly, deliberately. 
ELENA From here? 
Chad goes red. Puts the plastic cup down on the desk and Elena grabs it.            C HAD If...you wouldn't mind...removing your clothes. I'll leave the room, give you some priv... 
The breath catches in Chad's throat as Elena takes her shirt off without hesitation. Stands there in just her black bra. 
ELENA Done. Next? 
Chad's jaw drops. Not just because Elena's in her underwear, but because of the clear BITE MARKS on her neck and arms... 
CHAD Those are... 
ELENA Bite marks. He chowed down. 
CHAD They're clear evidence markers... 
He reaches out, grabs a Polaroid Camera from the desk, starts snapping away like an ornithologist at a bird convention. The FLASH of the camera fills the room... 
EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY 
FLASHBULBS explode as Marie accompanies her stepfather up the steps of the austere Blue Bay courthouse, surrounded by a gaggle of sound bite hungry pressmen... 
REPORTER 1 Any comment, Mr. Clifford? 
Jay puts his hand up to block the intrusive lenses. He disappears quickly into the shelter of the courthouse. 
REPORTER 2 (to Marie) Did your stepfather rape that girl? How could he do something like that? Marie stops in her tracks, wheels around and addresses the throng of reporters... 
MARIE Jay...is innocent... 
Says it like she means it... 
INT. COURTHOUSE - DAY 
The packed courthouse is abuzz and the elderly JUDGE WILCOX is forced to slam his gavel down... 
JUDGE WILCOX Order! 
Jay sits at the defendant's table, suit impeccable, hair immaculate, game face on. Theo sits beside him, scribbling notes. Marie is in the front row of the gallery, surrounded by her coiffured peers. She tries to smile stoically at Jay... 
Kristen sits beside Elena at the prosecution table. C had is on the stand as ARLO MEESE, 35, the slick District Attorney, steps forward. 
D.A. MEESE Dr. Borman, do your tests show that Elena Sandoval had sexual intercourse on the night of the 25th? CHAD Yes they do. D.A. MEESE Do they show that it was forced? 
CHAD 
Yes. There was extensive bruising and tearing. We found no semen evidence. The latex abrasions point to the use of protection. This is quite common in cases of premeditated rape. 
D.A. MEESE And what can you tell us about Miss Sandoval's toxicology reports, Doctor? 
CHAD Came back positive for Rohypnol, a common date rape drug. Traces were also found on the bottle of beer at the crime scene. Both Mr. Clifford and Miss Sandoval's fingerprints were all over the bottle. 
JAY I took it from her. She was far too young to be drinking! 
A slam of the gavel silences Jay. 
D.A. MEESE Dr. Borman I am going to show you what's been marked as state's exhibit number 1. He nods to the bailiff and a PROJECTOR whirs to life. An EVIDENCE PHOTO that Chad took of Elena's wounds is displayed on a screen beside him. 
D.A. MEESE What does this slide show? CHAD Miss Sandoval was found to have numerous bite marks on her upper torso that occurred during the rape. 
JUDGE WILCOX What about those other markings? 
Chad looks confused, studies the slide, sees four equidistant dots aligned in a small circle. 
CHAD I wasn't able to determine...Fingernail markings, possibly... 
JUDGE WILCOX (to Meese) Please continue. 
Marie can barely breathe... 
D.A. MEESE I'm going to show you another slide 
that's been marked as state's exhibit number 2. 
Meese nods to the bailiff, who dutifully changes the slide. The court goes dark for a second before the next slide is displayed...It's a close up of Jay's teeth mouldings compared to 
the bite marks... 
Marie surfaces, reaches out and puts the ring on the side of the pool, before looking up to see an old pair of sneakers, an electronic ankle bracelet locked around one leg. 
ELENA Nice take off. Gotta work on the landing... 
Marie's blood boils. 
MARIE What the hell are you doing here? 
Elena just reaches down and picks up Marie's unfinished ring. 
ELENA Looks like your bling ain't blinging... 
MARIE Give me that back. It was my Mother's... 
Marie climbs out of the pool, faces down with Elena... 
ELENA Looks like she got ripped off Princess, where's the rock? 
Marie snatches the ring from Elena, slides it back on her finger. 
MARIE Is that what this is all about? 
Elena reaches out, tries to stroke the wet hair off Marie's face. She recoils before she'll let Elena touch her... 
ELENA You're not a dumb as you look... J enny, followed by the rest of the diving team, come marching out of the locker room and see the two arch-enemies confronting each other. 
JENNY (to her team mates) We got trouble... 
Elena won't back down. 
MARIE You're ruining my life, and my stepfather's. 
ELENA It can end. Just like that. 
She snaps her fingers and Marie's on the verge of tears... 
Jenny and the rest of the diving team approach, stand behind Marie, a seething mass of bikini-clad mindless hate... 
MARIE Why are you doing this? 
ELENA Because I can. 
As she turns and walks away... 
ELENA (CONT'D) Good luck in court. 
INT. BLUE BAY COURTROOM - DAY 
The usual assortment of paparazzi and spectators crowd into the small courtroom. 
Marie is on the witness stand, staring straight ahead at her stepfather at the defendant's table. Gone is the immaculate suit, the perfect hair, the poker face. He's looking worried now... 
Theo paces in front of Marie, running her through a series of well- rehearsed questions. 
THEO And why did you go to your stepfather's building site that night, Miss Clifford? 
MARIE It was my birthday. Jay left the party before giving me my present. 
THEO And you say you saw Miss Sandoval leaving? 
Marie takes a moment, looks to Elena at the Prosecution table. 
MARIE I did. 
THEO And how would you describe her appearance? 
MARIE She was...she looked fine. She smiled at me. Actually smiled... 
THEO No further questions. 
He takes a seat next to Jay, whispers in his ear. D.A. Meese starts his cross-examination. 
D.A. MEESE Would it be fair to say you don't like Elena Sandoval, Miss Clifford? M MARIE We don't see...eye to eye... 
D.A. MEESE Is that why you attacked her at your party earlier that night? 
Marie squirms. 
JAY You had your chance. (to Marie) If we're gonna win at all costs, we're gonna have to change the game. (to Theo) Do you have it? 
Theo nods regretfully, reaches into a breast pocket, pulls out a KEY. 
THEO I'm still dead set against this, Jay. 
JAY I couldn't care less. 
MARIE What's the key for? 
JAY The diamonds...If that's what it takes, then that's what it takes... 
MARIE But...they're my inheritance... 
JAY All my assets are tied up in the condos, Marie. We have to pay this girl off, make her testify that she faked the tape, faked the evidence. 
MARIE But, Jay...they're my diamonds... 
JAY As soon as I'm out of here, you'll have them back. I swear. I know people, who can...persuade her to hand them over... 
Marie shoots an uncomfortable look to Theo, then back at Jay, uncertain what to say. 
MARIE I t's wrong. 
JAY More wrong than what she's doing to us? We're team Clifford, right? You know I'm not guilty. You know I could never do anything like this. So do the right thing and get me out of this hellhole... 
Marie's cracking... 
MARIE I can't... 
JAY (tenderly) No such word as 'can't.' Please... 
The tears well in her eyes. 
INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT 
The key slips easily into the lock below the dazzling Mother Daughter diamonds. The alarms disabled, Marie's finally able to reach inside the glass case and touch the priceless gems... 
The Curator stands behind her in the empty Museum hall, ruefully watching his prize exhibit being removed. 
CURATOR I knew the day would come, still doesn't make it any easier... 
Marie, tears welling in her eyes, takes a hold of the diamonds, carefully takes them from the case. 
CURATOR The offer still stands, Marie. If you ever decide to sell them, please give us a first chance... 
Marie turns to him, the emotions overwhelming her. 
MARIE I don't think I'll be able to, I'm sorry... 
She scampers towards the door, past the security guards. 
CURATOR (sotto) Me too... 
EXT. THE GATOR TRAILER PARK - NIGHT 
Theo's SUV drives carefully down the mud path running parallel to the swamp, past countless rusted airboats, and into the 'GATOR' trailer park, finally coming to a halt in front of Elena's rotting trailer. Theo gets out carefully, his $1000 shoes sinking into the mud. Marie reluctantly steps out of the car... 
A blinding PORCH LIGHT flicks on. Theo and Marie spin round, squint through the light to see Elena standing in her trailer doorway...           E LENA Well, well, well. Look what the cat dragged in... (to Theo) DA know you're here? 
Theo squirms... 
MARIE We need to talk. 
ELENA So talk. 
THEO Somewhere private, maybe? 
INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
An elderly man, UNCLE MARTY, in a sweat-stained T-shirt and ratty underwear, snores on the tattered recliner, a half-drunk bottle of WHISKY hanging from one limp hand... 
Theo freezes when he sees him... 
THEO Who's this? 
ELENA Uncle Marty. Legal Guardian. Drunken pervert, take your pick. Chill. He's out til morning. 
Theo's balls shrink instantly. 
THEO What...did you just say? 
ELENA He didn't just sexually assault me. He threatened to kill me if I told anyone... T he court is on the verge of erupting into anarchy. Theo's reeling, caught off-guard, stumbling over his words, trying to give the girl one last chance to make good on her promise. 
THEO Isn't it true that you were inebriated during the assault, that it may not in fact have been Mr. Clifford...Or anyone? 
A smirking Meese doesn't even bother to stand up. 
D.A. MEESE Objection. Leading the witness. 
JUDGE WILCOX Sustained. Council will please rephrase the question. 
Theo's stumped. His eyes plead with Elena to take the ball and run with it. She does. Unfortunately it's to the wrong end zone. 
ELENA I was messed up, alright. In fact, only two things I remember. One was that bastard Jay Clifford taping me with that Goddamn video camera while he violated me. The other was what he whispered in my ear, right before I blacked out... 
She pauses, for emphasis. Judge, jury, gallery, press corps, the town of Blue Bay, the state of Florida hangs on her every word... 
ELENA He said, "You won't remember, but you'll never forget." 
That's it. The court goes berserk, flashbulbs exploding, along with the veins in Jay's head. 
Kristen's reeling from shock... 
KRISTEN (to Morrison) What did she just say? 
Marie leaps to her feet, screams... 
MARIE Lying bitch! 
Marie has to be restrained, trying to break through the crowds to claw Elena's tear stained eyes out... 
INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT 
A small Television blares out today's top story... 
ACTION NEWS ANCHOR The young victim's wrenching testimonial proved to be the final nail in the coffin for Jay Clifford. It took less than an hour for the jury to deliberate and sentence Mr. Clifford to 15 years. T V cameras witness Jay being led away in handcuffs... 
JAY (ON TV) You can't do this to me! You can't...YOU CAN'T! 
CLICK. The TV turns off. Marie sits huddled in Jay's unfinished concrete building site office, staring at the darkened television set. Mascara laden tear tracks line her perfect face. 
MARIE (mumbling) No such thing as can't... 
She lets the champagne bottle slip through her fingers and it smashes on the concrete floor. Strangely the dregs of the champagne start running down the floor... 
Marie's heart suddenly skips a beat as she thinks she hears the rustling of plastic from outside the office. 
MARIE Who's there? 
No answer. She steels herself, gets shakily to her feet, stumbling drunkenly toward the door... 
EXT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Kristen stands in the darkened doorway of Elena's less-than- welcoming trailer. She knocks. 
KRISTEN Elena. Open up. 
No answer. She tries the door handle. It's unlocked. She takes a deep breath, steps inside. 
INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - NIGHT 
Kristen flips on a light switch. The room is illuminated for a split second before the bulb surges and burns out, leaving Kristen in the near-darkness... 
KRISTEN Elena?   Hello? 
She takes out a FLASHLIGHT, creeps through the front room, stepping over the discarded pizza boxes and assorted detritus. 
The beam of light finds a small BLUE PILL nestled in the carpeting. Kristen picks it up, slides it into her pocket... 
INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT 
Marie steps cautiously through the unfinished concrete top floor, past the crime scene tape. In the dim light, her eyes dart to every corner, every shadow. S he lets out a surprised shout as the room is suddenly plunged into darkness. Slowly the eerie forensic ULTRA VIOLET LIGHTS switch on, filling the room with black light. 
And with a knot growing in the pit of her stomach, Marie slowly turns, coming face to face with... 
KRISTEN Once a thief, always a thief... 
They suddenly freeze as the front door swings open, the blood running cold in their veins as Uncle Marty stumbles inside. They hold their breath, praying he doesn't see them, standing in Elena's doorway. Uncle Marty just mumbles something incoherent and collapses face first onto the couch, out like a light... 
INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT 
Chad reaches into an evidence bag filled with BLUE PILLS. He removes three... 
CHAD Little blue pills. One of the perks of the job. 
Laughter as   the girl's accept the roofies, swallowing them like candy. Chad   gulps down the third as Elena begins to run her hands up and down   Marie's back and shoulders. Chad's hands are all over Marie as he   helps slip off her bra. 
Elena's lips move hungrily across Chad's face, until they find his mouth. They kiss deeply. 
hen they pull apart, Chad helps Elena pull off her T-top, as Marie runs her hands up and down Elena's bare back. Elena turns back to her with a mischievous grin. 
ELENA You won't remember... 
MARIE But you'll never forget. 
Damn straight. 
EXT. COUNTY JAIL - DAY 
The early morning sun illuminates a massive slab of windowless concrete surrounded by barbed wire in the middle of nowhere... 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - MORNING 
Jay takes a seat on an uncomfortable metal chair in front of bullet-proof glass. He's half the man he used to be, broken, trembling, smoking like a chimney. His mind's still a steel trap, just one that's rusted shut. He picks up the TWO-WAY PHONE... 
THEO (into phone) Mr. Clifford, this is Kristen Richards, Elena Sandoval's probation officer. 
JAY She want to pin me for some more crimes? 
Kristen takes the phone from Theo. 
KRISTEN No, Mr. Clifford. I just have a few questions. I've noticed some inconsistencies... 
JAY You've noticed some inconsistencies? 
JAY Here's one big fucking glaring inconsistency for you: I was set up! 
KRISTEN Maybe so, but that's not good enough. Why were you set up? What would Elena Sandoval have gained from all this? 
Jay hesitates, unsure how, or if, to proceed. Theo shifts nervously. Jay gives J up. 
AY What the hell. I'm already in jail. How much worse can it get? I paid her off, okay? My assets were tied up in the condos so we used Marie's diamonds. defensive) It wasn't like I had a choice. She had me by the short an' curlies, understand? 
KRISTEN But Elena's testimony was damning. Why wouldn't she play ball? 
JAY What is this, the Spanish Inquisition? How the fuck should I know? Manipulative little skank probably figured she could bleed me for some more money down the road. But I'll tell you this much, I'm gonna get those diamonds back, make her wish she was never born. 
Kristen's mind is racing, trying to piece together the puzzle. 
EXT. SWAMP - DAY 
Elena's airboat blasts through the reeds out into the middle of nowhere. She cuts the engine, lets the boat drift, unwraps the moldings of Jay's teeth from a cloth, as well as a VIDEO TAPE marked "BLUE BAY DIVING MEET/MARIE'S BIRTHDAY", looks them over one last time... 
ELENA Later potato... 
And tosses them into the mire, where they're soon gobbled by ravenous Gators... 
EXT. GATOR TRAILER PARK - MORNING 
Elena glides her airboat to a stop on the muddy banks of the trailer park, stomps over to her trailer, when she sees... 
Two sets of tire tracks in the mud. 
INT. ELENA'S TRAILER - MORNING 
Elena stands in her bedroom, disbelief washing over her. No sign of the newspaper articles. Her walls are barren. E LENA (sotto) Oh shit... 
EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SCHOOL SWIMMING POOL - DAY 
The diving team emerges from the locker room on their way to practice. Lagging behind is Marie. She's about to catch up when she runs smack dab into a panicked Elena. 
MARIE What the...If anyone sees us together... 
KRISTEN You're 18. That's heiress payday, no? Must've crossed your mind that Jay might never let you have them... 
MARIE No, of course not. 
She's a bad liar. 
KRISTEN And then this little scam artist saunters in and just takes them. With your help, no less. 
Kristen moves in for the kill. 
KRISTEN But what I don't get is, why wouldn't Elena do what Jay asked, clear his name? After all, she'd gotten what she wanted. 
MARIE How should I know? 
Marie watches in fascination as Kristen presses the top of the ring against the back of her hand. Hard. Winces, then... 
KRISTEN I mean, the only way I can make sense of it is if somehow getting Jay released from prison would spoil the plan. 
MARIE What plan? 
She hands the ring back to Marie. Not so lucky anymore... 
KRISTEN You tell me... I INT. BLUE BAY PD HALLWAY - DAY 
Chad strolls gingerly down the hallway, opens the door to the forensics lab, freezing when he sees... 
INT. BLUE BAY PD FORENSICS - DAY 
Kristen, waiting patiently for him. 
CHAD Miss...Richards. Is...Is there something I can do for you? 
KRISTEN I was wondering if you'd do me the favor of running a quick test. 
CHAD Uh, sure, I guess. Whatcha got for me? 
She hands him the Blue Pill she found in Elena's trailer. 
KRISTEN Could you tell me what this is? 
Chad tries to keep his cool. 
CHAD No problemo. It'll only take a minute. 
While Chad goes about his work, Kristen begins nosing around the office. Chad looks over his shoulder. 
CHAD Be careful, I got lots of evidence here. 
She starts flipping through EVIDENCE PHOTOS... 
KRISTEN Are these the evidence photos from the Elena Sandoval rape? 
CHAD They are, but... 
KRISTEN Ever find out what caused these markings? 
She holds up the photograph of the four circular indentations the Judge questioned Chad about in court... 
CHAD Like I told the Judge, I guess they're finger nail markings... 
KRISTEN They don't look like finger nail markings to me. They look more like this... 
She holds up the back of her hand, where she'd made the indentation with Marie's ring. 
KRISTEN Would you say these markings are the same? 
CHAD W-where did you get that? 
Kristen smiles. 
KRISTEN Marie gave it to me. But you already knew that, didn't you, Doc? 
Chad has no answer to that. He can only blink stupidly and pray his silence doesn't incriminate him further. Kristen heads for the door... 
CHAD (calling after) The pill. It's Rohypnol. Uh, Roofies. 
KRISTEN Been there. Done that. 
MARIE No, I mean he really fucked us. He drugged me an' took the diamonds! 
EXT. SWAMPS - MORNING 
Elena stands on the edge of the airboat, fear rising in her. 
ELENA ell me you're kidding... 
MARIE (V.O.) Yeah, it's all a big joke...He stole the diamonds! 
Elena lets out an anguished wail. 
MARIE (V.O.) Keep it down, my headache's bad enough as it is. 
ELENA We've gotta stop him. 
INT. CLIFFORD MANSION - KITCHEN - MORNING 
Marie's fevered mind is racing as she glances at the wall clock. 7:30. Finally a desperate plan scratches its way to the surface. 
MARIE He's heading to the museum, got himself an 8am meeting... 
ELENA (V.O.) He's gonna sell the diamonds... 
MARIE Not if we find him first... 
EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY 
The deafening roar of an air boat cutting through dense sawgrass, speeding across the endless swampland expanse. Elena expertly maneuvers the machine, the wind racing through her hair... 
EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY 
Chad's speakers blare out heavy metal as his rusty DAEWOO bangs down the desolate swamp dirt road through the thick trees. Every hundred feet or so, the road runs parallel with the water, then cuts back into the trees. C had spots an Air Boat not more than a few hundred yards from him. He does a double take just as the road disappears back into the trees. That wasn't...it couldn't be, could it? 
The winding dirt road crosses back to swampside and Chad's worst fears come true...Elena's racing along side of him in the AIRBOAT, fighting to keep up... 
ELENA Pull over! 
INT. CHAD'S CAR - DAY 
The road runs parallel to the swamp again and Chad's eyes nearly burst from their sockets as he sees the airboat now alongside him, matching his speed. 
ELENA Give us back the diamonds! 
Chad's heart stops. 
CHAD Us? 
He spins round, looks straight ahead at the BMW RACING RIGHT AT HIM! 
CHAD FUCKING HELL! 
He yanks the steering wheel hard left, swerves his car clean off the dirt road and into the thick swathe of Melaluca trees, Marie's BMW shoots past, missing his car by inches... 
INT. MARIE'S BMW - CONTINUOUS 
Marie slams on her brakes, brings her BMW to a skidding halt on the dirt road. She looks back over her shoulder, at the swaying Melaluca trees. No sign of Chad's car... 
EXT. SWAMPSIDE - CONTINUOUS 
Elena brings the airboat to rest at swamp side, leaps into the reeds and clambers up to the dirt road. There's no sign of Chad's car, just a hole in the dense undergrowth where it ploughed through... 
Marie comes running up to join Elena, a tire iron in hand... 
ELENA (sternly) We're not hurting him, Marie, got it? We just get the diamonds back... 
MARIE I 'm not gonna hurt him. No way... 
Marie stalks down the path Chad's car took off the dirt road... 
MARIE I'm gonna kill him. 
Elena's breath catches in her throat. Marie disappears into the trees and she's alone, out on the deserted swamp road... 
ELENA Marie! Don't do this... 
She hears a scream, a girl's scream... 
ELENA This can't be happening... 
Marie slows, looks back to Elena. 
MARIE What now? 
ELENA I'm more than five miles away from the Police station. I go beyond five miles and the alarm goes off... 
Marie snarls... 
MARIE You telling me your Parole Officer knows you're out here? 
Elena can barely speak... 
ELENA She knows... 
EXT. SWAMP - DAY 
Chad's face is drained of color as he runs through the dense swampland, hugging the priceless diamonds. Sweat cascades from his brow, and thick plumes of blood from wounds all over his body swirl in the stagnant waters... 
Most gruesome of all is a broken TURN SIGNAL embedded in his right leg. As the water gets knee-deep, the last of Chad's reserve energy goes. He collapses in the stagnant marsh. 
Not far off, GATORS circle. It's only a matter of time before they notice the blood in the water. 
EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY 
The small bit of solid ground gives way to swampland. Elena steps into the water, her Ankle Bracelet FLASHING RED. 
ELENA Call it off, Marie. We gotta go or she'll find us here... 
A splashing sound from up ahead silences both girls... 
MARIE You hear that? 
The sound echoes off the dense trees. Marie points left. 
MARIE You go that way... 
Marie heads off in the opposite direction. Elena hesitates, wants to follow, but does as she's told, and goes left, soon enveloped by canopy of trees... 
INT. KRISTEN'S CAR - DAY 
Kristen blasts down the Blue Bay streets, a siren in the windshield blaring... 
The handheld GPS continues to monitor Elena's exact position in the midst of the swamp... E EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY 
Elena stumbles through the thick, stagnant water, scouring the horizon for any sign of Chad... 
ELENA (sotto) Please... 
A rustling sound stops her in her tracks. Dead silence, until... 
A HAND GRABS HER LEG, AROUND THE FLASHING ANKLE BRACELET, DRAGS HER DOWN INTO THE SWAMP... 
EXT. EVERGLADES CLEARING - DAY 
Marie hacks her way through the overgrown foliage with the tire iron, like a Prada clad big-game hunter... 
MARIE (calling out to Elena) You see him? 
No reply, just her own voice echoing back... 
MARIE Elena? 
She rolls her eyes. 
MARIE Useless bitch... 
EXT. SWAMP ROAD - DAY 
Kristen's unmarked car races across the desolate swamp road. 
INT. KRISTEN'S CAR - DAY 
She checks the flashing GPS signal. Getting closer... 
EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY 
The Curator paces back and forth, like an expectant father, in front of the empty glass case that used to house the diamonds. Marie bursts into the Museum, and he strides up to meet her, shocked when he sees Marie's covered in blood, sweat and guilt... 
CURATOR Marie? Are you alright? 
MARIE Never better. Got the money? 
The Curator nods nervously. 
CURATOR I convinced the board of the extraordinary circumstances surrounding... 
MARIE Good. S he fishes in her bag for the diamonds... 
CURATOR I...I received a call from your 'associate'. He said he would be handling the transaction. 
MARIE Change of plans. My 'associate' got tied up at work. Completely swamped... 
The Curator nods, unsure if he inquire further... 
Marie finally pulls out two blood soaked Diamonds from her bag, thrusts them at the Curator. He screws up his wrinkled face, afraid to touch them... 
MARIE Calm down. It's just blood. 
EXT. CHAD'S CAR - AFTERNOON 
With trembling hands, Elena opens the trunk of Chad's crashed car. She pulls out a plastic gas container, sloshing the fuel around inside, then trailing it back across the vine covered ground... 
She carefully places the empty container down, standing twenty feet back from the wreckage, fumbling in her pocket for a match... 
She can barely control her hands, her whole body shaking in fear... 
Finally she pulls out a MATCHBOOK, still sopping wet from the swamp. She strikes match after match, but they won't light, until, finally, one produces a tiny flame that simmers for a second then smoulders out... 
ELENA Don't do this to me, please... 
In frustration, she runs back to Chad's car, looking desperately for a lighter, climbing all the way in. Because of the slight slope it's on, the car's flimsy door slams shut behind her. 
Elena pays no heed, continues to rummage through the glove compartment. 
ELENA You gotta have a lighter or some... 
She's cut off as the WRECKED CAR'S HORN BLARES OUT! 
Deafening, the sound echoes around the dense undergrowth. Elena's heart skips a beat. Chad's corpse has slumped forward against the steering wheel. 
ELENA Jesus... 
She struggles with all her might to pull Chad's body back off the horn... S ilence reigns once more. Elena takes short, sharp breaths. Looks over at Chad's body slumped to the side, leaning against the driver's side door... 
ELENA I'm sorry. I'm so sorry... 
Not as sorry as she's going to be... 
The match she discarded outside only seconds ago continues to smoulder for a second, then REIGNITES! 
INT. MUSEUM - AFTERNOON 
The Curator carefully examines the diamond, turning it over and over in his hands. Marie stands over him, impatiently tapping her muddy shoe on the marble floor... 
MARIE So? 
CURATOR I...I'm not sure... 
MARIE Can you get the cash or not? 
The Curator looks up to her, bemused. 
CURATOR I can get the cash...it's just... 
Marie smiles a wicked grin. 
MARIE Then let's have those dead presidents... 
EXT. CHAD'S CAR - AFTERNOON 
The discarded match has set fire to the surrounding vines on the ground, and slowly the fire edges it way towards the line of gasoline that Elena trailed from Chad's wrecked car... 
INSIDE THE CAR 
Elena adjusts the mic taped to her chest, wincing as the tape pulls her delicate skin. 
ELENA I..don't think I can do this... 
MARIE (O.S.) It's already done. 
Elena looks up guiltily. Marie is standing by the side of the pool. How much did she see? 
MARIE So? 
The word's stick in Elena's throat... 
ELENA I had no choice... 
MARIE Blah, blah, blah. Get over it. He's dead. Now you told me you had a plan. Spit it out. 
ELENA Jay's got cash. At the building site. I saw it. 
Marie rolls her eyes. 
MARIE That's your brilliant plan? It's in a safe, dumb ass. You a safecracker? Have you got magic fingers, gonna pick that lock? I don't think so. Next. 
INT. MORRISON'S CAR - CONTINUOUS 
Kristen winces as she listens to the girls' conversation. E LENA (V.O.) (through the speakers) We're gonna go to Jay. Tell him what we did. 
MARIE (V.O.) Like hell we are. 
EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS 
Elena walks down the bleachers, approaching a skeptical Marie. 
ELENA Listen to me. We go to the jail, tell him we'll come clean, tell the police everything, if he gives us the combination. I'm still a minor, they'll send me back to Juvie. Shit, I could do that time standing on my head... 
Marie's wavering. 
MARIE How much money? 
Elena reaches Marie, puts her hands on her hips. 
ELENA Enough for you and me. 
Grinds against her. Slowly, sensually. 
MARIE We don't have to tell the cops anything. We'll let Jay's videotape do the talking. 
ELENA But, we got rid of the real one... 
MARIE I kept a copy. Never trusted you backstabbers. 
Elena tries to pull away, but Marie drags her back until their faces are inches apart. 
MARIE You're trembling. 
There's no denying it. Marie slowly draws her hand down Elena's face, down her neck, to her chest. So close to the wire. Finally places her palm over Elena's heart... 
ELENA Marie, I... 
MARIE Ssshhhh... 
BOOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM... 
INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT 
Morrison and Kristen listen intently in their headphones, unable to breath... 
EXT. BLUE BAY HIGH SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS 
Elena and Marie stand there for what seems like an eternity, unblinking... B OOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM, BOOM BOOM... 
Finally Marie smiles... 
MARIE Alright. Let's do it... 
INT. COUNTY JAIL - NIGHT 
Jay laughs, as he sits across from Marie and Elena, separated by an inch of bullet proof glass. Theo stands by the door. 
ELENA We'll never get away with this. You know that don't you? 
Marie steps on the gas. She ain't saying a word, and time's running out for Elena... 
INT. MORRISON'S POLICE CAR - NIGHT 
Morrison struggles to keep up with Marie's Bullit-esque driving. Kristen stays focused on the one-sided conversation in her headphones... 
KRISTEN Come on, Elena...Keep pushing... 
EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - NIGHT 
Marie's BMW screeches to a stop outside the beachfront condos, and Marie strides towards the construction site entrance. 
Elena gets out the car, feeling decidedly sick. She circuitously adjusts the microphone taped to her chest, then follows Marie into the dark, unfinished building 
INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Marie enters the makeshift office like a wolf stalking her prey, heading straight for the safe. With a rock steady hand, she works the lock...CLICK... 
MARIE One down... 
EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - NIGHT 
Morrison brings his clunky Police sedan to a halt around the back of the building site. I INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT 
Kristen listens intently to the live feed. 
ELENA (V.O.) (over headphones) Marie! Please, I can't do this... 
INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Marie's working the safe combination like a master thief, spinning it nimbly between her buffed nails. CLICK... 
MARIE Two down. 
Elena stands in the makeshift office doorway, trying to coax something incriminating from Marie's perfect lips. 
ELENA I told you not to kill Chad. I'll tell it to the police. 
Marie doesn't even look round, concentrating on the job at hand. Elena's reeling. 
ELENA I'll tell 'em you made me lie about your stepfather raping me, made me perjure myself on the stand, went and killed Chad, and now... 
MARIE (sotto) 99. A very good year... 
CLICK. Third and final tumbler falls. The safe door swings open, revealing a STACK of CASH and Jay's HANDGUN... 
INT. MORRISON'S CAR - NIGHT 
Kristen shakes her head. It's hopeless, Elena can't get Marie to say an incriminating word... 
MORRISON This has gotta end. 
KRISTEN It's gonna end. One way or another... 
INT. JAY'S OFFICE - NIGHT 
Marie pulls out a wad of crisp, clean bills, draws them across her nose like a wine connoisseur. 
MARIE Money. Always in style. 
She dances over to Elena, waves the cash in her face. 
ELENA Why'd you do it? Why'd Chad have to die? 
Marie slides up against Elena, fluttering the cash over her in the world's most expensive shower. Elena couldn't be less interested, focused on getting that confession... 
ELENA You killed him, Marie. You murdered him in cold blood... 
Marie presses up against Elena, pushing her up against the unfinished dry wall. Kisses her passionately, finally silencing her for a few, brief, electric seconds. And when she pulls away her fingers dance down Elena's shirt until... S he rips the microphone from Elena's chest. Stands there with the dangling cord in her hands, her face caught in a permanent snarl. The blood drains from Elena's face... 
INT. MORRISON'S POLICE CAR - NIGHT 
A piercing feedback forces Kristen to throw aside the headphones. She looks to Morrison. 
KRISTEN She's been made... 
KRISTEN (O.S.) Just got off the phone with the Parole board... 
Morrison turns around, sees Kristen approaching, still visibly shaken. 
K 
KRISTEN They want me to bring Elena back to Miami in the morning. 
She hesitates... 
KRISTEN I'm... sorry for this whole mess. 
Morrison considers this, picks his words carefully. 
MORRISON Don't be. It was my gun that fired the shots, so it must've been me who pulled the trigger. I'll take the credit on this one. After all the Black widow crap I had to put up with, I've earnt it... 
Kristen nods. 
KRISTEN You did the right thing... 
MORRISON We did the right thing. 
risten smiles, almost, moves in, and wraps her arms around the Detective. He closes his eyes, savors the moment. As she pulls away, she hands him a card. K RISTEN You call me, promise? 
Morrison beams. 
MORRISON I will. I will. 
KRISTEN Now that this is all over, maybe we can have that drink soon... 
She leans in, kisses him sweetly on the lips. Morrison watches her walk away. In spite of all the shit that's gone down, he's probably the happiest son of a bitch in all of Blue Bay. 
FADE TO BLACK. 
EXT. COUNTY JAIL - MORNING 
Morrison's unmarked Sedan idles outside the barbed wire fences of the County Jail. The gate slowly opens and guards lead a dazed Jay Clifford outside, wincing from the bright sunlight. 
Morrison gets out of the car, meets Jay. 
MORRISON How you holdin' up, Jay? 
JAY Been better. 
He sure has. 
MORRISON So what's next? 
JAY No idea. Everything's gone. Repossessed. Guess there's nowhere to go but up. 
It's all he can do to keep from breaking down. 
MORRISON I can't help but feel partially responsible. If there's anything I... 
Jay shakes his head. 
JAY I don't think so, but thanks. 
MORRISON Can I at least give you a ride somewhere? 
JAY Ain't got nowhere to go... 
Morrison watches sadly as Jay stumbles past him, walking to nowhere in particular. 
MORRISON (hopeful) ... but up, right? 
No reply. 
The Detective heads back to his car, stops for a second, reaches into his pocket and pulls out Kristen's already-dog eared card. He can't resist. Dials the number After four rings there's no message. Just a BEEP. 
MORRISON (into phone) Uh, Kristen, it's Michael again. Haven't heard from you. Hope you're doing okay. Everything's fine here. 
MORRISON(CONT'D) Haven't been any questions asked that I can't answer, an' no one's brought your name up. So give me a call back and maybe we can go for that drink... H e's cut off by... 
RECORDED VOICE BEEP. The mail box you are trying to reach is full. Your message has been deleted. 
Morrison's disconnected. Puzzled, he gets into his car. 
At her side is a PAPER SHREDDER, and between sips from a piña colada, she feeds document after document, each one stamped BLACK WIDOW EVIDENCE in red ink... 
Kristen looks over at Elena, equally stunning in a matching bikini. 
KRISTEN I can't believe Morrison just handed me the key to the evidence locker... 
A broad grin stretches across her lips as Elena empties the contents of a velvet pouch onto a table. T he Mother-Daughter diamonds are radiant in the bright sunlight. 
KRISTEN These are...genuine? 
Elena nods. 
ELENA Nothin' like the real thing. Switched 'em for the fakes right after Marie tried to pay me off... 
KRISTEN They're...So beautiful. 
Elena picks up the bigger diamond, hands it to Kristen. 
ELENA The mother. 
Kristen picks up the smaller diamond, hands it to Elena. 
KRISTEN The daughter. 
INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - DAY 
Morrison paces the infamous crime scene, at wit's end. Dammers stands off to the side, just watching him with a bemused look etched across his face. 
MORRISON She was the Black Widow. Her and that little... 
He tries to think of an appropriate slur for Elena. Can't come up with anything, continues pacing frantically. 
MORRISON Played me like a fool. 
Dammers shrugs. 
DAMMERS Hind sight's 20-20. No need to be so hard on yourself, Morrison... (beat, smile) That's my job. 
MORRISON You smug son of a bitch. It's not like you knew who she was anymore than I did. 
Dammers nods slowly. 
DAMMERS That's the God's honest truth. But at least I didn't give her my evidence locker keycard. 
DAMMERS(CONT'D) And I didn't lie about who fired the shots that killed the Clifford kid. 
Morrison's heart sinks. He looks like he's going to faint. Steadies himself, placing both hands against the wall, just as Jay did that fateful night seemingly a lifetime ago... 
EXT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDINGS - DAY 
Dammers leads Morrison to his awaiting car. They pass MR. Barajas and Cicatriz. Mr. Barajas is in his usual foul mood... 
MR. BARAJAS Un pinche sink hole! No lo puedo creer! 
Morrison stops, regards Barajas... 
MORRISON What did you say? 
CICATRIZ The foundation is sinking. The entire site is a sink hole. It's completely worthless. 
MR. BARAJAS I'm going to kill Jay Clifford... 
MORRISON You and me both... 
EXT. PARADISE - DAY 
Elena and Kristen lay side-by-side on loungers, soaking in the sun, when a voice rouses them... 
JAY (O.S.) Poor Detective Morrison. It's hard to do that to a friend. Especially one going through such a nasty divorce. 
They look up to see Jay, standing before them in a pair of colorful shorts, no shirt, sipping at a martini... 
JAY Told me he'd never trust another woman as long as he lived. And then along came a spider... 
KRISTEN A black widow. 
Jay glances at Elena, as he downs the last drops from his drink. 
KRISTEN Let's go get our money. 
They gather the diamonds, walk away as the pool turns crimson red... 
THE END 
As the credits roll.... 
INT. OFFICE - MORNING 
An anonymous, luxurious office. A fat, balding, semi-conscious MAN lies curled up on the floor as Elena, half undressed and wearing a black wig, shovels cash into her oversized purse... 
There's a crackle on her WALKIE-TALKIE... 
KRISTEN (V.O.) We got problems... 
From outside, she can hear the wailing of SIRENS. Getting closer. 
ELENA Almost done here. 
KRISTEN (V.O.) Leave it. Come on! 
Elena gets hesitantly to her feet, slides a stack of $100s in her pocket for good measure. 
KRISTEN (V.O.) He gonna be able to make an ID? 
Elena glances at the Man on the floor, his puffy eyes glazed over like a jelly donut. 
ELENA Not on your life. I gave him enough roofies to make an elephant forget. 
EXT. OFFICE - MORNING 
Elena gets into a waiting car outside the bank. The getaway driver...Kristen, of course... 
ELENA I can't believe we just gave up all that cash. 
KRISTEN Forget it. The Black Widow's finally got an angle on our real prey. 
ELENA We goin' to Blue Bay? 
KRISTEN He won't know what hit him. 
A smile crosses Elena's perfect lips... 
ELENA 'bout time... 
And the car pulls away from the curb just seconds before a fleet of police cars screeches to a halt in front of the bank. 
INT. TEAM CLIFFORD BUILDING - JAY'S OFFICE - DAY 
Jay carefully places the stacks of cash into the wall safe in his unfinished office. 
KRISTEN (O.S.) That's an awful lot of money... 
Jay spins round, flabbergasted that someone's watching him. 
JAY Who the hell... 
KRISTEN Not enough though. Gonna need those Diamonds if you're gonna ride out this disaster... 
JAY What? What the hell do you mean? 
Kristen calmly reaches into her purse, pulls out a handful of marbles. Throws them onto the ground, letting them roll towards B Jay... 
ut they stop, change direction, all coming rolling back in a small circle, until they come to rest in the middle of the concrete floor... 
KRISTEN The building's built on a sink hole, Jay. You know it, and I know it. Gonna need to think fast if you wanna keep the Cubans off your back... 
Jay's tiny mind can't take it all in. 
JAY How'd you...how'd you know all this... 
KRISTEN It's what we do. 
JAY We? 
Elena walks seductively into the unfinished office. It's on. 
