"Wild Things", production draft, revised by Kem Nunn 
WILD THINGS 
by 
Stephen Peters 
rewrite by 
Kem Nunn 
MANDALAY ENTERTAINMENT                           January 21, 1997 1202 West Washington Blvd. Culver City, CA 90232 
FADE IN: 
MAIN TITLE SEQUENCE -- BLACK 
INTERCUT -- QUICK FLASH-FORWARDS 
INSIDE A STEAMY SHOWER -- A wet naked woman and man wrapped around each other in ecstasy -- legs, arms, hair, mouths. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
Moonlight reflects on a vehicle's shiny surface.  FISTS THUD into flesh.  O.S. -- a man slams of the hood, rebounds away. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
LOVERS -- caught in FREEZE-FRAMES of green neon -- off, on, off, on -- like a strobe's instant-images -- of gasping, tough sex. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
ON A GLEAMING POOL DECK of black-and-white tile -- two women in soaked, clinging clothes -- fight -- hands squeeze a throat. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
A SCREAM -- a sickening hollow THWACK -- an arc of blood, two teeth fall on dark stone. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
GUNSHOTS -- Blood sprays across the glass of a picture frame -- obscures the photo inside. 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
THE SURFACE OF A SPARKLING SEA -- a distant emerald island.  A 40-foot sloop APPEARS -- shapes on deck -- we are about to SEE -- 
BLACK -- MORE TITLES -- then 
SHARKS -- underwater -- rip something into a bloody cloud. 
END MAIN TITLES. 
FADE TO: 
EXT. BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY 
A place of money and privilege.  White coral buildings surround an open yard.  Tile roofs rise among banyan trees and banana palms, shimmering before a blue blaze of sky. 
Beyond the yard is the school's playing field and beyond that the waters of Biscayne Bay, dappled in sunlight where the sloops of the school's sailing class bob at their moorings. 
For a moment all is quiet.  Then, faintly, the HUM of many VOICES, rising and falling, LAUGHTER. 
The CAMERA PANS to the open windows of a building somewhat larger than the others.  The SOUNDS grow louder. 
INT. BLUE BAY AUDITORIUM - DAY 
A hundred high school kids sit before a raised, hardwood stage. The students are not unlike the campus, radiant, well-tended -- a veritable sea of adolescent sexuality -- bronze boys who seem to have just come from the boats or tennis courts -- girls in tight shorts riding high up shapely thighs, as... 
SAM LOMBARDO strolls out onto the stage.  The man is thirtyish, drop-dead handsome.  Dressed not that differently from the kids, in an Izod polo shirt, khakis and boat shoes. 
His entrance has an effect upon the audience, particularly upon the girls. 
KAREN and JANELLE, 16, pretty blondes, whisper then giggle. 
NICOLE, a dark-eyed beauty, 17 but going on 25, watches Sam's walk, then turns to the girl at her side... 
KELLY VAN RYAN, 17, a fully-developed knockout. 
NICOLE When we graduate the only thing I'm going to miss is... (with a nod to the stage) Know what I mean? 
Kelly's eyes are locked on Sam.  Nicole has to nudge her. 
NICOLE (CONT'D) Kelly? 
KELLY (still staring) Oh yeah. 
Sam is at the podium.  He looks out across the audience.  There are a couple of flirtatious whistles, laughter.  Sam smiles, silencing them with a wave of his hand. 
SAM We've come to the halfway point in my senior seminars... 
Cheers, applause.  Sam waits for the kids to settle. 
EXT. SUBURBAN CUL-DE-SAC - DAY 
Neat little stucco houses -- some not so neat -- simmer in tropical heat. 
A BMW Z-3 Roadster stops at the head of the cul-de-sac.  Nicole is driving.  Kelly sits beside her. 
NICOLE This is it? 
Kelly looks at a pad of paper, nods. 
KELLY Four-thirty-seven. 
They pass a couple of teenagers playing basketball in a driveway, a guy mowing his yard. 
NICOLE Nice. 
KELLY What do you want, he's a teacher for Christ's sake. (beat) It's here.  Pull over. 
Nicole does, before one of the not-so-neat houses.  Sam's muddy Jeep Wrangler is parked in the drive.  Behind that is a red Mercedes convertible. 
INT. SAM'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - SAME 
Sam and BARBARA, 28, a lean, beautiful country-clubber roll on the bed.  Barbara is dressed for tennis.  Sam wears a baggy pair of khaki shorts.  Barbara struggles to escape.  Sam grabs a leg, kisses the back of her knee. 
He pushes up the little white skirt, kissing her between her thighs. 
BARBARA (getting just a little breathless) Sam, come on... I'm gonna be late for my game... 
Sam keeps at it.  She's starting to weaken. 
BARBARA (CONT'D) Not that I'm going to be much good after last night... 
SAM Eat a power bar. 
Barbara starts to giggle.  He's just about got her when... 
The DOORBELL RINGS.  Sam lets go.  Barbara sighs. 
INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME 
Sam goes to the front door, opens it, to find... 
Kelly and Nicole, holding plastic pails full of rags.  The girls are dressed in Blue Bay High T-shirts, cropped to REVEAL flat tummies, shorts and running shoes. 
GIRLS Hi, Mr. Lombardo. 
Sam looks over the girls -- a small, exasperated smile. 
KELLY Look, he forgot.  I knew it. 
SAM No I didn't.  Check out the Jeep.  It's nice and dirty for you. (beat) But you might want to wait a minute. The Mercedes is leaving. 
NICOLE You mean that isn't yours too? 
The girls giggle.  Sam smiles. 
KELLY Where's the hose?  We can set up. 
SAM In back of the garage. 
As they walk away, he is joined by Barbara.  She watches the girls with an appraising eye. 
BARBARA Is that Sandra Van Ryan's kid? 
SAM Kelly. 
BARBARA She's going to wash your Jeep? 
SAM Senior class fund-raising gig.  I told 'em they could hose down the Jeep. (off Barbara's look) Hey, come on.  It's for a good cause. 
Barbara laughs at him. 
BARBARA Sam the philanthropist. (a beat) Tomorrow, right? 
Sam nods.  Another kiss. 
EXT. SAM'S DRIVEWAY - SAME 
As Barbara goes to her car she sees the girls coming from behind the garage.  She looks at Sam, standing in his doorway, watching the girls.  When he sees Barbara looking at him, he shrugs, then waves. 
EXT. FRONT DOOR - SAM'S HOUSE - LATER 
Kelly and Nicole, looking very much like the finalists in a wet T-shirt derby, ring the bell. 
Sam answers.  He looks them over.  A couple of houses down he can see the guy with the mower, dumping grass into a can, watching the girls, then turning to walk back to his house. 
SAM So, where you off to now? 
KELLY Aren't  you forgetting something? (off Sam's look) Your coupon.  We gotta have it. 
SAM Jeez, that thing... Can't you... 
EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE - NIGHT 
Kelly Van Ryan sits on the dock, looking back toward the huge stone house, where... 
A YELLOW LIGHT burns in one of the upstairs windows. 
Kelly has a shotgun laid across her knees.  Slowly, she raises the gun, pointing at the yellow window. 
She holds it there for some time, then, softly, to herself... 
KELLY Bang... 
INT. MASTER BEDROOM - VAN RYAN ESTATE - NEXT DAY 
Sunlight streams through open windows, mingling with loud sighs of pleasure... Sandra Van Ryan on top of FRANKIE CONDO, a big, buffed-out Cuban.  They're making love on the bed.  She throws her head back -- an explosion of hair -- gasps -- an orgasm is near, as... 
A cordless PHONE RINGS on the night table.  They try to ignore it.  No dice.  Sandra groans, finally pulling away. 
SANDRA Goddamnit! (she answers) Hello. 
COMPUTER VOICE (V.O.) Hello, this is the attendance office at Blue Bay School.  Your son or daughter is absent today, Monday... 
SANDRA Jesus H. Christ! 
She hangs up hard.  Sits on the edge of the bed. 
FRANKIE What? 
Sandra waves him off.  She pulls on a T-shirt, then grabs up the phone once more, punching in a number. 
INT. SAM'S OFFICE - BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY 
Desk, files, a terrarium full of swamp lizards, above which a photo of the Windward Passage decorates the wall.  There's a Waterford bowl on the desk -- etched with "Sam Lombardo -- Blue Bay Educator of the Year." 
Sam is working on the computer.  The PHONE RINGS.  He answers. 
SAM Counseling. 
XNTERCUT - SANDRA/SAM PHONE CONVERSATION 
Sandra seated on the bed, one long leg tucked beneath her. 
SANDRA Sam, Sandy Van Ryan. 
Frankie's eyes go cold when he hears the word "Sam." 
In his office, Sam pushes himself away from the computer, stiffening noticeably. 
SAM Sandy... What's up? 
SANDRA Listen, Kelly skipped school.  Have you talked to her? 
SAM No. 
SANDRA Shit. Here we go again. 
SAM Didn't you see her this morning? 
SANDRA To tell you the truth, I haven't seen her since Friday. 
BOOM -- A SHOTGUN BLASTS outside Sandra's window.  She jumps. BOOM, BOOM -- more BLASTS.  She jumps up to look outside. 
SANDRA'S POV - KELLY 
stands at the edge of the bay, launching skeet then blasting them high above the water. 
BACK TO SCENE 
SANDRA (CONT'D) Never mind.  I found her. (a long beat) Listen, Sam.  It was good seeing you the other day. (beat) I haven't found anyone else can handle the Jonathan like you can. 
She glances at Frankie -- who has heard enough.  He gives her a long hard look, then rolls from the bed to walk from the room. 
Sam remains silent, watching the lizards with their blank, unblinking eyes. 
SANDRA (CONT'D) Look.  I know you're seeing Barbara Baxter.  So what? 
SAM So maybe I'm a one-woman man. 
Sandra laughs. 
SANDRA Right. (beat) You really think you're gonna get one of these Blue Bay women to marry you? 
Sandra pauses to laugh once more. 
SANDRA (CONT'D) Grab a clue, Sam.  You're a hired hand around here.  Enjoy it while it lasts. 
SAM Goodbye, Sandra. 
Sam puts down the phone, looks at it -- a long moment as -- the barest hint of a smile plays upon his face. 
Sandra slams down her phone.  She looks to the bay, to the sleek racing sloop floating beyond the private dock. 
SANDRA (V.O.) My daughter does not get raped in Blue Bay! 
INT. STATION HOUSE - INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 
Sandra slams a fist on the conference table. 
Kelly is seated between her mother and her mother's attorney, TOM BAXTER.  Baxter sports an Italian suit and a lethal Alexander Haig look. 
Seated across from these three are Ray, Gloria and BRYCE HUNTER, the local D.A. 
Silence follows Sandra's outburst.  Baxter reaches to squeeze Sandra's shoulder.  Kelly puts her face in her hands. 
RAY (in a quiet voice) You're saying that Kelly was raped by Sam Lombardo. 
SANDRA That's right. 
Ray and Gloria exchange looks.  Gloria in particular looks slightly stunned. 
GLORIA The guidance counselor at Blue Bay? 
SANDRA (sarcastically) The guidance counselor at Blue Bay. 
GLORIA We understand your feelings, Ms. Van Ryan.  But please, we'd like some time with Kelly.  We'd like to take her statement alone. 
Baxter nods, yes.  Sandra looks at Kelly. 
SANDRA Are you okay for this? 
Kelly nods. 
SANDRA (CONT'D) The man must be insane to think he can do this to me... 
Tom Baxter takes her by the arm as Ray CROSSES the room to open the door.  Bryce Hunter walks out with then. 
Gloria takes a seat closer to Kelly.  When she speaks, she is very calm and quiet. 
GLORIA How are you, Kelly? Would you like to take a break for a minute? 
KELLY (shaking her head) I just want to get it over with.  My mom's making me do this. I just want to forget it. 
GLORIA I know you do. 
She waits as Ray sets up a camera on a tripod. 
GLORIA (CCNT'D) We'd like to videotape the statement if that's all right with you. 
Kelly shrugs. 
GLORIA (CONT'D) I know this is not pleasant, Kelly.  But these are serious charges and we need to know everything that happened between you and Mr. Lombardo. (beat) Are you ready? 
Kelly nods. 
CLOSE ON VIDEO MONITOR - KELLY'S STATEMENT 
KELLY He started rubbing my shoulders.  Said must be sore after washing cars.  I... let him  I mean he's a nice guy. (beat) I don't know... It was so fast.  I closed my eyes.  I remember his hands moved to my breasts.  I mean just for a second it was nice... I forgot whore I was.  I mean he's so gorgeous... 
PULL BACK to REVEAL... 
INT. STATION HOUSE - DAY 
Ray, Gloria and Bryce Hunter stand at one end of the long conference table, watching the playback of Kelly's tape. 
BACK TO VIDEOTAPE 
KELLY The next thing... his hand was in my shorts... you know, from behind.  His fingers... his fingers... 
GLORIA (O.S.) Take your time. 
KELLY They were in me.  Both places... you know. 
GLORIA (O.S.) I understand. 
KELLY He said something like, "Do you want it dirty7" or something. (beat) I tried to turn away, but he pushed me to the floor. 
GLORIA (O.S.) Was there penetration?  Did he put himself inside you? 
KELLY Yes.  I said stop.  I screamed.  I mean that's how it sounded in my head.  He hurt me... 
GLORIA (O.S.) (as Kelly breaks into tears) That's okay, Kelly.  You're doing fine. (beat) But I have to ask you something here. When you say it hurt.  Was this the first time a man was inside you? 
KELLY No.  I've done it a couple of times, I mean with guys I dated.  But this hurt... like, he was built... you know... 
GLORIA (O.S.) He was large? 
Kelly nods, starts to break down again, then holds it off. 
GLORIA (O.S., CONT'D) Did you try to fight him? 
KELLY I... he had my wrists pinned behind me. I remember my hands were cold.' 
GLORIA (O.S.) Then what? 
SAM That's good, Jimbo.  I'll see you on Monday. 
Jimmy hesitates, he wants to say something.  Sam waves him off. Jimmy gives Art a hard look and heads for the grass. 
SAM (CONT'D) (to Art, nodding after Jimmy) What's left of my sailing class. 
Art studies the dock between his feet. 
SAM (CONT'D) Talk to me Artie. 
ART Kelly Van Ryan... 
SAM ... is accusing me of rape.  Jimmy told me.  Apparently I'm the last to know... 
ART Sam... I... (a long beat) Sandra Van Ryan's been on the horn with every member of the school board all day long.  She's pushing for suspension... 
SAM This is insane. 
Art shakes his head. 
ART All I can tell you Sam, is hang in there.  They clear you of this mess, you get reinstated, with back pay... 
SAM That's great.  I'll just tell my creditors I'm not a rapist.  No problem... Shit. (beat) I can't believe the board's going to act without even hearing my side of it. 
ART The Van Ryan family created Blue Bay. They built the school... Sandra Van Ryan calls up the board and says kiss my ass, they say, left, right, or in the middle. (beat) You're gonna need some help on this one, Sam.  You're gonna need a lawyer, and he'd better be a good one. 
EXT. STRIP MALL - DAY 
Typical of its kind -- a Blockbuster Video, a 7-Eleven, half a dozen small businesses, one of which, sandwiched between a donut shop and the Mongolian Beef Bowl, bears the sign:  "KEN BOWDEN -- ATTORNEY AT LAW." 
INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY 
Sam sits in a cramped waiting room, leafing through a magazine. 
An attractive young SECRETARY sits a few feet away, behind her desk.  Her PHONE RINGS.  She picks it up, then turns to Sam, favoring him with a flirtatious smile. 
SECRETARY Mr. Bowden will see you now. 
INT. OFFICE - DAY 
Ken Bowden, a slightly oily-looking young man in a nice suit and a large, padded neck brace, rises to shake Sam's hand. 
KEN Sam, hey, it's been a while. (beat) Looked for you at the ten year reunion. You missed out.  Three days at the Disneyworld Hotel... Partied ourselves silly. 
Sam nods. 
KEN (CONT'D) Couple of your old flames were there. You remember Jill, with the knockers. 
Ken holds his hands out in front of his chest. 
KEN (CONT'D) Blew up like the Goodyear blimp. 
Sam forces a smile. 
KEN (CONT'D) But check this... 
SAM (interrupting) Ken.  I'm in some trouble.  I need an attorney and you're the only one I know. So I figured I'd start here. 
Ken stops, puts on a serious face. 
KEN Well, I'm glad you did.  And I'm sorry. (folding his hands before him) Why don't you tell me about it. 
Sam looks at him.  He starts to speak, then checks himself. 
SAM What did you do to your neck? 
Ken puts a hand to his throat, as if aware of the brace for the first time. 
KEN Oh this... chiropractor did a number on me. 
He takes the brace off, tossing it on his desk. 
KEN (CONT'D) I don't really have to wear the thing all the time. (beat) A guy from the insurance was here. 
Ken smiles.  Sam looks slightly ill. 
KEN (CONT'D) Go ahead, Sam.  Shoot.  Let's see what we've got here. 
EXT. A BLUE HAY RESTAURANT - NIGHT 
Trendy nouveau.  A valet parks Sam's Jeep. 
INT. RESTAURLNT - SAME 
Sam walks across a tiled entry.  He looks tired, but smiles at the maitre d'. 
SAM Georgie, hey.  I'm meeting Barbara.  She here yet? 
GEORGE looks stiff, maybe a little nervous.  Sam picks up on it. He scans the room... 
ANGLE ON ROOM 
Sam and Ken eye one another over a green plastic table -- Ken with his neck brace, Sam with a bruised face. 
KEN I figured, you know, it would be darker in here. 
He moves a hand to his face. 
SAM Good thinking. 
KEN You can tie whoever did it to Sandra Van Ryan... 
SAM Forget it. 
KEN Lady has some deep pockets.  That's all I'm saying. 
SAM I know how deep her pockets are, Ken.  I thought I might be able to save my fucking house with an equity loan. Guess who's on the board of directors at the bank? 
He pauses to look at Ken Bowden. 
SAM (CONT'D) Can't you take that stupid thing off? 
KEN Not in here.  Chiropractor comes in here for lunch sometimes. 
San sighs, slumps back in his plastic seat. 
KEN (CONT'D) You're not in bad shape, really.  I know you think you are, but you're not.  Let me tell you why. (beat) Sandra Van Ryan. 
SAM What's that supposed to mean? 
KEN For you to be getting this kind of heat, for what they have on you... It doesn't add up.  Sandra Van Ryan's got 'em running scared. (beat) And I'll tell you something else, you rush, you get careless. 
Ken reaches into his briefcase.  He pulls out some papers, tosses them on the table.  Sam picks one up, starts to read. 
SAM Nellie Gail Ranch... 
KEN Sound nice?  It's a fucking drug rehab farm.  It's where Kelly Van Ryan went when her morn fished her out of the swamp. (beat) Meanwhile, you get educator of the year I mean there's no way they can put this thing in front of a jury. (beat) Shit, they haven't even taken your statement yet.  Reason?  They're still shoveling dirt and my guess is, they're coming up empty.  Now tell me I'm right. 
SAM There's nothing for them to get. 
KEN Good.  So what we're going to do is march right to Hunter's doorstep.  We're going to insist they take a statement. We're going to tell them to charge your ass or get off your back. (beat) They're walking a fine line here. Defamation of character, malicious prosecution... 
SAM I just want my life back... 
KEN Fair enough.  Let's go make a statement. 
INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 
Everyone's looking a little tired, with the possible exception of Ray.  At this moment he sits back in his chair, staring at Sam. 
RAY Why don't you tell us one more time, how Kelly came to be with you, alone in your house. 
SAM (with growing impatience) Story's the same, Detective... 
Ken pats him on the arm.  When Sam speaks again, it is in a calmer voice, calm but tired. 
SAM (CONT'D) I had to go look for this coupon. 
RAY The one you bought at school. 
SAM (nodding) Like I said, I hadn't really expected to use it. (beat) Anyway, I'm going through a drawer.  I hear a car.  I look out the window.  I see Nicole driving away.  I leave my room, and there's Kelly. 
RAY In cutoffs, a wet T-shirt. 
SAM Yes. 
RAY And she wanted to talk. 
SAM Yes. 
RAY But you can't tell us what she wanted to talk about. 
SAM I could, but it's confidential.  Look, the point is, we didn't talk.  I told her this was not an appropriate time or place. 
RAY And she began to cry.  And you put an arm around her. 
SAM Yes.  Mainly to turn her toward the door.  I told her we would talk on Monday, in the office. 
GLORIA And when you turned her toward the door, where did you expect her to go, without a car? 
SAM Again.  I think we covered this.  I told her I was going to call a cab. 
RAY But she ran away. 
SAM That's right. 
GLORIA Did you call anyone?  Did you call her house to see if she got home?  Did you call the Masons? 
SAM No. 
GLORIA Weren't you a little worried about her...? 
SAM There's a strip mall not half a mile from my house.  There's phones there.  I cruised the place, but I didn't see her. I figured she was probably there but that she was angry and didn't want to be found.  I don't know... Maybe I should have called.  But it's not like Kelly can't take care of herself.  I figured we'd just take it up on Monday, in the office. 
RAY Yeah, well, Van Ryan got his.  I don't imagine he gives a shit now. 
Gloria just looks at him.  Ray stares into the dusty light of an approaching sunset.  At last he slows, turning off the highway and onto a narrow dirt road. 
A sign pokes out from the tall grass -- "SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP." 
The Taurus bounces along the washboard road. 
GLORIA You're sure we're not lost? 
They are driving now at the edge of a canal. 
RAY You remember that little girl walked out of our talk at Blue Bay? 
GLORIA The skinny brunette. 
RAY This is where she lives.  She wants to talk. (beat) Beats the shit out of me why she would call me at all.  I busted her once for possession.  she wound up doing about six months at Camp Nine. 
GLORIA You mean Camp Sixty-Nine. 
Ray gives her a look.  Gloria shrugs. 
GLORIA (CONT'D) That's what they called it when I was in Juvenile.  It's a pretty dismal place. 
RAY It's a shithole.  But she was dirty, what was I gonna do? 
They pass a sagging chain-link fence, entering a quarter-mile run of shabby trailers and cheap shacks. 
The squalor of the buildings is seat in contrast to the beauty of the Glades where the waters have gone to the color of polished brass beneath an immense, darkening sky. 
Ray parks before a ramshackle building covered in vines and peeling paint.  A sign reads:  "NIGHT CRAWLERS $1 A BUCKET."  The jawbones of numerous gators hang beneath the eaves. 
As they get out of the car, something catches Gloria's eye -- along the bank of the canal... 
ANGLE ON BANK 
where a tall man (WALTER) with long white hair and tattooed arms kneels inside a pen, slapping a huge gator on its snout.  The reptile lifts its upper body, hissing, opening its jaws. 
Walter takes a stick from his hip pocket, passing it through the gator's mouth.  The jaws snap shut, incredibly fast, with a hollow snapping sound. 
Gloria jumps instinctively, then watches, aghast, as Walter slaps the creature once more.  This time moving round to the front of the gator, sticking halt his arm inside its mouth. 
VOICE (0.5.) He's just showin' off for you now. 
Gloria starts, then turns to find a woman (RUBY) has walked up beside her.  The woman is in her sixties.  She's dressed in polyester.  Her hair is piled on top of her head -- too dark to be anything but a dye job.  A cigarette bobs from her lips. 
Before Gloria can respond, Ray steps up behind than. 
RAY Evening Ruby. (beat) I see you still got Walter.  I was sort of hoping something had eaten him by now. 
RUBY (a long beat) Can I help you with something? 
Ray and the old lady look at each other. 
RAY Suzie called.  You know where we can find her? 
Ruby looks toward the store. 
RUBY You know the way. 
She watches as the detectives CROSS the road, then calls to them as they start up the steps. 
RUBY (CONT'D) You won't shoot her will you?  I don't believe she's armed. 
Gloria turns, surprised.  Ray gives the woman a long, cold stare, then opens the door for Gloria. 
INT. CAMP STORE - SAME 
It's dark inside.  The main light source is a tiny, beat-up black-and-white TV. 
Two elderly women in colored bouffant hairdos sit on a ratty old couch watching reruns of "Family Feud."  They look up as Ray and Gloria ENTER then EXIT through a door in the back. 
INT. SUZIE'S ROOM - SAME 
Black walls.  Cheap bookshelves, filled to overflowing.  A wire strung with dismembered doll parts runs the length of the room. 
Suzie is propped on a ratty futon, an open book on her stomach, her thin, white arms crossed behind her head. 
SUZIE Jesus.  It took you long enough.  What if somebody was trying to strangle me? Or fuck me in the ass, even? (beat) I mean, you guys are Sex Crimes. 
Ray manages a thin smile. 
RAY Meet my partner, Gloria Perez. 
SUZIE I did.  At Blue Balls. 
GLORIA Seems to me you left early, before we could meet.  But hi, Suzie. 
Gloria puts out a hand.  Suzie looks at it, puts out a hand of her own. 
As the women shake, Gloria looks at the book on Suzie's stomach, turning her head as if to read the title. 
Gloria gets to her feet as well; she tries to put an arm around Suzie.  The girl jumps back as if she has been shocked. 
SUZIE (CONT'D) Don't touch me. 
Gloria's hands fall to her sides. 
Suzie heads for the door. 
The detectives exchange looks. 
At which point, Suzie stops, turns to face the room. 
SUZIE (CONT'D) He did say something. 
GLORIA What was that? 
SUZIE He said, "No little bitch can ever make me come." 
THE SLIDING BAR DOOR 
of a jail SLAMS shut on Sam Lombardo.  He turns to... 
TWO menacing PRISONERS. 
PRISONER So you're the new chicken licker. 
CUT TO: 
COURT TV IMAGE 
The graphic -- "Prime Time Justice" -- then the anchor -- CYNTHIA. 
CYNTHIA (TV) Today from Superior Court in Miami, Florida -- Dade County versus Samuel J. Lonbardo. 
PULL BACK to REVEAL... 
INT. ART'S OFFICE, BLUE BAY HIGH - DAY 
Art, students, faculty members huddle around the TV. 
CYNTHIA (TV, CONT'D) The Lonbardo rape case has galvanized the upscale town of Blue Bay... 
EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY 
Video crews surround a limo as Sandra and Kelly EMERGE. 
CYNTHIA (V.0., CONT'D) ... with its tabloid appeal -- Sandra Van Ryan -- jet-set real estate heiress... 
Tom Baxter and Barbara jostle up the steps. 
CYNTHIA (V.0., CONT'D) The powerful Blue Bay elite... 
Suzie, in the company of Ruby and Walter, pushes past the video crews. 
CYNTHIA (V.0., CONT'D) ... the girl from the wrong side of the tracks... 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Bryce Hunter confers with his team. 
Ken in his neck brace, ENTERS with Sam and a bailiff.  Sam wears a suit.  Re's clean-shaven, recovered from the car wreck and beating.  Still, there is a weariness about him we have not seen before.  He makes eye contact with Sandra -- a cold stare. 
CYNTHIA (V.0., CONT'D) In the end, the prosecution's case will come down to... 
INT. COURTROOM - DAY 
Hunter in front of the jury. 
HUNTER ... what happened to Kelly Lanier Van Ryan and Susan Marie Toller that will forever change the lives of these two young women?  What happened in those fifteen minutes alone with Samuel Lombardo? 
CLOSE ON SAM 
The dark, seductive eyes. 
INT. COURTHOUSE - WITNESS WAITING ROOM - DAY 
Suzie, nervous, paces the floor, stops, lights a cigarette. 
The other witnesses sit in chairs along the wail -- the lawn mower man, cul-de-sac kids, Barbara, Nicole, as... 
IN THE COURTROOM 
Kelly Van Ryan sits in the witness box, dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief while Bryce Hunter stands before her.  The room is silent, the spectators riveted on the scene. 
HUNTER Do you need more time? 
Kelly shakes her head, no. 
HUNTER (CONT'D) I know this is hard, Kelly, but I have just one more question and even though its something we've been over, I want us all to be very clear about it. (a long beat) When you made the decision to stay at Mr. Lombardo's house, after he had offered you a ride.  When you saw that he intended to have sex with you, what were your exact words?  What did you say? 
KELLY I told him, no.  I said stop, Mr. Lombardo, please... I screamed for him to stop... 
Ray nods. 
GLORIA (CONT'D) Yeah, well, I told you they were gonna make us look stupid. 
Ray gives her a long look.  Gloria waits a moment, shrugs. 
RAY Hey, don't back away from it, you were right.  We did look stupid. (beat) What you were wrong about, is who made us look that way. 
Gloria just looks at him, puzzled. 
RAY (CONT'D) Think back, before the suit was filed, before the trial.  Lombardo had an affair with Sandra, right? (Gloria nods) So why not tell us about the affair?  I mean it could be a hell of a motive for Kelly to fabricate her charge in the first place. 
GLORIA Maybe Lombardo's attorney was saving the affair for the trial. 
RAY I thought of that.  Then I said, come on, you're Lombardo.  Your reputation is getting trashed.  You want to stop the bleeding.  You don't want to sit in jail for three months.  Unless... 
GLORIA Unless what? 
RAY Unless you're setting up Sandra Van Ryan for the big payday. 
It is quiet in the office, save for the soft BUZZ of Ray's COMPUTER. 
RAY (CONT'D) They chumped us, Gloria, right from the start. 
GLORIA Why?  You ask me, Lombardo had it pretty good already, nice job in a beautiful setting, popular, an active social life. (beat) He's gonna put this all on the line for some dicey play like what you're describing... 
RAY (interrupting) The job looks okay to us.  But look at it from his point of view.  The man's surrounded by wealth and privilege.  But for him... it's just a reminder of what should have been his. 
Gloria gives this a moment's thought. 
RAY (CONT'D) Your old man graduates from Blue Bay School, you're not supposed to wind up there.  Board of Directors maybe, but not in the lousy guidance office.  Now. Point number two. (he taps at the printout on his desk) I've run a financial on Lombardo.  Guy was eyeball-deep in debt before this all happened -- trying to keep up with pricey trim like Barbara Baxter. 
He passes the printout to Gloria.  She looks at it, thinking. 
GLORIA So what about the girls?  Suzie's poor, but why would Kelly have to steal from her own mother?  Surely her father... 
RAY (interrupting) Her father didn't leave her squat.  The kid's got money in trust from her grandfather, but she can't touch that till her mother dies and Sandra seems to have the idea that Kelly ought to learn the value of a buck. 
Gloria looks over Lombardo's financial once more, tosses it on the desk, then studies Ray -- long beat. 
GLORIA This one's got you working overtime, hasn't it? 
RAY I flat don't like the guy, Glory.  He's dirty.  And I'll tell you something else.  You want to know how old man Lombardo lost his money? (beat) He was fucked out of it by old man Van Ryan, on a little item known as the Salt Creek Land Deal. (beat) It was after the war.  Van Ryan set up a corporation to develop swamp land, got investors like Lombardo to put up money, then turned around and got the state to declare the area an ecological preserve, on the sly, of course, but everyone knew it was him.  The freeway went to the coast, right where Van Ryan wanted it. 
GLORIA Eliminate the competition. 
RAY You got it.  The rich got richer.  While the saps like Lombardo went belly-up in the swamp. 
Gloria looks at him a long moment. 
GLORIA Where'd you come up with this stuff, anyway? 
RAY (a long beat; then beneath a smile) I net a guy in a bar. 
EXT. A BANK, BLUE BAY - DAY 
Sam walks down the steps, gets into his Jeep, and drives away. 
Across the street -- the white Taurus -- Ray and Gloria watch. 
EXT. YACHT BROKERAGE - DAY 
Sam comes out, rounds a corner and is gone. 
Ray Duquette steps INTO FRAME, turns into the brokerage.  The door swings shut behind him. 
INT. SWIMMING POOL, BLUE BAY SCHOOL - DAY 
Girls in tank suits finish laps, towel off.  As the girls begin to walk toward the lockers, they encounter... 
Ray Duquette, threading his way among the girls, his eye on... 
Kelly, alone on the deck, still dripping -- a Botticelli vision. 
RAY (O.S.) Nice stroke. 
Kelly, startled, turns to find Ray walking toward her across the deck.  She snatches a towel from one of the racing platforms and begins to dry herself, wrapping the towel around her. 
KELLY Is there some reason why you're here? 
RAY Curiosity, I guess. 
KELLY About what?  How to improve your breast stroke? 
Ray gives her a cold smile. 
RAY Actually, I was curious about how you see things working out, for you, Sam and Suzie. 
This appears to give her pause, a moment of hesitation. 
KELLY Excuse me? 
He takes a sheet of paper from his coat. 
RAY (CONT'D) Here, Suzie.  I want you :o look this over.  Know what it is? (as Suzie takes it) Sam deposited his check, transferred the funds to an offshore bank, a numbered account.  Not even the cops can find out whose names are on it.  Think one of them's yours? 
Suzie looks over the paper. 
RAY (CONT'D) He also put a down on some island property, and a lease-to-buy on a forty-foot sailboat.  You're into sailing, aren't you, Suzie? 
Suzie thrusts the paper back at Ray. 
SUZIE Get away from me. 
RAY Don't you see what this means?  You really think Sam and Kelly are gonna give you a third of the money?  You, the pill-head with the rap sheet? 
SUZIE Shut up. 
Ray smiles at her.  He moves up close. 
RAY You know, I don't think I ever told you I was sorry about your little friend... What was his name? 
Suzie tries to back away.  She bumps against the rail.  Ray reaches out, takes her hand in both of his. 
RAY (CONT'D) Come on, Suzie, help me out here.  You know his name. 
Suzie looks scared, in a way she hasn't before.  When she speaks her voice is scarcely above a whisper. 
SUZIE Davy. 
RAY (nodding, a scary smile) That's right.  That was his name. 
The smile fades, as if he's thinking about something, still holding her hand, rubbing it with his fingers. 
RAY (CONT'D) Sometimes I wonder if you're really as dumb as you pretend to be. 
He looks into Suzie's eyes, slowly opening her hand to REVEAL the burn mark on her palm. 
RAY (CONT'D) But you know what?  I'd be keeping a clear mind right now if I were you. (beat) I'd hate to see you come to a bad end. Like Davy did. 
He holds her hand a moment longer, then drops it.  He goes back down he steps to the little skiff.  An outboard MOTOR STARTS in the night. 
INT. SUZIE'S ROOM - NIGHT 
Suzie cones in fast, grabs the phone, punches out a number. 
SAM (V.0.) (answering machine) This is Sam.  I'm not in right now... 
EXT./INT. RAY'S PICKUP - NIGHT 
parked behind some cottonwoods in a small launch area where the highway crosses both the canal and the road to the fish camp. 
The skiff has been shoved into the bed.  Ray sits at the wheel. He removes his glasses, wipes his face with a handkerchief, then starts at the uneven 50UNDS of a tired ENGINE, looks up to see... 
HEADLIGHTS 
Suzie's VW bouncing along the dirt road, turning onto the highway. 
RAY'S TRUCK - RAY 
watching, then starting his truck and pulling out onto the highway, following the tiny red lights of Suzie's bug. 
SXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE - MAIN GATE - NIGHT 
Suzie's VW idles.  She leans out the window, talks to the intercom, the gate opens.  The VW ENTERS.  The gate closes. 
Ray's pickup drives past.  He drives to a big lot where one of the mansions has been torn down.  He drives up onto the dirt, keeps going, right down to the water's edge where he pulls his little skiff out of the back once more. 
He walks back to the truck, pulls off his sport coat, hangs a Hi-8 video camera over his shoulder and wades out into the calm waters of the bay, pushing the skiff, then climbing in. 
EXT. VAN RYAN ESTATE, REAR OF MAIN HOUSE - NIGHT 
Suzie follows Kelly past the pool, which is all lit~up, and on toward the jacuzzi.  The whole deck is tiled in black-and-white. 
Kelly's in a bikini -- the killer body.  Suzie, the contrast -- pale, skinny, boyish, in a T-shirt and cutoff jeans.  They argue -- we CANNOT HEAR. 
EXT. THE BAY - SAME 
Ray has arrived near the docks.  He has killed his engine, maneuvering here with a single oar.  He ties the skiff off behind the Jonathan, then climbs to the dock, moving around the guest house and coming close to the pool.  He takes a position behind the cabanas, readies his camera. 
EXT. POOL AREA - SAME 
Kelly and Suzie continue their argument in front of the jacuzzi. 
KELLY I can't believe you called Sam.  What's the matter with you? 
SUZIE I'm scared, that's what.  I'm scared there's no one to trust. 
KELLY You can trust me. 
A cordless PHONE RINGS on the patio chair.  Kelly and Suzie are startled by it.  Kelly answers. 
INT. SAM'S BUNGALOW - NIGHT 
KELLY Why do you make me hurt you?  It's like you want it or something. 
Suzie sobs, takes Kelly's hand. 
KELLY (CONT'D) God, you are scared, aren't you? 
Suzie runs her lips over Kelly's fingers, then pushes her T-shirt up, pushing Kelly's hand onto her breast. 
KELLY (CONT'D) And this is going to make you feel better, make you trust me... 
Suzie nods, tearing her T-shirt, getting both of Kelly's hands onto her breasts, then pushing at Kelly's wrists, getting her to pull at her nipples, hard... Kelly obliges... 
Suzie cries out in pain.  Kelly's hands move down to pull off Suzie's bottoms... 
ON RAY 
still at it with the video, his face impassive, watching. 
As Kelly pulls Suzie back into the jacuzzi, as the girls' hands slide round the curves of each other's hips, pulling themselves to each other, as the layers of steam rise to envelope them... 
CUT TO: 
VIDEOTAPE 
Kelly and Suzie making love in the jacuzzi. 
PULL BACK to REVEAL -- 
INT. POLICE ROOM - DAY 
Gloria, Ray, Hunter watch the tape.  Hunter's seen enough.  He slams the stop/tape. 
HUNTER Are you crazy, Ray? 
RAY You heard Kelly say "Sam."  That was Lombardo on the phone.  And you saw the girls... 
HUNTER Ray.  The conversation on this tape is totally unintelligible. (beat) What we have here, is you on the Van Ryan property, without a proper warrant, shooting a porn flick... 
RAY I don't believe I'm hearing this.  A month ago you were pulling these two apart at the courthouse. (beat) They were acting.  They were all acting, from the beginning.  And we bought it, hook, line and sinker... And now they're home free with six million of Sandra Van Ryan's money. 
GLORIA Which she might have saved, if she hadn't set out to destroy the man's life. 
RAY (turning now on Gloria) What?  You wouldn't go after some guy you thought raped your daughter? (beat) Cone on.  She bought the same story we did... 
Ray stops as Hunter brings the palm of his hand down on the table a loud SLAP. 
HUNTER Listen, both of you.  You're not on a case.  There is no fucking case. (beat) I've had it up to here with Sandra Van Ryan.  Ray, you keep mucking around like this and you are going to have her suing us for invasion of privacy.  Get out of these people's lives. (beat) Am I getting through on this? 
Ray walks to the door, jerks it open -- 
INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 
Sam, angry, sits in the corridor with a uniformed officer. 
Hunter sees Sam, rolls his eyes. 
HUNTER Oh, Ray... no... 
RAY You think this is just about money, about us looking foolish?  Question him. You're gonna find a stone cold manipulative psychopath.  And those girls are going to wind up dead... 
Sam lunges at Ray.  The officer and Hunter restrain him.  Gloria looks on, taken aback by Ray's accusations, Sam's response. 
HUNTER Mr. Lombardo, please.  I'm sorry about this. 
SAM Give this idiot something to do.  Let him look into the Kennedy assassination. 
Ray flares, grabs Sam, shoves him against the wall, before they can be separated once again. 
SAM (CCNT'D) (to Hunter) Next time this guy drags me down here, I'll sue you.  You're goddamn lucky I didn't sue you the first time! 
Sam storms from the room, followed by Hunter.  Ray stares after them, finally he turns, looks at Gloria, collecting himself. 
RAY Guess I kind of lost it there. 
GLORIA You could say that. 
RAY Were you ever in a situation where you could see a thing coming and you didn't do what you could to stop it? 
Gloria studies Ray, clearly concerned. 
GLORIA We all have... 
RAY I mean something bad, Gloria, something bad you saw coning, and you didn't do anything, and then it happened. (off Gloria's silence) I did that once.  I don't want to do it again. 
EXT. MALL ENTRANCE - LATE AFTERNOON 
Sam EXXTS a building, a large package of wrapped goods beneath his arm.  He looks toward the parking lot where -- 
Barbara Baxter stands beside the red Mercedes.  She tips a valet then starts toward the mall.  She sees San.  Their eyes meet.  A moment of hesitation, as neither is quite sure what to say. 
SAM You look pretty. 
Murky blackness. 
She tries to focus, sits up. 
SUZIE Kelly? 
She stands -- wobbly -- peers down the beach. 
A shape EMERGES in the blackness, moving toward her. 
SUZIE (CONT'D) Kelly? 
The shape gets closer and closer, until... 
Sam Lombardo steps up to loom over Suzie. 
She takes a step back. 
Sam puts a hand on her shoulder.  He carries something in his other hand -- hard to see on the dark beach. 
SAM Suzie, it's okay.  It's me. 
Suzie steadies herself.  A face APPEARS behind Sam -- Kelly. 
SAM (CONT'D) I was worried about you, Suzie.  I decided we should all get together, one more time, before we split up. 
SUZIE Are you mad at me? 
SAM No, no.  Look, I probably should have told you a little more, about the part I intended to play. (beat) We'll go through it all again tonight. 
Sam takes the bottle from Suzie, looks at it. 
SAM (CONT'D) This is a celebration Suzie, not a suicide pact. 
He lifts the object in his other hand -- a champagne battle. 
SAM (CONT'D) We'll chill out first, have a drink, watch the stars. 
Suzie nods. 
SAM (CONT'D) Kelly, there's a beach blanket in the Jeep.  Could you get it for us? 
Kelly nods, starts back, looks once over her shoulder as... 
Sam leads Suzie toward a huge rock formation. 
SAM (CONT'D) Let me tell you about this boat I picked out for us... 
They move OUT OF SIGHT.  Kelly continues to walk, back along the sand toward the cars. 
INSERT - A SCREAM 
A sickening hollow THWACK -- an arc of blood and two teeth fall silently on dark stone. 
Kelly begins to run, stumbling through the sand to Sam's Jeep, where she pulls a big roll of clear plastic from behind the seats.  She stuffs it under her arm, then runs back along the beach.  As she runs, she can hear them -- more THWACKS, MOANS -- it seems like forever 
Sam APP£ARS before her on the sand.  The champagne bottle swings loosely at the end of one arm.  it looks shiny now, dripping with Suzie's blood. 
Kelly goes to him.  She looks at the bottle, then throws herself against him -- a hard kiss. 
SAM I'm sorry, Kelly.  I'm sorry it had to happen like this.  She was losing it... 
KELLY (breathless) There was no way.  That cop would've gotten her to tell him... everything. She was weak and dumb... 
She kisses him again, her hands moving over his body.  Sam takes a step back, looks into Kelly's face -- the parted lips, sultry eyes -- as if seeing her for the first time -- a long beat -- at which point he turns, heaving the champagne bottle as far as he can into the black waves. 
EXT. RANGE ROVER ON THE SAUD - LATER 
Rear hatch open -- overhead light on. 
Sam and Kelly drag Suzie's body -- wrapped in the plastic -- to the rear hatch.  As they heft her inside, the light catches -- 
SUZIE'S FACE 
A mask of blood. 
Kelly turns away in disgust.  She goes to the passenger side door, gets in. 
Sam gets in behind the wheel.  For a moment the two of them just sit there, in the darkness, with the SOUND of the SEA, and their own BREATHING.  Sam looks at Kelly. 
She is focused on the dark Atlantic. 
SAM Are you okay? 
Kelly turns to him -- an anxious face. 
KELLY (a long beat) My mom would kill me if she knew I took the Rover. 
EXT. EVERGLADES - NIGHT 
Kelly waits by the Rover, swatting mosquitoes. 
SANDRA I'm here to congratulate my friends and their children.  I'm leaving again tonight. 
KELLY Don't bother.  I'm taking a trip. 
SANDRA Where, the mall? 
KELLY A friend of mine bought a boat. 
Sandra shakes her head, walks off. 
Kelly turns away, freezes, as she catches sight of -- 
Ray talking with Jimmy. 
EXT. THE BEACH - DAY 
Ray and Jimmy walk along the sand, moving in the direction of the big rocks.  Jimmy wears sagger shorts, a surfer T-shirt.  Ray wears a suit.  He carries the coat over his shoulder. 
JIMMY It's those rocks, up there. 
RAY You and Suzie used to come out here together? 
JIMMY Yeah, sometimes.  Lots of the kids hang out here. (beat) You really think something bad happened to Suzie? 
RAY (ignoring the question) Lombardo ever come out here? 
Jimmy looks at him, surprised, sees that Ray is serious.  Still, the idea generates a laugh. 
RAY (CONT'D) I say something funny? 
JIMMY No.  But I mean... just the idea that Mr. Lombardo would... 
RAY Way I hear it, he was pretty tight with the kids, one of the guys... 
JIMMY Yeah, but... 
He breaks off as Ray kneels over a big flat rock.  Ray brushes away some sand, drapes the sport coat over his arm, taking tweezers and latex gloves from the pockets. 
Jimmy moves closer, curious, seeing what Ray sees. 
CLOSE ON GLOVED HANDS 
as tweezers pick up two teeth from a crevice in the stone. 
Ray straightens, holding the teeth in the palm of his hand. 
Jimmy stares at the teeth. 
Ray takes a couple of bills from his pocket, hands them to Jimmy. 
RAY I'm going to be staying here, Jimmy. You can catch a bus up there at the lot, okay? 
Jimmy looks a little sick, but he takes the money.  He starts toward the lot. 
Ray watches for a moment.  Then calls out to him. 
RAY People aren't always what they appear to be, kid.  Remember it. 
Jimmy looks at him, trying to make sense of what Ray is saying, clearly disturbed by the implications.  But he asks no more questions.  He turns, trudging alone back through the sand. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. OCEAN COVE - LATER 
THE TEETH go into a plastic bag. 
PULL BACK TO REVEAL 
Black-and-whites, county cars -- police tape across the site. 
Ray, Gloria and Hunter watch as DAVE MERRITT, a forensic expert bags the teeth.  He passes the bag to Ray, then bends to the rocks where he begins to take a blood sample. 
RAY Lonbardo and Kelly killed her here. 
Hunter and Gloria exchange a look. 
GLORIA Two kids could've gotten into a fight, lost a couple of teeth. 
RAY Those are Suzie Toller's teeth. 
GLORIA Where's the body? 
RAY The swamp, most likely... Lombardo's a swamp rat, knows the body will never be found there.  But he's made a mistake. 
He holds up the evidence bag containing the teeth. 
GLORIA Her grandmother said she'd been threatening to run away.  And I found the car at the Miami bus terminal. 
RAY You don't think Sam could've put it there? 
HUNTER Dust it for prints.  My guess is, if anybody murdered Suzie it was probably that little sociopath Kelly Van Ryan. 
SAM Yeah, he got her busted for possession... 
KELLY I don't know... I think it was something else... Suzie says the bust was bullshit... 
SAM And you believe her? 
KELLY (a long beat -- a sigh) I don't know. (beat) I want to see you... 
SAM Kelly... Relax.  Take one of your mom's valium or something.  In another week you get on the plane.  It's over.  We're rich. 
KELLY But what if they find out... God, they'd put you in the gas chamber... 
Sam is about to respond, then looks out the window, sees... 
ACROSS THE STREET, the white Taurus. 
SAM So if they're tapping your phone, we're dead.  Stay in the guest house.  Skip the graduation parties.  You'll never see Duquette.  Okay?  I love you. 
KELLY (beat) Okay.  I love you too. 
INT. TAURUS - SAME - GLORIA 
sees the light go out in Sam's room, lowers her binoculars, sits for a moment, then begins to write something on a pad. 
She's still at it when something KNOCKS at a FENDER.  She looks up, startled, to find... 
Sam in the street, still shirtless, his arms and shoulders back-lit by the neon light of the Glades Motel. 
SAM Isn't that against the law, peeking into windows? 
GLORIA (a long beat) Suzie Toller is missing. 
Sam lets out his breath, shakes his head. 
SAM How long? 
GLORIA She didn't cone home last night.  We found her car at the bus terminal, but nothing to suggest she bought a ticket. 
SAM Maybe she used another name. 
GLORIA Ray thinks she was murdered. 
Sam shakes his head once more. 
SAM I don't know what to say... 
GLORIA You could tell me where you were last night. 
Sam stares at her. 
SAM Goddannit... I don't have to... 
He stops himself, calms down. 
SAM Come here.  I want you to see something. 
Gloria hesitates, looks up at Sam, then puts down the phone and opens her door. 
INT. GLADES MOTEL - SAME 
Sam and Gloria walk among the boxes and suitcases. 
GLORIA Looks like goodbye. 
Sam nods.  He goes to one of his cardboard filing boxes, pulls out a file, hands it to Gloria.  As she takes it, he goes to the closet, takes a shirt from a hanger. 
SAM Kelly's file.  Read it.  You're going to find an angry, sexually confused girl who's made threats on her mother's life and a female lover she'd never identify. 
GLORIA Suzie? 
Sam shrugs. 
SAM You're telling me Ray thinks Suzie was killed.  I don't have to ask you who he thinks did it, do I? (beat) All I'm saying is, read that, you'll have a new perspective on things. 
Gloria sits on the bed, the file in her hand.  She watches as Sam pulls on the shirt. 
GLORIA Why didn't you tell us about this before the trial? 
Sam holds her eyes. 
SAM Then -- I still had ethical standards to protect.  They meant a lot to me.  Now, I don't care.  And no amount of money can buy that back. 
Sam is interrupted by the HONKING of a HORN.  He looks outside. 
ANGLE ON LOT - SAM'S POV 
A taxi waits in the glow of the green neon. 
Sam looks down on Gloria, seated on his bed, her skirt short enough to REVEAL shapely legs.  For a moment the two hold one another's eyes. 
SAM (CONT'D) My ride.  If you're not planning on arresting me, that is. 
She seems to sense Sam watching, turns toward the beach.  Her eyes meet Sam's.  She breaks into a beautiful smile. 
VIDEOTAPE - RAY 
HUNTER (O.S.) She bit you? 
RAY Bit, scratched.  But I had her pinned. She calmed down.  I was going to cuff her... She said she thought she was going to be sick.  She asked to use the bathroom. 
EXT. BEACH RESORT - DAY 
Sam and the island girl sit at an outdoor table.  The girl wears a short, terry cloth robe, Sam the white shorts and a flowered shirt.  They sip drinks.  Their eyes meet.  Their fingers touch. 
VIDEOTAPE - RAY 
RAY I told her I was coming with her.  She nodded, like she understood.  We stood up together. 
HUNTER (O.S.) You didn't cuff her? 
RAY She looked shaky, but lucid.  I thought, I would just go with her, stand at the door... (shaking his head) I think I looked away.  A split second. Then, bingo.  Just like that.  She puts a knee into my groin. (beat) There was this coffee table between us and the wall.  She got one foot on that thing and launched herself at the gun case.  Thing had a glass door.  I could hear it breaking. (beat) I didn't go down, but she slowed me up, just enough.  Before I could get to her, she'd turned on me with this small caliber handgun.  I yelled at her to put it down.  She got off a shot.  I took it in the shoulder.  I... I had no choice. I returned fire.  Two rounds, I think. In the chest. 
INT. POLICE ROOM - SAME 
A moment of silence, save for the BUZZING of the MACHINE.  A number of plainclothes police, Hunter and Gloria among them, watch the tape. 
RAY I went there to protect her... 
He hangs his head, then looks up, his eyes focusing. 
RAY (CONT'D) The teeth, were they... 
HUNTER (0.S.) Suzie Toller's.  And that's the only thing saving your sorry ass. 
EXT. BOAT HARBOR (CARIBBEAN ISLAND) - DAY 
Brilliant sun on turquoise water.  A few boats anchored in a lagoon.  A quiet place. 
Heading out -- a forty-foot sloop, Sam at the helm. 
INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY 
Gloria, Baxter, a tearful Sandra, sit in seats, watch as -- 
Ray stands before a panel, A SUIT, A CHIEF in uniform, Hunter. 
Ray wears a suit, his hair neatly trimmed.  His arm is no longer in a sling, but one of his hands is still bandaged. 
CHIEF Detective Duquette; our investigation concludes that this was a good shooting. But that's irrelevant.  You were not assigned to this case -- whatever you imagined this case to be.  And now two young women are dead.  You are terminated with forfeiture of pension and benefits. 
Ray looks at the floor. 
Hunter coughs.  His hands rest on a file -- we SEE the video cassette inside -- labeled "TOLLER/VAN RYAN -- CONFIDENTIAL." 
HUNTER Suzie Toller's teeth and blood were found near the area known as Stoner Rocks.  Suzie's blood was found in the Van Ryan Range Rover.  This, in conjunction with evidence obtained by Detectives Duquette and Perez has led this office to the conclusion that Susan Marie Toller was murdered by Kelly Lanier Van Ryan... 
Sandra chokes back a sob.  She gets to her feet, to be led from the room by Tom Baxter. 
Gloria Perez watches, a sad look in her eye, then turns to look at Ray.  His back is to her -- the broad shoulders, expensive suit.  His hands are clasped behind his back. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. BLUE BAY CEMETERY - KELLY'S FUNERAL - DAY 
Gloria stands among a considerable number of mourners.  She is just back from Sandra and Tom Baxter, who, in turn, are just back from the open grave. 
As Gloria watches, Sandra looks off to the side, where something catches her eye.  Gloria sees her start, then follows her gaze. 
ANGLE ON CEMETERY - GLORIA'S POV 
On a rise some fifty yards from the Van Ryan plot, two people stand near an old oak -- Ruby and Walter. 
When Gloria looks back at Sandra, it seems to her as if the woman has slumped against Tom Baxter, who now stares at the two people on the rise as if, by doing so with sufficient intensity, he might make them disappear. 
Gloria turns to the grave site, her eye lingers on the open grave, then moves to the huge marker which dominates the Van Ryan family plot and, in fact, the entire scene. 
ANGLE CN MARKER 
The angel Gabriel, trumpet in hand, carved in relief upon a huge obelisk of black marble.  Beneath the angel is a carved scroll and upon it the words: 
"I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE," and below that:  "WILLIAM TECUMSEH VAN RYAN.  MAY HE REST IN PEACE." 
DISSOLVE TO: 
EXT. A BEACH - NIGHT 
Sam Lombardo walks along a moonlit lagoon, headed toward a lone bungalow. 
The bungalow is simple, picturesque -- whitewashed walls, a thatched roof.  A patio opens onto the beach. 
EXT. PATIO - SAME 
As Sam steps in off the sand, he sees something and stops short. 
RUBY (a long beat) He used to come around here.  He had a thing going with one of the girls over at the Glades. 
Ruby nods toward the motel, a bitter smile on her face. 
RUBY (CONT'D) Got sort of hung up on her, from what hear. 
GLORIA She still work there? 
RUBY No.  Not after that night. (a long beat) I don't know what happened.  Maybe he caught her with some john... All I know is, the next morning the girl was gone and there was a dead boy... Indian kid named Davy.  Used to live down the road there in a wrecked car. Him and Suzie were at the Glades that night. (beat) It was right after that, Ray got Suzie busted and sent her away.  That's what there is to say about Ray Duquette. 
GLORIA Was there ever any kind of investigation... 
Ruby cuts her off with a short laugh. 
RUBY Duquette always claimed the kid was dusted, came after him with a knife. But it was Jack's Fish Camp... This could be the moon for all most people care. (a long beat) Wasn't supposed to be like that though. This place was supposed to be something once.  There were going to be roads and houses.  There was going to be a town. They were going to call it Salt Creek. 
EXT. OCEAN - DAY 
From the surface of the sea -- the emerald island in the distance.  The bow of the sloop comes INTO FRAME. 
On board -- Sam stands in the cockpit, at the helm.  Ray lounges on the deck.  The boat sails easily before the wind. 
SAM Ray... you see that winch by your head? Take a couple of turns on it for me, she's luffing. 
Ray cranes his neck to look at the winch. 
RAY You mean this thing? 
SAM Yes, we call it a winch. (pointing at pieces of the rigging) And these are shrouds, and these are stays. 
RAY I thought this was supposed to be a vacation.  Why didn't you buy a nice big power boat? 
SAM Come on, man.  I'll make a sailor out of you yet. 
RAY Yeah, or get me drowned. 
Ray kneels.  He begins to tighten the winch. 
Sam watches him for a moment, then reaches around behind his back to unhook the short line which holds the boom. 
The mainsail catches wind, swinging the boom in a wide arc, directly at Ray. 
Ray looks up, sees it coming just in time to catch it on his arm. 
The blow is enough to send him sprawling through the lifelines, where he just manages to grab one of the nylon cords. 
Sam ducks as the boon continues to swing erratically above the deck, watching as Ray hauls himself on board. 
The boat no longer driven by the wind, bobs up and down on a small ground swell. 
The two men face each other. 
SAM Jesus, man... You okay? 
RAY That how you planned it?  You take cut Suzie, get me to hang it on Kelly, then dump me in the ocean... 
SAM Come off it, man... It was an accident. 
Ray nods, then reaches down, pulls off the winch handle and starts with it toward Sam. 
Sam looks around.  He jerks open a storage compartment.  A diver's weight belt tumbles out.  Sam grabs it, swings it over his head in circles, letting the weight pick up momentum, preparing to throw. 
Ray crouches, still brandishing the winch handle.  The boom sweeps the deck. 
Sam throws the belt. 
Ray grabs a shroud, dances out of the way, then steadies himself, a mean grin spreading across his face. 
There's no tine for Sam to look for anything else. 
Ray moves quickly across the deck -- a menacing sight -- tall, well-muscled, the handle gleaming in his hand. 
Sam pulls himself out of the cockpit.  Ray jumps in.  But that's as far as he gets. 
WHOOSH -- A spear pierces Ray's thigh.  He screams, goes down, the handle skittering across the deck. 
Ray follows it with his eyes, reaching out, then freezing as he sees something else.  He draws in his hand as if bitten. 
RAY You... You're... 
He scuttles backward, pulling himself onto the deck, clutching at his leg which squirts blood as if an artery has been severed. But his eyes never leave the hatchway leading belowdecks. 
RAY (CONT'D) You're dead... for godsake... 
The boat heels over.  The spear in Ray's thigh bangs against the edge of the cockpit.  He grimaces in pain as... 
Suzie Toller steps up from belowdecks.  She's wearing a bikini and showing a nice tan.  She's carrying Sam's new spear gun, a fresh spear at the ready. 
SUZIE Rumors of my demise have been greatly exaggerated. (to Sam) Nice move.  Good thing I was here to save your incompetent ass. 
Sam secures the boom.  Ray stares at Suzie, his face twisted with some combination of pain, rage and fear. 
Gloria sits on Suzie's bed, books spread out around her.  Ruby stands beside her. 
RUBY You asked if Suzie knew about the Salt Creek land deal?  Girl read every book she could find on it, the Van Ryans too. 
Ruby takes a photo album from among the books, opens it, tosses a photograph on the bed.  It is one we have seen before. 
ANGLE ON PHOTO 
A stately old gentleman in a three-piece suit.  White hair, a white handlebar mustache.  A derby on his knee, a walking stick at his side.  He stares out at the world from a high-backed wicker chair, flanked by potted palms and two small terriers. 
Across the bottom of the picture is the name -- "WILLIAM TECUMSEH VAN RYAN."  And beside that, in another hand -- "Dear old Dad." 
RUBY Wasn't enough Van Ryan had to destroy the people who invested here.  He got to be old, he and his rich cronies would come down here, hunt and whore, act like assholes.  One trip he showed up with this young girl he'd picked up somewhere, gotten her pregnant then dumped her in the swamp. (indicating the photo) That came with her. 
GLORIA And the child... 
RUBY She had it, before she drank herself to death.  Wasn't exactly a love child... 
GLORIA Suzie. (beat) Then you're not her grandmother... 
RUBY Raised her like she was, but no, Walter's my only child. (beat) He was a good boy, till the army took him. 
Gloria looks once more at the old photograph. 
GLORIA So Suzie and Sandra Van Ryan were half- sisters. 
RUBY And the other girl, Kelly.  Suzie's niece. 
Gloria stands, a little weary.  Ruby walks her from the room. 
GLORIA Thank you for talking to me, Ruby.  I am sorry about Suzie, she... 
They have gotten to the main room and Gloria stops short, noticing for the first time that the beat-up old black-and-white TV has been replaced by a high-tech, giant-screen television. 
RUBY You okay? 
GLORIA I'm fine.  Nice TV. 
The old lady nods, walks her outside. 
EXT. SMILIN' JACK'S FISH CAMP - DAY 
The dusty road, the little dock, the gator pen. 
RUBY There's an old saying from the Everglades -- virtue may be missed but sin can't hide. (a long beat) Folks pay in the end. 
Gloria nods.  She is distracted by a movement in the gator pen. 
CLOSE ON PEN 
For a moment there is nothing more than a few ripples across the surface of the pond which lies inside the pen, then, slowly, the GATOR'S EYES -- cold, reptilian, unblinking, rising up to gaze across the oily waters. 
HARD CUT TO: 
BLACK.  CREDITS... 
for about ten seconds, enough to fool the audience, then... 
INTERCUT - LIKE OUTTAKES... 
... PIECES OF SCENES WE COULDN'T SEE, or SCENES WE DIDN'T SEE AT ALL, in reverse chronological order. 
INT. GUEST HOUSE - NIGHT 
Kelly is frantically trying to unlock the gun case as Ray comes through the French doors.  She can't get it done.  He's there in an instant. 
She screams, backs away, then watches as Ray stops, wraps a hanky around his hand and breaks the glass. 
He takes out a small caliber handgun, checks the clip, aims the gun at his own shoulder and fires. 
BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then 
EXT. EVERGLADES - DAY 
A Jeep and a truck parked in the mud.  Sam and Ray meet under heavy, moss-draped cypress.  Sam hands Ray a plastic bag -- the teeth. 
SAM You know the place I'm talking about -- the big rocks? 
BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then 
EXT. BEACH - NIGHT 
SAM & SUZIE 
behind the big rocks.  He's got vise-grip pliers jammed in her mouth.  Suzie moans, for real.  He loosens his grip. 
SUZIE You've got the pressure too tight. You'll crush the fucking evidence. 
Sam takes a breath, prepares to try again.  Suzie pops a couple of pills with gulps of wine.  Sam goes to it once more. 
BLACK -- MORE CREDITS -- then 
