WILLOW 
"WILLOW" 
Story by George Lucas 
Screenplay by Bob Dolman 
First Draft Third Revision November 14, 1986 
(c) LFL 1986 Lucasfilm LTD. All Rights Reserved 
Act I 
FADE IN: 
EXT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAY 
Under gloomy sky a huge fortress looms on a volcanic mountainside.  From within WE HEAR the agonizing scream of a woman giving birth. 
INT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAY 
The scream continues as WE MOVE THROUGH the grim corri- dors of the castle TOWARD stairs leading down to a dungeon. 
INT.. DUNGEON - DAY 
Silhouetted in sadows, three Nockmaar MINIONS stand guard.  In a jail cell, sex fully pregnant WOMEN watch from behind iron bars.  The screaming stops.  There's a moment of silence.  As WE MOVE INTO another jail cell WE HEAR a slap and the first cry of a newborn BABY. 
In the cell a black-robed DRUID watches intensely as ETHNA, a midwife, leans over the MOTHER and wraps the baby in swaddling. 
DRUID Is it a girl? 
ETHNA It is a girl. 
DRUID Show me its arm. 
Ethna peels back the swaddling.  On the baby's arm is a small marking. 
DRUID It's true then.  I must tell Queen Bavmorda. 
With great urgency the druid hurries up the dungeon stairs.  Ethna gently places the baby on the mother's breast.  The mother comforst the baby lovingly until it stops crying.  Then she reaches out and clasps the midwife's wrist. 
MOTHER Ethna, please.  Help me.  They're going to kill my baby. 
Ethna nervously looks out at the guards, then shakes her head at the mother. 
ETHNA They'll kill you. 
MOTHER Please save my baby. 
Ethna hesitates.  Then decides.  She quickly wraps to- gether some rags and gives them to the mother. 
ETHNA Pretend this is the child. 
MOTHER Thank you, Ethna.  Thank you. 
The mother kisses her baby and hands it to Ethna, who hides the baby inside the basket of rags.  Ethna car- ries the basket past the guards and up the stairs. 
The mother lies back and sighs with relief.  Then she hears clinking bootsteps and her eyes widen with fear. 
QUEEN BAVMORDA sweeps down the dungeon stairs, her black robes flowing behind her.  The druid hurries alongside. 
BAVMORDA We will start the ritual at dusk. You're certain this is the one? 
DRUID It bears the markings. 
BAVMORDA I must see for myself!  Just as the omen foretold! 
The guards fearfully move aside as Bavmorda enters the cell. 
BAVMORDA So.  You *were* the one. 
MOTHER Yes.  But nothing you can do will stop the prophecy. 
BAVMORDA This child will have no power over me.... 
Bavmorda grabs the rags away from the mother and anxi- ously tears them apart. 
BAVMORDA (furiously) Where's the baby! 
One of the guards looks up the stairs. 
WILLOW Kiaya!  Kiaya! 
INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - DAY 
Willow bursts in and finds Kiaya calmly feeding the baby.  Relieved, he throws his arms around her. 
WILLOW We can't keep this baby, Kiaya.  We must take her to the Council. 
The children run in and they all huddle together, cher- ishing their precious lives. 
INT. COUNCIL BUILDING - DAY 
Arguing villagers pack the church-shaped room to the open door at the back and into the balconies above. The councilmen sit on a platform at the front, with the High Aldwin seated in a special chair above them.  Tak- ing charge, Burglekutt stands and pounds the floor with his walking stick. 
BURGLEKUTT An evil beast from the outer world has invaded our peaceful village, looking for a baby! 
This only adds to the frenzy. 
A VILLAGER It's a sign!  An omen! 
ANOTHER VILLAGER Our crops will die! 
BURGLEKUTT Silence!  One beast we can kill. But there may be more!  And they won't give up their search till they've found what they're looking for! 
MEEGOSH Whose baby is it! 
OTHER VILLAGERS Who's to blame for this! 
Amid the chaos the High Aldwin slowly stands up.  As if he senses something, he looks over the crowd toward the back. 
At the back door, holding the baby, Willow tries to push his way through the jostling crowd.  The High Aldwin raises his hand.  It flashes magically.  He points as he speaks: 
HIGH ALDWIN Willow Ufgood!  Come before me! 
The crowd stands apart as Willow walks the length of the room.  Kiaya and the children follow part way and then stand aside next to Meegosh.  Burglekutt simmers as Willow approaches the platform. 
HIGH ALDWIN Earlier today you tried to tell me something, Willow. 
WILLOW (bows his head) My family found this baby in the river, High Aldwin. 
The crowd stirs but the High Aldwin silences them with a simple gesture.  He gazes down at the baby mysteri- ously. 
HIGH ALDWIN A daikini child... (his eyes close) ...of some importance, I feel... 
BURGLEKUTT That's what the beasts want!  Give it back! 
The crowd rumbles, many agree. 
WILLOW They'll kill her!  We can't let this baby die! 
BURGLEKUTT What do we care! 
Burglekutt whips up the shouting crowd.  The High Aldwin raises his hands, feeling the air above him. Almost in a trance: 
HIGH ALDWIN ...importance...yes...this child is special... 
COUNCILMAN What should we do? 
Instantly, the High Aldwin drops his arms and opens his eyes. 
HIGH ALDWIN This child must be taken beyond the boundaries of our village.  All the way to the daikini crossroads. 
The room goes silent. 
A VILLAGER Who will do that? 
SEVERAL VILLAGERS Vohnkar!  Vohnkar! 
Vohnkar the warrior elbows his way to the front and pounds his chest once with his fist. 
HIGH ALDWIN The outer world is dangerous and corrupt, Vohnkar.  And this baby is hunted by blood-hungry beasts.  Are you willing to sacrifice your life? 
Brave Vohnkar swallows and shifts his weight doubtful- ly. 
VOHNKAR If I go, who'll defend you if other beasts attack? 
The crowd rumbles and shouts, and Vohnkar mops his brow and scuttles away from the platform. 
BURGLEKUTT He's right!  It seems only fair that the man to take this baby to the crossroads... (walking stick up) ...be the very man who plucked it... (walking stick down) ...out of the river! 
All eyes turn to Willow.  Kiaya gasps and Meegosh holds her back. 
MADMARTIGAN (spitting out dirt) Thanks for your help, Peck. 
WILLOW Are you okay? 
MADMARTIGAN As if you care.  I saved your life, Peck.  Those guys woulda killed us! (points dramatically) You wanna give your baby to them?? They eat babies! 
WILLOW I don't know. 
Madmartigan literally licks his wounds, dragging his parched tongue along the length of his forearm.  Willow begins to walk away. 
MADMARTIGAN The world's gone insane.  Good men locked in cages, criminals running free.  It doesn't pay to be honest, Peck. 
Willow stops and turns around. 
WILLOW Don't call me a Peck.  My name is Willow. 
Madmartigan slinks down like a cat and slowly extends his derty hand through the bars. 
MADMARTIGAN Hello, Willow.  I'm Madmartigan. 
Willow stares warily at the hand.  Madmartigan smiles. Willow quickly shakes his hand and jumps away.  Madmar- tigan laughs in a harmless, friendly way. 
MADMARTIGAN You a woodcutter? 
WILLOW Farmer. 
MADMARTIGAN Farmer!  I knew it!  You're a vic- tim, Willow.  Yep, you and me: victims of a rotten, corrupt, cor- rupt, rotten world. 
A rat lumbers out of the darkness and sniffs toward the baby in the porta-crib.  Madmartigan suddenly points. Willow screams and chases the rat away.  Madmartigan shakes his head as solemnly as an undertaker. 
MADMARTIGAN Listen, Willow my friend.  I'm really a good man.  Give me my freedom, and I'll look after that baby for you.  Trust me. 
After a moment, Willow takes out his dagger.  He stands on his toes under a cage, reaches up, and hacks at the chain lock.  Madmartigan's eyes widen over-eagerly.  he rubs his hands together and licks his lips. 
MADMARTIGAN That's it--good--good--like that, yes, good, good, the chain--that's it, come on--come on--! 
Willow suddenly steps away. 
WILLOW Nooo, I don't think I should. 
Madmartigan goes berserk.  His arms flail and the whole cage shakes and swings and he bangs his head on the roof. 
MADMARTIGAN Peck!!  Stupid Peck!  I'll kill ya! Let me out! 
Willow scrambles back to the fire and scoops up the baby and rocks her in his arms. 
EXT. CROSSROADS - DAWN 
Madmartigan is making something out of scraps of bark and cloth.  He smiles sweetly as Willow wakes up. 
MADMARTIGAN Morning, Willow. 
Willow turns his back on him and tends to the baby. 
MADMARTIGAN Sorry I yelled at you.  I've been in this cage toooo long.  Can't think straight anymore.  Owww...! 
Willow looks over.  madmartigan pats his arms in pain. 
WILLOW You all right? 
MADMARTIGAN These burns.  My arms.  Ouch... 
He holds up his arms in agony.  Willow fishes some gooey jelly out of his sack and smears a gob of it on a leaf.  He hands it up to Madmartigan. 
WILLOW See if this helps. 
Madmartigan wipes the goo all over his arms. 
MADMARTIGAN Aaaaaahhhh.  Better.  Here, I made something for the baby. 
He holds out a ratlle and shakes it.  Willow accepts it. 
WILLOW What's inside? 
Madmartigan sticks his finger in his mouth and pries it open as wide as possible. 
MADMARTIGAN A tooth. (Willow reacts) I'm strving.  I got no used for it. 
Noise in the distance.  up the road Willow sees a MESSENGER charging on horseback.  He gallops right past, whipping his horse, almost knocking Willow off the road.  Then another MESSENGER follows with the same urgency.  Willow grabs the baby and steps out to stop him. 
WILLOW Stop!  Wait! 
MADMARTIGAN Hello, little baby... 
EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY - LATER 
A ghostly wind hants the barren crossroads.  The road is pocked with hoofprints and wagon tracks.  Willow shakes his head at the ashes of his dead fire. 
MADMARTIGAN Whatcha thinkin' about, Willow? 
WILLOW I hate this. 
Madmartigan squeezes his face between the bars of his cage. 
MADMARTIGAN Nobody's gonna take your baby. Know why?  Nobody cares... (beat) Except me. (wistfully) You wanna go back to your farm. You wanna go back to your family. I could take care of that baby. I'll look after her like she was me own. 
WILLOW You don't know anything about ba- bies. 
Madmartigan kneels and straightens up and points up his finger astutely. 
MADMARTIGAN Ahhh!  But I know a lot of women who do.  Why, if I had somebody in my life--a little daughter for instance--I'd have a reason to live... 
He clsps his hands together outside the bars, plead- ing: 
MADMARTIGAN Willow.  You can't let me die here. Not when I wanna help you. 
Willow looks at the baby in the porta-crib.  Then looks up the empty road.  Then looks hard at Madmartigan. 
WILLOW You gotta promise to feed her. 
MADMARTIGAN I will. 
WILLOW Fresh goat's milk. 
MADMARTIGAN Absolutely! 
Willow draws his dagger and begins to hack at the chain. 
WILLOW And give her a bath everyday, and don't let her get cold.  And keep her diaper changed. 
MADMARTIGAN Of course!  I promise! 
Willow hacks and pries at the chain until it breaks open.  The bottom of the cage falls out, dumping Mad- martigan into a heap of rags and dust. 
MADMARTIGAN Come to Daddy, little darlin'. (picks her up) I think she likes me! 
Kneeling on the ground, he plays with the baby.  Willow quickly hitches the papoose to Madmartigan's back and hands him supplies. 
WILLOW Here are her diaper rags.  And this is her milk bladder.  And when she cries--she's either hungry or she's tired--rock her on your left shoulder.  She likes that. 
MADMARTIGAN Don't worry, Willow.  She's in good hands.  You haven't made a mistake. 
Willow takes the baby and kisses her. 
WILLOW Bye. 
He puts her in the papoose. 
WILLOW (to Madmartigan) Please take good care of her. 
Madmartigan stands up.  He towers above Willow.  He pats Willow on the head. 
MADMARTIGAN You've done a great job.  Now you go back to your family and get your crop in. 
Madmartigan smiles, turns, and marches off down the road.  Willow sighs with relief, his task accomplished. He watches Madmartigan and the baby disappear over a hill. 
EXT. ROAD - DAY 
Swinging his arms and whistling a tune, Willow struts proudly up a gentle hill. 
WILLOW Look, it's Willow Ufgood!  He's come home!  Welcome back, Willow! He deserves a medal:  he's quite mystical.  For honor, for bravery, for his intuitive powers... (he chuckles) ...let's make him Apprentice Aldwin.  Better still:  High Aldwin!  Make way!  It's Willow Uf- good, High Aldwin of--- 
The baby cries!  Willow spins around.  Flying towrd him is an incredible VULTURE with enormous winds.  In its claws it carries the baby, papoose and all.  It swoops straight at Willow, buzzing him, and Willow hits the dirt.  He looks up.  To add to the wonder:  riding the vulutre is an ELF. 
WILLOW Come back here, you!  That's my baby!! 
The vulture zooms off into the tall majestic trees of the forest, with the baby crying.  Shouting and waving madly, Willow gallops after it. 
EXT. THROUGH THE FOREST - DAY 
Willow tears after the vulture which vanishes in the towering trees.  As the path narrows, something whis- tlse past his ear.  Finger-length arrows rain down on him from every direction, peppering the surrounding trees.  Some even hit Willow.  He plucks them out as he races along. 
He comes to a fork in the path:  Decision!  He starts down one way, then slams on the brakes.  He sees ropes and nets. 
They enter like gunslingers in a saloon.  The four elves, who are twice their size, turn and face them. Teemo draws his small dagger.  With confidence he smiles at Rool. 
TEEMO Watch this.  Right between the eyes. 
ROOL (to the elves) He never misses. 
Artfully Teemo poises the dagger above his head.  With all his might he throws.  His dagger flip-flops through the air and lands at the elves' feet, plink-plunk. 
TEEMO Ooops.  Was that right?  That wasn't right. 
Suddenly the entire wall implodes.  The elves scream and panic as Willow comes crashing in like King Kong. He grabs the crying baby and tucks her under his arm. 
EXT. ELF HOLE - DAY 
The brownies scamper out of a hole in the ground where the elves keep their vultures corralled. 
ROOL/TEEMO Hyah!  Hyah!  Git! 
They untie th evulture and send them flapping away in the forest as Willow wiggles out of the elf hole with the baby.  They run for their lives. 
EXT. FOREST - CHASE - DAY 
Rool and teemo tear along at incredible speed, Willow barely keeping up with them.  Little elf arrows shower the forest as the angry elves chase after them, whoop- ing and screaming. 
EXT. DEEP GORGE - DAY 
They skid up to a perilously deep drop into oblivion. The elves are shrieking toward them. The only chance of excape is a huge fallen tree spanning the gorge. The brownies scamper out.  Willow looks down and reels with vertigo. 
WILLOW I can't go out there with the baby! 
ROOL/TEEMO (frantically point) Elves!! 
The elf army pours out of the forest.  Willow holds his breath and ventures out onto the topmost branches of the tree.  Arrows zing around him as he wobbles like a drunken tightrope walker toward the middle.  The brown- ies wait for him. 
WILLOW Ohhh, I hate this. 
TEEMO Take your time.  Don't worry about the elves.  They won't come out here. 
WILLOW Why not? 
ROOL Because of the trolls. 
WILLOW Trolls? 
The brownies console Willow with unworried laughter. 
TEEMO Relax.  They only come out at night. 
An ugly TROLL snarls up behind Willow.  They all scream and race for the other side.  Another TROLL pops up to meet them.  The trolls slink along like possums.  The brownies dive through a hole in the hollow tree trunk. 
The elves, meanwhile, flint-start a fire at their end of the tree.  One troll claws at the brownies inside the trunk while the other chases Willow across gangling branches.  Then the baby falls out of the papoose!  She tumbles and catches on a low branch and Willow races the troll and grabs her just before she plummets into the gorge. 
One troll catches Rool but can't then get his claw out of the trunk.  The brownies finally excape.  The tree burns and breaks, dangling over the gorge by its roots. A troll howls as he falls to his death.  The other scrambles up the tree and grabs Willow's foot. Willow's boot slips off and down goes the second troll. 
Flames lick at Willow as he at last hauls himself to safety, just as the roots snap and the blazing tree goes crashing down in the gorge. 
WILLOW This is not going well. 
TEEMO Hurry!  Queen Cherlindrea will know what to do. 
Willow bundles the baby and follows the brownies into the forest.  Hobbling slightly on his bootless foot. 
EXT. MAJESTIC FOREST - SUNSET 
Fading sunlight bleeds through awesomely beautiful trees as Willow and the brownies trek into the magical Fairy Kingdom.  Elora Danan falls into a peaceful sleep. 
EXT. FAIRY KINGDOM - NIGHT 
Willow comes to a halt.  His mouth drops open.  The forest is a luminous Milky Way of dancing, flying FAIRIES, like fireflies.  The brownies tug at his pant-legs and whisper. 
TEEMO Come on.  This is a privilege.  No- body ever gets called before Her Majesty. 
Wonder-struck, Willow walks into a clearing where colorful night-flowers bloom.  He lowers himself onto an enormous toadstool, testing it with his hand.  Other BROWNIES stand watching, like courtiers.  The tiny fairies fly up to Willow's face and giggle:  they look like five-year-old girls, full of mischief and fun. 
Suddenly a strange LIGHT begins to throb behind the trees, peircing the forest with helter-skelter beams. Willow throws up his arms as the bright light stings his eyes. 
ROOL Stand up!  It's the queen! 
CHERLINDREA, the Fairy Queen, materializes out of frag- ments of moving light, diaphanous, sylph-like, beauti- ful. 
CHERLINDREA Willow Ufgood. 
The forest light grows brighter.  The queen looms over Willow and he again has to shield himself from the brightness. 
CHERLINDREA (sternly) I am very serious, Willow.  There is no time to lose. 
Now she intensifies her light so that Willow backs away, completely covering his face. 
WILLOW But I've got a family to think about!  They need me! 
The queen swirls around him like a solar wind, blowing the forest trees, scaring even the brownies.  And then all of a sudden:  silence.  And total darkness.  ALL WE SEE, in dim moonlight, is Willow's face, peeking out from between his fingers. 
WILLOW Hello...? 
The queen's voice echoes the forest. 
CHERLINDREA Bavmord'a powers are growing like an evil plague.  Soon she will con- trol the lives of you children, your wife, your village...everyone. 
Very gradually and beautifully the firey fairies begin to flicker, restoring light to the forest.  More light genlty brightens, bathing the woods, and the Fairy Queen reappears.  She is holding Elora Danan in her arms.  The brownies creep out from behind the trees. All eyes are upon Willow. 
CHERLINDREA The choice is yours. 
Willow takes the baby and looks at her for a moment. He struggles with his conscience.  The fairies and brownies wait in anticipation.  At last Willow looks up at them, resolved and determined. 
WILLOW I'll do it.  Yes, I will, I'll do it! 
The fairy kingdom sends up a great cheer and applause. Fairies giggle playfully around Willow's face, and brownies hug his ankles. 
WILLOW But I only have one shoe. 
EXT. WOODED HILL - DAY 
WE SEE Willow's feet as he walks along.  He has himself a brand-new shoe. 
Spirits high, he treks in the sunshine, papoose strapped to his back.  Teemo rides in his pocket, while Rool straddles the papoose, tickling the giggling baby. 
WILLOW Wait till I tell my children. Stuff like this never happens in my village. 
He digs a magic acorn out of his pocket and tosses it high in the air.  The brownies gasp. 
TEEMO Hey, careful there! 
WILLOW How do these work I wonder?  I got- ta save one to show the High Aldwin. 
ROOL Look!  Death below! 
Rool points through the trees.  Willow hurries down the hill to the tree-line.  In the valley below, 200 NOCK- MAAR SOLDIERS and CALVALRYMEN battle a hundred ragtag REBEL TROOPS.  From this sage position high on the hillside, Willow watches in disgust.  Weapons clash and men fall to their deaths. 
WILLOW Daikinis... 
They hear a CLANK behind them.  Willow slowly turns around.  There is movement in the trees.  The hillside woods are full of Nockmaar HORSEMEN moving right up next to him. 
In the valley, the oupowered rebels are being forced up the hill toward them.  Willow is suddenly standing under several large horses and black-armored minions. He is frozen in fear. 
HORSEMEN Hyaaaaahh!! 
Swords flash and the horseman charge!  The brownies jump and run for their lives.  Willow stumbles and spins as horse after horse thunders past him, nearly trampling him and the baby to death. 
The Nockmaar reinforcements descend upon the remaining rebels and crush them.  Willow falls and quickly digs the baby out of the papoose.  She is shrieking in ter- ror.  He holds her tight and runs along the tree-line, following the brownies, while the bloody battle rages below. 
WILLOW Let's get out of here.  Shhh, don't cry, Elora.  Things can't get any worse than this... 
EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAY 
Bleak rain dribbles down Willow's miserable face.  Pro- tecting the baby, he hurries toward a tavern.  The bot- tom of the building is an open stable with several horses.  Two burly IRON-WORKERS clank a red-hot wagon rim, fixing a nearby wagon hitched to a horse. 
It's a rough place.  Rool and Teemo peek out of Willow's pockets.  Upstairs PEOPLE drink and shout. 
TEEMO I'm not going in there. 
ROOL Me neither! 
WILLOW Don't worry--I'm a sorcerer.  What could possibly happen? 
Suddenly there's a CRASH up above and two PICTS burst through a balcony and land in the mud, fighting vi- ciously.  Rool and Teemo duck inside Willow's pockets. Willow steps around the Picts, dashes through the stable and up the stairs. 
INT. TAVERN - MAIN ROOM - DAY 
The place is packed with tattooed PICTS, nomadic FAMI- LIES, MOTHERS wit BABIES, THIEVES and CUTTHROATS. Willow enters with the crying baby. 
WILLOW Could you spare some milk for this poor hungry baby? 
Everyone looks up.  Mopping a table is an ugly BARMAID as big as a wrestler. 
Madmartigan throws open the door and dashes out.  But he doesn't get very far.  Several NOCKMAAR SOLDIERS push him back in.  Then they grab madmartigan and Wil- low, and Llug and his wife, and haul them all outside. 
INT. TAVERN - HALLWAY - DAY 
Madmartigan is slammed against a wall.  The Willow. Then Llug and his wife.  In the b.g. Nockmaar troops are rousting the tavern, taking babies away from frightened mothers and inspecting them. 
Heavy bootsteps thud toward them.  Willow looks out and recognizes Sorsha, the black-helmeted knight from the bridge. 
SORSHA You!  Are you the mother of that child? 
MADMARTIGAN No. (looks at Llug; in a high voice) I mean yes. 
Sorsha strides over to Madmartigan, her sword drawn. 
SORSHA Let me see it. 
Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha. 
MADMARTIGAN (high voice) I can't. 
SORSHA Let me see it. 
WILLOW No!  You can't! 
Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha. 
MADMARTIGAN (high voice) I can't. 
SORSHA Why not? 
MADMARTIGAN (to Willow) Why not? 
WILLOW Because she's sick. 
MADMARTIGAN (to Sorsha) Because she's sick. 
SORSHA Give it to me! 
Sorsha stabs her sword into the floor like a spike. She grabs for the baby.  Instinctively, Madmartigan el- bows her away, whacking her hard and knocking her off- balance against a nearby bench.  The soldiers tense up, pointing their swords and spears. 
Sorsha regains her balance.  She rips off her black helmet.  Long wild red hair tumbles over her shoulders. She is a young woman, and Madmartigan's eyes pop open. He does his best to keep up his femal facade. 
MADMARTIGAN (high voice) Gawd...you're...beautiful... 
SORSHA You're not a woman. 
Sorsha comes right up to Madmartigan, squinting into his eyes.  The she rips away his kerchief and muffler. 
LLUG Not a woman??!! 
All hell breaks loose.  Llug charges for Madmartigan's throat.  Madmartigna tucks the baby under his arm and dashes right out the window.  Llug bulldozes Sorsha and her Lieutenant, and the tavern patrons take advantage of the chaos and stampede for the stairs.  Willow dives out the window after Madmartigan. 
SORSHA After them!! 
She grabs her sword and waves it at her soldiers who clatter toward the stairs, flinging people out of their way. 
EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAY 
Madmartigna jumps off the upstairs balcony and lands in the wagon below.  The two iron-workers look up with concern.  Then they react with surprise as Madmartigan rips away his disguise. 
WILLOW Madmartigan!  Wait! 
Up above, Willow charges along the balcony.  Madmarti- gan juggles the baby and whips the reins.  The wagon pulls away, iron-workers scrambling after it.  Willow flings himself off the balcony.  The brownies tumble out of his pocket.  They all land in the back of the wagon as it takes off. 
It has stopped raining.  In the stable under the tavern, horses smash together and people fall in the mud, and the Nockmaar soldiers get tangled up in the traffic jam. 
EXT. ROAD - CHASE - DAY 
As Madmartigan lashes the horse, Willow crawls up to hum and takes the baby. 
WILLOW We could've been killed, Madmarti- gan! 
In the back, the brownies boucne all over the place amid wooden kegs and other objects.  When they finally get their balane they look back in alarm. 
Chasing them are two Nockmaar HORSEMEN plus a DEATH DOG and a war chariot. 
Willow ducks low and peeks out, protectively hugging the baby.  The wagon bounces and flies along, but the minions are quickly gaining.  Rool and Teemo spring into action.  They struggle with all their might and manage to kck small wooden kegs off the back of the wagon. 
The kegs bounce onto the road, and the minions lose some ground trying to avoid them.  But soon the horse- men flank the wagon.  One leaps off his galloping horse and climbs on board.  The other draws an arrow and gets ready to fire. 
Madmartigan is about to be shot between the eyes.  He quickly rolls into the back.  The archer firse! and hits the other minion in the chest.  Madmartigna snaps a wooden stake off the wagon side and smashes the wounded minion off the wagon:  he crashes onto the road. 
MADMARTIGAN Not a bad idea. 
Madmartigan terrorizes them with a flaming stick.  Then he squats beside Willow and the baby. 
MADMARTIGAN So you're on your way to Tir Asleen, huh?  I hate to tell you this, Willow, but Tir Asleen dosn't exist. 
WILLOW Yes it does.  The Fairy Queen told me. 
MADMARTIGAN The Fairy Queen?  And the baby here's a princess?  And these two rodents are your guides? 
He shakes his head sceptically, stretches out and puts his feet up on a log. 
MADMARTIGAN Yeah well...in the morning I think I'll be on my way. 
He laughs sarcastically.  Willow sets down the baby.  He takes off Kiaya's necklace and fingers it sadly. 
WILLOW Madmartigan, I need your help. 
MADMARTIGAN My help?  A great magician like you?  You don't need any help. 
Willow stares at him angrily. 
WILLOW But you're a great swordsman! 
He jumps and starts pacing around the fire.  Rool and Teemo dive for cover. 
WILLOW (explodes) You're not a warrior, Madmartigan! A warrior wouldn't lie there and do nothing! 
He kicks Madmartigan's boot and knocks his feet off the log. 
WILLOW We're in trouble!  You've seen the big army that's after us!  You're a fake!  You're a bum!  You're a-- you're a coward!! 
He picks up a rock and pitches it wildly at the fire, sending up a shower of sparks.  Madmartigan eyes him with concern. 
MADMARTIGAN What's with you, Peck? 
Willow lets it all pour out.  He begins to cry. 
WILLOW I miss my wife!  I miss my chil- dren!  My boy Ranon!  He's growing up so fast, he even helps me on the farm now!  And little Mims!  If you ever saw her sweet little face you'd *melt* Madmartigan, you'd *melt*! (sniffles) Or maybe you wouldn't.  You don't know anything about love.  You don't know anything about any- thing... 
Willow sits on the ground, exhausted.  Madmartigan picks up the baby and sits with her in his lap. 
MADMARTIGAN I was in love once, Willow.  She had a hold on my heart.  I could barely function. (a pause) I *was* a great swordsman!  I was knighted!  I could have been king! 
WILLOW You? 
MADMARTIGAN Yeah me.  King!  But she betrayed me.  She robbed me of my dream. 
Madmartigan gently rocks the baby and stares at the fire.  Willow watches him curiously. 
MADMARTIGAN I'll never fall in love again... 
EXT. WOODS - MORNING 
Willow wakes up and looks around.  The baby is gone. He panics.  He scrambles a short distance through some bushes. 
WILLOW Madmartigan!  Madmartigan! 
They've been camped all night near the shore of a LAKE. Willow finds Madmartigan and the baby bathing happily in the water. 
MADMARTIGAN Relax, Willow.  We're having fun. 
The baby squeals with delight as Madmartigan twirls her around.  He lifts her yp and carries her to Willow on the shore.  The brownies crawl thorugh the bushes. Rool points out at the lake. 
ROOL That's it!  The sorceress lives there! 
In the middle of the lake is an island with a single tree. 
TEEMO Are you sure? 
ROOL (excited) Yes!  Raziel!  She lives out on that island! 
Madmartigan lets out a sarcastic, sceptical laugh. Teemo scratches his head and squints out at the island. 
TEEMO That tree dosn't look like gold to me. 
MADMARTIGAN Gold!! 
Madmartigan rubs his chin with sudden interest. 
TEEMO Its branches are supposed to be made of gold, solid gold. 
Willow looks down at the browines questioninghly. 
WILLOW This can't be right.  This isn't a sorceress.  This is some kind of animal. 
TEEMO Queen Bavmorda transformed her. 
RAZIEL What do you want! 
WILLOW We need your help.  To take this baby to Tir Asleen.  She's a prin- cess. 
Still sceptical, Willow shows Raziel the baby's mark. Raziel shoots up onto a branch and frantically flicks her tail. 
RAZIEL Elora Danan! 
Madmartigan snaps a branch off the tree.  A flock of birds suddenly screech and fly away.  His eyes bulge. 
MADMARTIGAN Rool!  Teemo!  You were right! This whole tree is made of gold!! 
He strips away the bark, revealing a vein of gold. 
RAZIEL Fools!  You should never have come to this place!  We're all going to die! 
The wind begins to blow and the sky darkens.  Raziel zips over to Willow and whispers intensely. 
RAZIEL We've got to get off this island right now.  Hurry!  The boat!  It's our only chance! 
The wind howls.  they hurry down to the boat. 
WILLOW Madmartigan! 
Madmartigan is greedily breaking branches off the tree. 
MADMARTIGAN Wait!  Gold!  Gold! 
Waves lash at the boat as they jump aboard.  Madmarti- gan loads up with branches.  As they push off, he scrambles down the rocks.  Just in time he jumps into the boat as the storm swirls it out into the frothy lake. 
EXT. LAKE - DAY 
Willow clutches the baby as the raging storm pitches the boat. 
WILLOW Help, Madmartigan!  The oar! 
Madmartigan hangs onto his gold, but pices of it drop and topple overboard. 
MADMARTIGAN My gold! 
Suddenly a hand appears on the stern.  The water boy climbs in. 
RAZIEL Kill him! 
WILLOW No! 
RAZIEL Kill him! 
Madmartigna hesitates but then smashes the boy back into the lake.  The boy surfaces like a dolphin.  His shape begins to change, becoming fish-like, diving and vanishing. 
Then:  he attacks the boat!  He is now a ferocious shark-like monster.  He chomps the boat and the gold branches slide into the water.  Madmartigan bashes the monster with the oar, then grabs an anchor.  The mon- ster attacks again and Madmartigan jabs its gill with the anchor. 
The monster sinks into the lake.  They all sigh with relief.  Madmartigan shrugs proudly.  Suddenly the an- chor line unravels, tangling Madmartigan's legs in fishing nets and yanking him overboard. 
Underwater, Madmartigan swirls behind the monster.  He pulls himself along the anchor line and finally cuts himself free with his dagger. 
He surfaces and madly swims toward the pitching boat. Willow reaches out to him.  The monster surfaces and circles the boat.  Then it attacks Madmartigan. 
MADMARTIGAN No!!  Help!!  Willow!!! 
Willow digs out a magic acorn.  But he drops it!  He fumbles in the leaking boat and finally finds it.  The monster opens its jaws and goes to devour Madmartigan. Willow throws the acorn. 
The monster miraculously turns to stone.  Madmartigan grabs the boat and watches in amazement as the monster sinks.  Willow hauls him into the boat. 
EXT. LAKESHORE - DAY 
The storm begins to die down as they jump to shore, ex- hausted.  Madmartigan wears nothing now but a ragged loincloth.  He falls to his knees, coughing and spit- ting. 
MADMARTIGAN Willow...you...you got...magic...! Wait...we could team up...! 
He pulls himself up and follows Willow.  Suddenly they all stop.  Sorsha and her men come out of the woods. 
RAZIEL Flee!  Flee! 
The brownies scurry into a hole.  Raziel makes a dash for it but a soldier skewers her tail with his spear, dangling her in front of Sorsha. 
Sorsha rides up from the rear of the caravan, carrying the baby, who is crying.  Madmartigan, with Willow still on his shoulders, straightens up and flirts with her. 
MADMARTIGAN Nice horse...nice hair...real nice hair...I'd say you've got the most beautiful hair I've ever-- 
She flashes her eyes at him. 
SORSHA Wolff wants to boil you in oil. 
She nods toward her Lieutenant, who snarls viciously. 
SORSHA Don't tempt me. 
She turns away.  The baby squirms and cries. 
WILLOW If you rest the baby on your shoulder, she'll stop crying. 
SORSHA Shut up. 
Sorsha rides along.  She shifts the baby to her other shoulder, and she instantly stops crying.  Sorsha throws a look at Willow.  Madmartigan takes a long deep breath. 
MADMARTIGAN Mmmm, I love the smell of a woman. 
SORSHA (angry threat) My step-father's going to tear you apart. 
Madmartigan pounds his chest and taunts her: 
MADMARTIGAN I'm torn apart already.  I mean it! Under all that armor is a beautiful-- 
CRACK!  Sorsha whips her horse and gallops ahead. 
MADMARTIGAN Who is that girl, anyway? 
RAZIEL Sorsha, Queen Bavmorda's daughter. 
Madmartigan snaps his finger and discourages himself. 
MADMARTIGAN Forget that one, Madmartigan. 
Raziel leaps against the bars of her cage, chatters her teeth and whispers to Willow. 
RAZIEL Willow.  To learn magic, first you must make your own philosopher's stone! 
WILLOW What do I need for that? 
RAZIEL We must start with feathers, dung, and a lock of your hair. 
Willow pulls a strand of his hair out in front of his eyes and frowns at it.  Madmartigan, meanwhile, can't take his eyes off Sorsha. 
MADMARTIGAN Now that's a woman...! 
EXT. NOCKMAAR CAMPSITE - NIGHT 
Fires and torches burn around pitched tents.  Soldiers eat and drink, and meat is thrown out to Death Dogs. From her cage, Raziel looks down at Willow, still chained to the wagon next to Madmartigan.  Willow is grinding a substance with a rock. 
RAZIEL Keep working at it.  Forget all you know, or think you know.  A magician's power depends on disord- er of the mind. 
She twists her head through the bars.  Madmartigan squints up at her. 
MADMARTIGAN You got that one covered. 
Willow hears the baby crying in a distant tent. 
WILLOW I hope she's all right.  How much more do I have to do of this? 
RAZIEL Till it's in a powder.  The energy exits within you... 
WILLOW (reciting) I know, and the magician's goal is to find his true self.  But what's this got to do with it? 
RAZIEL As below, so above.  You hold the univers, Willow, in your hand. 
Madmartigan clasps his forhead. 
MADMARTIGAN I'm beginning to think you two *deserve* to be locked up. 
WILLOW The universe is a living creature, like you and me, Madmartigan. 
Madmartigan cynically gazes at the sky, gesturing wide- ly. 
MADMARTIGAN We're a tiny version of all that? 
RAZIEL As above, so below. 
RAZIEL Good!  The first step is complete. 
Chained behind the wagon, Madmartigan reaches forward and pokes Willow with his finger? 
MADMARTIGAN Did she ask about me? 
WILLOW Who? 
MADMARTIGAN Come on, Peck, don't give me a hard time.  You were in her ten all night.  Did she say anything? 
Willow deliberately plays innocent. 
WILLOW She said lots of thing.s 
MADMARTIGAN Willow! 
Willow grins.  At last: 
WILLOW She asked about you, Madmartigan. 
MADMARTIGAN Well what did she say? 
Suddenly Sorsha gallops by on horseback, holding the baby.  She flings a wad of clothes at Madmartigan. 
SORSHA Here.  You're going to need these where we're going. 
She rides off.  Madmartigan looks down at the clothes. The looks at Willow. 
MADMARTIGAN She's in love. 
WILLOW You're crazy.  I think you're in love. 
EXT. SNOW MOUNTAIN - DAY 
The Nockmaar caravan climbs into snow-covered moun- tains.  In the wagon, Raziel is grilling Willow.  He concentrates hard, cramming, memorizing, straining. 
RAZIEL We don't have much time left!  Go on!  Go on! 
WILLOW I must concetrate my imagination...to creat a new...reality! 
RAZIEL What's the magician's weapon? 
WILLOW The limitless power of... 
Raziel flips around in spasms of impatience. 
RAZIEL Your will!  Your will!  What else could it be? 
WILLOW (frustrated) I can't remember all these things. What am I learning? 
RAZIEL The art of transformation! 
WILLOW (exasperated) But what am I gonna transform?? 
RAZIEL Me! 
Willow and Madmartigan stare at Raziel. 
WILLOW You? 
MADMARTIGAN What are you gonna become, Raziel? Queen of the rodents? 
Sorsha rides up to the wagon. 
SORSHA The baby's cold.  Take her. 
She dismounts.  With care, keeping the baby bundled, she hands the baby to Willow.  Madmartigan watches and listens. 
RAZIEL You remind me of your father, Sor- sha. 
SORSHA My father was a weakling. 
RAZIEL He was a great king. (Madmartigan reacts) Not like your step-father, not like your mother.  He ruled Tir Asleen with kindness, and a generous heart. 
SORSHA My mother calls that weakness. 
MADMARTIGAN What do *you* call it? 
Sorsha turns and glares at Madmartigan. 
SORSHA I do what I'm told. 
It starts to work.  Raziel curls into a ball of fur. The fur changes to feathers.  She begins to squawk strangely.  She emerges as a raven-sized bird. 
WILLOW What did I do? 
He sags with exhaustion and massages his blistered hands.  Then: CLINK!  The lock falls open.  They all look over, and Madmartigan picks it up off the ground. 
MADMARTIGAN Not bad, Peck.  I'm impressed.  You busted the lock. 
Wilow clutches Madmartigan's arm.  He holds up the stone. 
WILLOW Madmartigan.  Let's go.  Let's get Eloran Danan. 
With coldness in his eyes, madmartigan stares across the camp at Sorsha's tent. 
MADMARTIGAN Let's get Elora Danan. 
They sneak away. 
RAZIEL Wait!  What about me! 
Raziel flaps her wings and flies up into the dark sky. 
EXT. THROUGH THE CAMP - DAWN 
Willow and Madmartigan sneak behind tents, hiding from the patrolling guards.  Very quietly they creep up to Kael's tent.  Madmartigan knocks out a guard and steals his knife.  They crawl dangerously over to Sorsha's tent. 
MADMARTIGAN You're a magician, Willow.  But I'm a thief.  Wait here.  I'll get the baby. 
Madmartigan slits the back of the tent open and slips inside.  Raziel flutters down and lands on Willow's shoulder. 
RAZIEL I'm supposed to be a beautiful wo= man. 
Willow shrugs apologetically. 
INT. SORSHA'S TENT - DAWN 
Crouched inside the large tent, Madmartigan calculates his next move.  In the far corner, Sorsha lies asleep. He steals the baby from a crib of straw.  Starts to leave.  But stops.  Willow pokes his head inside. 
WILLOW (whispers) Come on, Madmartigan...! 
Madmartigan stares over at Sorsha.  Lured by her beau- ty, he slowly walks toward her bed. 
WILLOW What are you doing?  Get out of there...! 
Madmartigan looks down at her.  Morning rushlight il- luminates her youthful face, and her long red hair is spread across her pillow.  Out of her armor, in soft nightclothes, she looks like a goddess.  Upon her breast is a golden necklet, inlaid with ornate jewels. Quietly: 
MADMARTIGAN I love you. 
He kisses her lips.  Her eyes open. 
SORSHA One move, and you really will be a woman. 
Holding the baby, Madmartigan does not move a muscle. Sorsha holds a knife at his crotch. 
SORSHA You're a fool.  Now put her back. 
MADMARTIGAN I'm not going to let this baby die. 
Sorsha presses the knife. 
SORSHA Don't make me kill you. 
Willow watches as Madmartigna carefully backs away from Sorsha. 
MADMARTIGAN I believe you would... 
Sitting up, Sorsha waves her knife.  Madmartigan places the baby in the straw crib. 
SORSHA Why did you say that? 
MADMARTIGAN Say what? 
SORSHA I love you. 
Madmartigan walks back to Sorsha' bed.  Willow crawls into the tent, behind Madmartigan's back. 
MADMARTIGAN Because it's true. 
SORSHA I don't believe you. 
Sorsha defensively kneels on her bed as Madmartigan walks toward her.  He shows no fear of her knife, com- pelled instead by honest passion.  For once, he isn't conning anybody.  His feelings are genuine. 
Raziel flies down and lands on top of the snowball, flapping her wings frantically.  madmartigan crawls out as the villagers rush up.  They stand back in amaze- ment:  the baby starts crying. 
MADMARTIGAN Willow!  Willow!  Are you all right? 
Madmartigan drags Willow and the baby out of the snow. Willow's body is limp, he's unconscious.  Then a VIL- LAGER points up at the mountain. 
VILLAGER King Kael! 
ANOTHER VILLAGER Nockmaar troops! 
MADMARTIGAN (to villagers) Help us. 
In the distance Kael and his squad of about 15 horsemen charge toward the village.  The villagers flee into their huts and houses.  Madmartigan scoops up Willow and the baby.  Some villagers usher them around a corner and into a house just as Kael's army invades the town. 
INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAY 
Madmartigan is bustled underground thorugh a cellar into a hidden storage room and a disguised door shuts behind him.  MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN huddle here in silence, like refugees or criminals.  Madmartigan hands the crying baby to a WOMAN then lays Willow on the floor.  Suddenly a huge hand clamps his shoulder:  his old friend and rival Airk Thaughbaer. 
AIRK Madmartigan.  Settled down with a family huh? 
Madmartigan knocks Airk's hand away. 
MADMARTIGAN You left me to die, friend. 
AIRK You managed alright. 
MADMARTIGAN Is this what's left of your army? 
Among the refugees is a handful of war-battered WARRI- ORS.  One of them, an OFFICER looks out through the ceiling beams. 
OFFICER Keep that baby quiet. 
They hear hoofbeats outside.  Airk gives Madmartigan a flask of whiskey.  He squirts whiskey into Willow's mouth and Willow coughs and shudders awake. 
EXT. VILLAGE - DAY 
Raziel flies onto a rooftop and looks down.  Nockmaar soldiers flood the village, dismounting, kicking down doors, searching houses.  Then Raziel sees Kael riding alongside Sorsha. 
In her armor, at a distance, Sorsha looks fierce.  But CLOSER her eyes show confusion, hesitation.  Kael watches her closely as he waves his sword at the vil- lage. 
KAEL Where is it!  Tell us or we'll burn your village!  Sorsha! 
He shakes her roughly.  She dismounts.  Raziel watches as Sorsha and two other soldiers enter the house where Madmartigan and Willow are hiding. 
INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAY 
Willow holds the baby tight.  Madmartigan, Airk and the Officer watch through the cracks.  Boots pound above, shaking dust down on them.  A door opens. 
Nobody breathes.  Willow buries the baby in his chest. Madmartigan peeks through the door.  Sorsha, alone, comes down into the cellar.  They see her.  Searching. Airk's men reach for their swords, begin to draw. Whisper: 
OFFICER Kill her. 
Madmartigam shakes his head. 
MADMARTIGAN You'll draw the others. 
Airk looks at Madmartigan curiously.  Madmartigan watches Sorsha. She is right there, inches away. Inaudibly, be says her name.  At last she goes back upstairs. 
INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAY 
Sorsha comes up and begins to leave with the other two soldiers. 
INT. CELLAR 
In Willow's arms, the baby lets out a cry. 
INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS 
Sorsha and the soldiers stop and draw swords.  The baby's cry is suddenly drowned out by a loud SDRRECH. Raziel flaps in through a window and flies madly around the house, cawing and shrieking insanely.  Sorsha and the soldiers sheathe their swords and leave. 
INT. CELLAR 
Everyone sighs with relief. 
EXT. VILLAGE - DAY 
In the distance the Nockmaar army is setting houses ab- laze and Kael is terrorizing the fleeing people with his sword.  Sorsha mounts her horse.  Her attention is momemtarily caught by a MAN across the street who, from the back, looks like Madmartigan.  She gasps.  The man turns around.  She sags with disappointment, spurs her horse, and rides off. 
The deadly squad of Nockmaar horsemen gallops out of the village. 
INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAY 
Willow swallows hard.  He and Madmartigan follow Raziel inside. 
INT. CAVE OF THE EBORSISK - DAY 
Daylight is soon replaced by the orange glow of molten lava. 
WILLOW Madmartigan!  I can't stand being in closed-in places. 
MADMARTIGAN Want me to carry Elora? 
WILLOW I'm used to her.  How's she doing? 
Willow wears the papoose on his back.  Madmartigan looks in at the baby's face. 
MADMARTIGAN She's doing a lot better than we are, Peck. 
Willow and Madmartigan laugh, which breaks the tension. Then a geiser of steam hisses near them and a bat screeches somewhere and the tension's back.  They keep going. 
INT. DEEPER IN THE CAVE 
Hot liquid drips from the ceiling.  Hissing steam bub- bles from the floor.  they go single-file along a ledge over a foaming lava pit.  Raziel is squawking way ahead in the distance. 
MADMARTIGAN Willow...this may be a bad time to ask this question but...what if Raziel's wrong? 
WILLOW She can't be wrong.  She's a very very very powerful sorceress. 
MADMARTIGAN She's a bird, Willow. 
WILLOW That's my fault, not hers.  I've got to keep practicing.  I'm still in the learning stage but magic, Madmartigan, requires concentration and-- 
MADMARTIGAN Watch it! 
WILLOW Ahhh! 
Madmartigan lunges and grabs Willow just as he is about to fall into the lava pit.  He hauls him to safety. They gasp with relief. Then they head deeper into the cave.  They stop.  They hear something.  Something strange. 
Then, something moves on the wall. 
WILLOW I hate this. 
The cave walls come to life.  Down them crawl ugly ROCK PUFFERS, pillow-sized wall crabs that screech horribly like bats.  Madmartigan fights them off with his sword. The Rock Puffers bloat themselves up, tripling their size.  Madmartigan stabs one and it hisses away like an untied balloon. 
Suddenly, distant hoofbeats thunder and echo.  Madmar- tigan flashes his sword and turns around, ready to de- fend Willow and the baby against the army. 
MADMARTIGAN Go, Willow!  Run!  Run! 
Willow listens as the hoofbeats get louder and louder. At last he turns and runs deeper into the cave.  Mad- martigan waits. 
The Nockmaar soldiers, now increased to eighty, come charging down the cave.  Kael rides in the lead along- side the turncoat Cuth.  As they gallop along the ledge, Cuth makes the mistake of crowding Kael, who an- grily elbos him, horse and all, into the boiling pit. 
The army tramples over the Rock Puffers, which explode underfoot.  Madmartigan braces himself as they stampede toward him.  But suddenly the horseman all screech thir horses to a halt.  The horses rear and back away. 
Madmartigan stands there, wondering.  Then suddenly a shadow looms behind him.  He turns. 
The EBORSISK roars and the cave shakes and thunders. It's an enormous two-headed monster that doesn't like visitors. 
MADMARTIGAN Willow!  Willow! 
He looks around frantically.  Willow is nowhere to be seen.  Then the baby cries out.  Madmartigan sees them, cowering behind a rock.  He runs toward them.  The Eborsisk exhales flames over his head. 
KAEL Go after them! 
Soldiers obey Kael and go after Madmartigan.  He fights them, hacking down a few, while a few others are in- cinerated by the Eborsisk.  Sorsha's horse rears as she watches Madmartigan battle for his life.  Archers shoot arrows, which pierce the Eborsisk and make it even an- grier. 
Willow digs one of his magic acorns out of his pocket. A head of the Eborsisk gnashes at Madmartigan.  Madmar- tigan looks to Willow for help. 
MADMARTIGAN Hurry, Willow!  Throw it! 
Willow winds up and throws with all his might.  The Eborsisk blasts a flame, which startles Willow, wreck- ing his aim.  Madmartigan's eyes pop open and he ducks as the acorn whistles by his ear.  The acorn bounces off a rock and flies back, trickles along the ground and hits a Nockmaar soldier, who is already dead.  The soldier's body turns to stone. 
RAZIEL Look out! 
One of the Eborsisk's heads lunges toward the baby. Raziel dives like a rocket and attacks the monster's eye as Willow whisks the baby away. 
Then Madmartigan leaps up on the Eborsisk.  He climbs up over its flaming head and drives his sword down through its skull.  The Eborsisk howls horribly and its wounded head falls.  Madmartigan topples down its back and leaps onto a horse, knocking its rider off and, all in one swashbuckling move, scooping Willow and the baby up onto the back of the horse and galloping away. 
KAEL After them!! 
But as his horsement charge forward, the Eborsisk falls to its knees, half-dead.  The surviving head blasts the soldiers with fire.  They rear back on their horses and continue to battle the monster with arrows and spears. 
EXT. CAVE - TIR ASLEEN - DAY 
INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARD 
The knights light a fire and boil vats of oil.  Willow struggles to transform Raziel, trying to remember all he has learned. 
WILLOW Capture the enery...limitless power of the will...avvdachh doth indicht rredd baerkinhaekin! 
Raziel begins to change.  From a bird, she expands, stretches, and turns into a GOAT. 
WILLOW Raziel?  Is that you?  Oh-oh.  What happened? 
Raziel tilts her goat head. 
RAZIEL I hate this. 
Suddenly flaming arrows rain down over the castle wall. Willow scoops up the baby and he and Raziel run for cover. 
EXT. TIR ASLEEN 
From their horses Kael and Sorsha watch as the soldiers climb the wall.  They suddenly hear a hacking noise above and several Nockmaar men tumble down the ladders. Sorsha looks up. 
High on the wall stands Madmartigan, magnificently dressed in the glimmering armor of the King! 
Kael roars and points his deadly sword up at Madmarti- gan.  Then several soldiers attack the castle door with a huge battering ram and smash it open. 
KAEL Attack!! 
Kael and Sorsha gallop into the castle with otehr Nock- maar horsemen, while Madmartigan continues to battle attackers on the castle wall. 
INT. TIR ASLEEN 
Willow looks up as the horsemen charge into the court- yeard.  He makes a run for the hallway.  SIX HORSEMEN chase after him, jumping off their horses and drawing their swords. 
Sorsha dismounts, draws a sword, and strides up the stairs toward teh top of the wall. 
INT. ARMORY 
Willow runs into the armory and sets the baby down in a corner.  The six horsement run in and corner him.  He grabs an enormous broadsword.  Swings it like a base- ball bat.  The momentum of the heavy sword hurls Willow across the room.  The blade pierces a Nockmaar man. Willow grunts and yanks the sword out.  The remaining soldiers come after him.  Willow swings and flashes the sword as they close in on him. 
EXT. TIR ASLEEN 
In the courtyard, Raziel the goat butts a few soldiers as the battle rages. 
UP ON THE WALL 
Madmartigan stabs a minion and sends him hurtlin down the wall.  Then he turns around.  Five more enemy swordsmen slash at him.  Madmartigan is amazing:  spin- nig, lunging, ducking, he takes out one, two, three, four of them with ease.  But not the fifth. 
It's the Nockmaar Lieutenant.  He and Madmartigan swordfight.  The Lieutenant hacks the sword out of Madmartigan's hand: it clatters down into the court- yeard. 
Madmartigan throws up his arm.  The Lieutenant's sword clangs against his wrist armor, knocking Madmartigan onto his back.  With two hands the Lieutenant lifts his sword high and goes to kill Madmartigan.  madmartigan shuts his eyes.  But nothing happens. 
Madmartigan opens his eyes.  the Lieutenant stands there, frozen, staring at him.  Then falls forward. Rolls over Madmartigan.  And plummets off teh wall.  In his place stands Sorsha, holding a bloodied sword. 
MADMARTIGAN Sorsha. 
SORSHA Madmartigan. 
He props himself up on his elbows and smiles. 
MADMARTIGAN Whose side are you on? 
She reaches down and pulls Madmartigan to his feet. 
SORSHA Yours. 
They look into each other's eyes.  They go to embrace. 
MINION Arrrggghhh! 
Out of nowhere a Nockmaar minion attacks them, his sword flashing over his head. Sorhsa hardly moves. She simply dusts him off the wall with her sword.  She turns back to Madmartigan. 
SORSHA I love you. 
Their armor clanks as they throw their arms around each other and kiss, high up on the castle wall. 
INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARD 
Kael looks up from his horse. 
KAEL Sorsha!! 
He sees Sorsha and Madmartigan coming down the wall, fighting Nockmaar troops.  Kael holds up his great hand.  In it he holds the baby. 
The army dismounts and begins to unpack supplies.  It is late in the day and shadows lengthen toward evening. 
INT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - LATE AFTERNOON 
Kael carries the baby through the castle and climbs up the gloomy narrowing stairs of the QUEEN'S TOWER.  He comes to a large door and hesitates a moment, showing fear.  Then creaks the door open. 
INT. QUEEN'T TOWER 
BAVMORDA looks up.  Kael cowers, afraid of her evil power. 
BAVMORDA Kael! 
Carved in the floor is a MAGICIAN's CIRCLE, and in the very middle of this is a sacrificial altar made of shining copper.  Bavmorda stands over the altar, wear- ing black robes.  Behind her stand two decrepit DRUIDS. Kael bows. 
KAEL Queen Bavmorda.  I have the child. 
The baby squirms and cries.  Seething with hate, Bav- morda reaches out her arms, then shrinks back. 
BAVMORDA We must start the ritual! 
She hears noise outside the castle. 
BAVMORDA Who is that? 
KAEL An army of rebels and traitors. 
Bavmorda closes her eyes, holds out her hands and feels the vibrations and energy around her.  Psychically: 
BAVMORDA Where is Sorsha? 
KAEL She has turned against you. 
Bavmorda opens her eyes furiously.  to her druids: 
BAVMORDA Purify the altar!  Arrange the im- plements!  I'll deal with Sorsha! 
The druids take the baby from Kael.  Bavmorda storms out the door. 
EXT. NOCKMAAR CASLTE - DUSK 
The Tir Asleen rebels pitch tents and build fires. Then they feel a terrible presence and look up at the castle wall.  Amid torches and hideous minions, Bavmor- da leers down at them and laughs. 
BAVMORDA This is not an army! 
Sorsha looks up, and her mother seems to laugh right at her.  Madmartigan steps forward.  Seeing him in the ar- mor of the King, Bavmorda stops laughing, taken aback. 
RAZIEL Willow!  Get out of here!  Quick! Hide! 
Raziel suddenly butts Willow into a tent. 
INT. TENT 
Willlow tumbles into the tent and Raziel follows him. 
RAZIEL Get down!  The ritual chant! Quick!  Protect yourself! 
WILLOW Why? 
RAZIEL Just do it! 
Willow takes out his philosopher's stone and begins to chant. 
EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE 
Madmartigan faces the queen. 
MADMARTIGAN We've come for Elora Danan!  Turn her over to us! 
Bavmorda stabs her finger down at him. 
BAVMORDA You dare to challenge me?  You are not warriors.  You're pigs! 
She waves her hand, casting a horrible spell over the army.  Madmartigan's body begins to change its shape. His armor breaks apart.  He grows hideous. 
BAVMORDA You're all pigs! 
The rebel soldiers panic and run.  Slowly, horribly, they all expand and contort, ripping out of their armor and clothers, casting down their weapons and shields. 
SORSHA Mother!  No!! 
BAVMORDA You made your decision! 
Lightning explodes overhead.  Sorsha lunges for the baby.  But Bavmorda stops her with a powerful energy force. 
SORSHA No!! 
Pulsating light lifts Sorsha, levitates her across the room, and drives her toward a wall of spikes.  Just as she is about to be implaes, another force stops her. Bavmorda can sense the source of it: 
BAVMORDA Raziel...!! 
The door flies open.  The twelve burning candles all blow out.  There stands Raziel.  Sorsha falls to the floor, unconscious.  Raziel raises her arms magnifi- cently.  The sorceresses face each other. 
INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY 
Battle rages.  Madmartigan and Airk lead the assault, and the Tir Asleen rebels push back the Nockmaar min- ions.  Down low, where weapons adn bodies fall and horses clop and stamp, the brownies scurry along in terror, arms crossed over their heads, looking for shelter. 
Like mice, they dart up some stairs.  Then a huge boot nearly crushes them.  The dive away and look up. Towering high above them, Kael lets out a loud warcry. And brandishes two weapons, a huge sword and a huge axe. 
Madmartigan and Airk turn and see Kael.  They look at each other.  Like samurai warriors they stand ready. Kael ralles his weapons and charges toward them. 
INT. TOWER STAIRWAY - DAY 
Willow creeps toward the door.  It suddenly throbs and flashes.  He jumps back. 
INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY 
Bavmorda and Raziel oppose each otehr, circling the al- tar.  The air between them crackles and sparks with the concentration of energy between them. 
RAZIEL The baby will be queen.  It has been foretold, Bavmorda. 
BAVMORDA My ritual will kill the prophecy! Now the child dies with it, its en- ergy exiled into oblivion! (lightning flashes) You see?  I hold the power of the universe! 
RAZIEL Not until your ritual is complete! 
BAVMORDA And who will stop me?  The elements are slaves to my command! 
She points at the sky.  As if oberying her, lightning flashes and thunder cracks. 
RAZIEL There is no one who can match your sorcery.  Except me! 
Raziel waves her arms and light suddenly swirls around the room.  Bavmorda counters, and chairs come to life, turning into beasts.  Objects fly about.  The tower be- comes a storm of chaos and witchcraft. 
INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY 
Kael swings his axe and sword at Airk and Madmartigan. He roars at his army, and six Nockmaar swordsmen hurry over to fight with him.  Madmartigan and Airk split up. Madmartigan battles the six swordsmen.  Airk battles Kael, who backs Airk up stairs on the castle wall. 
Madmartigan fights in the courtyard.  He hears a yell and looks up.  Kael strikes Airk down. 
MADMARTIGAN Airk!! 
Airk falls down the stairs.  Madmartigan finishes off the swordsmen, then runs to him, grabs his bleeding body. 
MADMARTIGAN Airk!  Airk! 
MADMARTIGAN Madmartigan...you're a brave warrior...a true friend...a good man... 
MADMARTIGAN We're gonna win this war, Airk. 
An incredible smile lights up Airk's face as he dies. Madmartigan stands.  Picks up his sword.  And goes up the stairs after Kael. 
INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY 
The sorceress continue their battle.  They change each other into various beasts.  They fight, physically and magically. 
In the midst of chaos, the door opens.  Willow pokes in his head, reacting in fear.  Then sneaks around the wall of the room and makes a dash for the baby. 
BAVMORDA As above, so below!  Universe of evil, Raziel!  It conquers even you! 
Bavmorda hurls a final spell at Raziel, crippling her, throwing her into a corner.  Bavmorda laughs and goes to the altar.  The baby is gone. 
Willow races toward the door with the baby.  The door suddenly slams shut.  Bavmorda's voice roars out: 
BAVMORDA *Stop!  Bring back that child!!!* 
Willow stops.  He turns around.  Bavmorda towers over him, grotesque, monstrous, poised to destroy Willow with her magic. 
BAVMORDA Who are you? 
WILLOW I'm Willow Ufgood.  I'm a magician. 
Bavmorda laughs.  Willopw slowly walks toward her.  he digs into his pocket.  Takes out the last magic acorn. 
WILLOW I'm a *great* magician. 
