Withnail and I 
Withnail and I 
Camden Town, London. 1969 
The Flat. 
[A few shafts of sunlight sneak through the curtains and illuminate a sitting room. There are empty bottles everywhere. 'I', who is smoking a joint, gets up somewhat precariously and walks into a kitchen which is full of bottles and dirty washing up. He lights the gas on the stove and puts on the kettle.] 
The Cafe 
['I' is reading a paper at a table in the cafe. The proprietor is cooking eggs in a frying pan full of grease. She takes one out, inserts it between two slices of bread and places it in front of an elderly woman who inspects it doubtfully and bites into the sandwhich. Yolk runs out of the other edge. 'I' turns his attention to his paper. The story is about a transexual, the headline 'Love made up my mind, I had to become a woman'. He looks around at the other customers.] 
I [mentally]: Thirteen million Londoners have to cope with this, and bake beans and allbran and rape, and I'm sitting in this bloody shack and I can't cope with Withnail. I must be out of my mind. I must go home at once and discuss his problems in depth. 
The Flat 
[I stumbles up the barely lit stairs looking unwell. Withnail emerges from his room holding a bottle and glass and follows him.] 
[Withnail stands infront of a mirror and brushes his long, greasy hair with a comb. I sits on the settee and starts drinking the coffee from the bowl using a spoon.] 
Withnail: Imagine the size of his balls. Imagine getting into a fight with the fucker! I: Please! I don't feel good. Withnail: That's what you'd say but that wouldn't wash with Geoff. No! He'd like a bit of pleading. Add spice to it. In fact, he'd probably tell you what he was going to do before he did it. "I'm going to pull you head off". "Oh no, please, don't pull my head off". "I'm going to pull your head off because I don't like your head!" 
[he notives I drinking from the bowl.] 
Withnail: Have you got soup? Why didn't I get any soup? I: Coffee Withnail: Why don't you use a cup like any other human being? I: Why don't you wash up occasionally like any other human being? Withnail: How dare you!? How dare you!? How dare you call me inhumane!? I: I didn't call you inhumane, you merely imagined it. Calm down. Withnail: Right you fucker - I'm going to do the washing up! 
[He strides towards the kitchen. I jumps over the arm of the settee and stops him.] 
[He rumages about in a drawer.] 
Withnail: Here, get it with the pliers! I: No, no, no, no, no, no. Give me the gloves. Withnail: That's right, put on the gloves. Don't attempt anything without the gloves. 
[I starts to move things about in the sink rather gingerly.] 
Withnail: What is it? What have you found? I: Matter. Withnail: Matter? Where's it coming from? I: Don't look. Don't look. I'm dealing with it! Withnail: I think we've been in here too long. I feel unusual. I think we should go outside. 
The Park 
Withnail: Jesus, look at that. Apart from a raw potato that's the only solid to have passed my lips in the last sixty hours. I must be ill. 
The Flat 
[I is writting in a notebook on the settee while Withnail wonders round wearing his overcoat and his underpants, smearing himself with deep heat.] 
I [mentally]: Even a stopped clock tells the right time twice a day. And for once I'm inclined to believe Withnail is right; we are indeed drifting into the arena of the unwell. Making an enemy of our own future. What we need is harmony. Fresh air. Stuff like that. Withnail: Wasn't much in the tube. there's nothing left for you. I: Why don't you ask your father for some money. If we had some money we could go away. Withnail [inspecting a bottle for dregs]: Why don't you ask your father. How can it be so cold in here. It's like Greenland in here. We've got to get some booze. It's the only solution to this intense cold. Something's got to be done. We can't go on like this. I'm a trained actor reduced to the status of a bum. I mean look at us! Nothing that reasonable members of society demand as their rights! No fridges, no televisions, no phones. Much more of this and I'm going to apply for meals on wheels. I: What happened to your cigar commercial? Withnail: That's what I want to know. what happened to my cigar commercial. What happened to my agent? Bastard must have died. I: September. Bad patch. Withnail: Rubbish. Haven't seen Gylgod down the labour exchange. Why doesn't he retire. 
[He picks up a paper.] 
[He pours the contents of the bottle into his upturned mouth.] 
Withnail: Ah. Ah. Have you got anymore? 
[I shakes his head. Withnail presses forwards and I backs off.] 
Withnail: Liar, what's in your toolbox? I: No we have nothing. Sit down! Withnail: Liar, you've got antifreeze. I: You bloody fool. You should never mix your drinks! [Withnail laughs histerically, collapses to the floor and emits unpleasant vomitting noises.] 
The Street 
I: Ugh. What about what-his-name? Withnail: What about him? I: Why don't you give him a call. Withnail: What for? I: Ask him about his house. Withnail: You want me to call what-his-name and ask him about his house? I: Why not? Withnail: Alright. what's his number? I: I've no idea - I've never met him. Withnail: Well neither have I. What the fuck are you talking about? I: Your relative with a house in the country. Withnail: Monty? Uncle Monty? I: That's him. That's the one. Get the Jag fixed up. Spend the weekend in the country. Withnail: Alright. Give us a tenner and I'll give him a bell. I: Get a couple more in. I'm going for a slash. [Next to the door to the gents is a rather large Irish man sat with his pint and his paper.] 
Big Irish man: Ponce [I ignores him and goes into the gents.] 
I [to himself]: I could hardly piss straight with fear. he was a man with 3/4 of an inch of brain who'd taken a dislike to me. What had I done to offend him? I don't consciously offend big men like this. And this one's a decided imbalance of hormone in him. Get any more masculine than that and you'd have to live up a tree. [he reads the grafitti] 'I fuck arses', Who fucks arses? [aloud] Maybe he fucks arses. [to himself again] Maybe he's written this in some moment of drunken sincerity. I'm in considerable danger in here. I must get out of here at once. [He walks back into the bar.] 
Big Irish man: Perfumed ponce! [Withnail is still at the bar. He has made considerable progress with his cider and is eating some snack.] 
Withnail: You'll be pleased to hear Monte's invited us for drinks. I: Balls to Monty we're getting out. Withnail: Balls to Monty!? I've just spent an hour flattering the bugger. I: There's a man over there doesn't like the perfume. The big one. Don't look, don't look. We're in danger, we've got to get out. Withnail: What are you talking about? I: I've been called a ponce. [Withnail turns to address the room in general.] 
[They push past the man and rush to the door.] 
Withnail: Ahhhh, out of my way. 
The Bathroom 
[I is in the bath shaving.] 
I: Speed is like a dozen transatlantic flights without ever getting off the plane. Timechange. You lose, you gain. Makes no difference so long as you keep taking the pills. But sooner or later you've got to get out because it's crashing then all at once the frozen hours melt out through the nervous system and seep out the pores. 
Danny: Trade: Phenodihydrochloride benzelex. Street: The embalmer. Withnail: Balls. I'll swallow it and run a mile. Danny: Cool your boots man. This pill's valued at two quid. Withnail: Two quid! You're out of your mind. I: That's sense Withnail. Withnail: You can stuff it up your arse for nothing and fuck off while you're doing it. Danny: No need to insult me man. I was leaving anyway. Have either of you got shoes? 
Monte's house 
[A battered Jag pulls up outside Monte's house and Withnail and I get out. There is a rather flash looking open-topped Rolls parked outside. The sound of a Schubert piano sonata comes from the house.] 
Withnail: Monte's car. 
[Withnail knocks on the door. Monte, a rather fat, effeminate, middle-aged gentleman, opens the door. He is holding a very large fluffy cat and a watering can.] 
[Monty moves to the sideboard and pours the drinks. Withnail lights up yet another cigarette.] 
Monty: Do you like vegetables? I've always been fond of root crops but I only started to grow last summer. I happen to think the cauliflower more beautiful than the rose. Withnail: Chin chin. 
[He drinks the sherry.] 
Monty: Do you grow? Withnail: Geraniums. Monty: Oh you little traitors. I think the carrot infinitely more fascinating than the geranium. The carrot has mystery. Flowers are essentially tarts. Prostitutes for the bees. There is you'll agree a certain je ne ses quoi oh so very special about a firm young carrot. Excuse me. Do help yourselves to another drink. 
[Withnail turns and reaches a bottle over from the sideboard. He takes a long swig. ] 
Monty: Get that damned little swine out of here. It's trying to get itself in with you. It's trying for even more advantage. It's obsessed with its gut - its like a rugby ball now. It will die, it will die! [He storms around ineffectually.] 
Withnail: Monte, Monte. Monty: No dear boy you must leave, you must leave. Once again that oaf has destroyed my day. Withnail: Listen Monte. Can I just have a quick word in private. Monty: Oh, very well. 
[Later they are leaving the house. Monty shows them to the door.] 
Monty: Good night my dears. Withnail: Good night Monty. 
[Monty closes the inner door to the porch behind them.] 
Withnail: At some point or another I want to stop and get hold of a child. I: What do you want a child for? Withnail: To tutor it in the ways of righteousness and procure some uncontaminated urine. [He takes out the bottle and instructions provided by Danny.] 
Withnail: This is a device enabling the drunken driver to operate in absolute safety. You fill this with piss, take this pipe down the trouser and sellotape this valve to the end of the old chap. Then you get horrible drunk and they can't fucking touch you. According to these instructions, you refuse everything except a urine sample. You undo your valve, give them a dose of unadulterated child's piss and they have to give you your keys back. Danny's a genius. I'm going to have a doze. [They drive on. Later, with the light fading, they leave the motorway. It becomes clear that the car has only one functioning headlight. Still later it is totally dark and raining heavily. I stops and attempts to transfer the single wiper from Withnail's side of the car to his own but it refuses to come off. He gets back in the car and in shutting the door wakes Withnail, who looks considerably the worse for wear.] 
Withnail: Are we there? I: No, we're not we're here and we're in the middle of a fucking gale. Now you'll have to keep a look out your side. If you see anything tell me. Get hold of that map. Withnail: Where's the whisky? I: What for? Withnail: I've got a bastard behind the eyes. I can't take aspirins without a drink. Where's the aspirin? I: Probably in the bathroom. Withnail: You mean we've come out here in the middle of fucking nowhere without aspirins? I: Where are we? Withnail: How should i know where we are. I feel like a pig shat in my head. I: Now get hold of that map and look for a place called Crow Crag. 
The cottage 
[They draw up in a yard and get out of the car. Withnail staggers around aimlessly as I gets the baggage from the boot.] 
I: Give it a chance. It's got to warm up Withnail: Warm up!? We may as well sit round a cigarette. This is ridiculous. We'll be found dead in here next spring. [He attemps half-heartedly to light a cigarette.] 
Withnail: I've got a blinding fucking headache. Got to have heat! [He stands and smashes a chair against the floor. A little later the fire is burning considerably higher.] 
Withnail: Problem's we've got to keep this bastard burning I: Well we've got enough furniture for tonight. Tomorrow we get down that farm and get some logs. Withnail: This is a mistake I tell you. This is a dreadful mistake. 
I's bedroom 
[I wakes the next morning and gets out of bed. He checks on Withnail who is still asleep. He steps outside and walks accross the yard to examine the view. It is quite magnificent. Later, he is dressed and walks down to the farm. The building is surrounded by an assortment of farmyard junk. He knocks at the door] 
I: Do you think you could tell me where I could buy some coal and wood? Old woman: You'll have to see my son. He runs this farm. I: Where is you son? Old woman: Up in top field. You can't miss him, his legs bound in polythyne. 
The cottage 
[I walks back into the yard outside the cottage, slips, and falls in the mud. He picks himself up and storms inside.] 
I: Withnail you bastard wake up. [He bangs on the ceiling and moves to the sink to wash.] 
I: Oye, wake up you bastard you've got to get wood. [Withnail enters, dressed already and wrapped in a blanket.] 
I: Then get after it. That's the man. [They rush out of the cottage and pursue the tractor.] 
Withnail: Hey, stop! I: Stop Withnail: Stop I: Stop please! [The tractor driver notices them and stops.] 
Withnail: Stop please! Please stop! [They run up to the side of the tractor and address the driver, Mr Parkin.] 
Withnail: Are you the farmer? [To I] Shut up, I'll deal with this. [to Parkin] We've gone on holiday by mistake. We're in this cottage here. Are you the farmer? I: Stop saying that Withnail, of course he's the fucking farmer. [To Parkin] We're friends of Montague Withnail, we desperately need fuel and wood. [The farmer shakes his head, bewildered.] 
I: Montegue Withnail, you must know him. Fat man, owns the cottage. Parkin: Ay, seen the fat man. London type. Queer sort. Think his name's French or something. Withnail: French!? Parkin: Ay, Adrian de la Touche. He hasn't been up year for couple of years. Last time I saw him, he were; he were with his son. I: Yeah, that's him. Withnail: Listen, we're bona fide. We're not from London. Could we have some fuel and wood? Parkin: Ay, I could bring you up some logs later but I've got the cows and that to feed first. Withnail: When? I: Shut up. That would be very kind of you. Erm, what about food? Do you think you could sell us something to eat? Parkin: I could bring you up a chicken but you'll have to go to the village really. I: That would be very kind of you Mr? Parkin: Parkin I: Mr Parkin. What happened to your leg? Parkin: Got a randy bull up there. Give me one in knee! [They walk back inside. I claps Withnail on the back. Back inside, Withnail removes his boots and places them in the oven attached to the fire.] 
I: Never point guns at people. Extremely dangerous. Now what about this roasting dish? What are we going to cook it in? Withnail: You're the food and plummings man. I've no idea. I wish I'd found this an hour ago. I'd have taken great pleasure in gunning this pullet down. 
[He pokes the chicken with the gun. It still has a few feathers.] 
Withnail: Shouldn't it be more bald than that? I: No it shouldn't. Right, we're going to have to reverse the roles. We can bake the potatoes in the oven and boil this bastard over the fire. 
[He tries to push the chicken into a kettle but it is too large to fit.] 
Withnail: Lets get its feet off I: No, it's going to need it's feet. 
The fields 
[It is dark. The silloutes of Withnail and I appear on the skyline.] 
I [narrating]: If the Crow and Crown had ever had life it was dead now. It was like walking into a lung. A self-sustained nicotin-yellow and fly-blown lung. Its landlord was a retired alcoholic with military pretentions and a complection like the inside of a teapot. By the time the doors opened he was arseholed on rum and got progresively more arseholed until he could take no more and fell over at about twelve 'o' clock. 
The Crow and Crown 
[Withnail and I are stood at the bar.] 
