EXT. TRAIN – DAY 
The ENGINE gives a WARNING BLAST before creeping slowly forward. 
INT. TRAIN (MOVING) 
As Samuel spots something out of the window that causes him to light up. 
SAMUEL Look, Mama...! 
HIS POV THROUGH WINDOW 
A road runs parallel to the train track, and Hochstetler in his wagon urges his horse almost to the gallop as he attempts to keep pace with the train. 
BACK TO SCENE 
As Rachel smiles. 
RACHEL I see, darling. 
And Samuel cranes to look back, waving, for as long as he can. 
EXT. LANCASTER COUNTRYSIDE – DAY 
The train moves across a broad panorama of fields, dotted with dolls'-house-sized farms and the tiny figures of Amish farmers working their horse-drawn equipment. 
SERIES OF CUTS 
As the train continues its eastward journey... Samuel stares raptly out of the window at the changing patterns of the countryside. He points in wonder at a brightly colored hot air balloon as it drifts slowly over timbered hills... he looks unsure as the pattern of field and wood gives way to suburbs, bustling shopping centers, restaurants, car lots and fast food outlets. 
EXT. PHILADELPHIA SLUMS 
As the train travels past dilapidated row houses, streets choked with cars and the gutters with filth. 
INT. TRAIN (MOVING) 
Now Samuel is staring out the window with some confusion, almost apprehension: 
SAMUEL Is this where we're going? 
RACHEL Of course not. We're going to Baltimore. It's much nicer in Baltimore. 
And Rachel draws her son closer, turning her back on the window. 
INT. 30TH ST. STATION, PHILADELPHIA – DAY 
Rachel is in a line at one of the counters. The plain dress of the two Amish – particularly Samuel's black coat and hat – are drawing curious stares. 
SAMUEL 
He's uncomfortably aware of the shy looks and giggles of a little girl about his own age, standing in line with her parents at the next counter. He edges away from his mother... 
ANGLE 
As Samuel comes upon a figure garbed in a long black frock coat and flat-brimmed hat... the man's back is turned, could, from appearances, be an Amishman. 
Samuel stares... A beat, the man turns to face Samuel and we discover that he is a Hasidic Jew. 
SAMUEL 
As he reacts. 
BACK TO TICKET COUNTER 
As Rachel's turn arrives. The TICKET SELLER glances up and she shows him her ticket. 
RACHEL We have a ticket to Baltimore. Where is that train, please? 
TICKET SELLER Delayed three hours. You'll hear an announcement when it's time to board. 
He starts to go without his hat, but Rachel collars him and puts it on his head. 
ANGLE IN MEN'S ROOM 
As Samuel enters. 
It's a long row of sinks, urinals, and stalls... Samuel stops before one of the urinals – a long, trough-like affair with water drizzling down the rear porcelain panel. 
It's set a little high for Samuel, and it is making GLUGGING FLUSHING NOISES that are, at least, intimidating. Samuel stares for a moment, then turns, looks toward the stalls, stoops to see which are empty. 
HIS POV – TOILETS 
Beneath the row of doors we can see no feet visible. Samuel is alone in the restroom. 
BACK TO SCENE 
As Samuel proceeds along the row of door, finally selects a stall near the end. He enters. As he does so, a heavily bearded youth in a dirty sweatshirt enters. With some urgency, he removes small notebook from his pocket and places it behind a paper towel dispenser. Suddenly he glances up. 
Two other men have entered the men's room; one is a large BLACK MAN in a three-piece suit under an expensive, overcoat. His PARTNER is a Caucasian in designer jeans, half boots and a short leather jacket. 
CUT TO: 
DOOR – MEN'S' ROOM 
The diffused shape of faces behind the frosted glass of the Men's room door, which is pushed open to reveal, JOHN BOOK, who comes striding through to be momentarily lost in the crowd of police, reporters and others. He is about 40, with a rangy, athletic body. Behind him comes CARTER, Book's black partner – about five years younger than Book. Book is wearing a suit, Carter is much more casually – almost disreputably – dressed. 
CUT TO: 
BENCH 
Little Samuel watching Book, back to crowd of police, as Book questions an old black CUSTODIAN. 
BOOK You found the body? 
CUSTODIAN Uh uh. Not me, daddy, I just reported it. It was the kid. 
BOOK What kid? 
CUSTODIAN How'n hell do I know what kid? The kid in the funny black threads. 
TIGHT SHOT – SAMUEL 
Worry-eyed, still staring straight ahead. Then his eyes move suddenly to his left. 
BOOK'S LEGS – SAMUEL'S POV 
Coming in at full stride, then stopping. 
SAMUEL 
He doesn't raise his eyes... just looks at the legs. And, slowly, the legs begin to bend at the knees. We see Book's belt buckle, then his big pistol in its holster, then his face. He stares at Samuel for a moment, then... 
ANGLE – BOOK 
As his face breaks into a big grin, and... 
BOOK Hi, kid. 
RACHEL 
Immediately alarmed, intervening. 
RACHEL What do you want of my son? 
THE SCENE 
As Book takes out his wallet, displays his shield. 
BOOK I'm a police officer. I'm going to have to talk to the boy. What's his name? 
RACHEL Samuel. Samuel Lapp. (then, quickly) But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me... our train is leaving soon. 
BOOK There'll be another train. (turns to Samuel) The man who was killed tonight was a policeman, Sam. It's my job to find out who did it. I want you to tell me everything you saw when you went in there. 
SAMUEL (stammers) I saw him. 
BOOK Who'd you see? 
Sam looks at his mother. 
BOOK Who'd you see, Sam? The man on the floor? 
SAMUEL No... I saw the man who killed him. 
Book stares at him in surprise, speaks over his shoulder to Carter. 
BOOK Anybody know about this? 
CARTER I didn't even know about it. 
BOOK (back to Sam) Okay, Sam. Can you tell me what he looked like? 
SAMUEL (groping, touching his clothes and pointing at Carter) He was... like him. 
BOOK (nods) Black... I understand. What else,Sam? 
A beat, then Sam crosses quickly to Carter, Book's rather slightly built partner: 
SAMUEL Not Zwartich, like him – 
Book frowns, puzzled: 
BOOK Try that one again, Sam – 
Samuel gives his mother a helpless look; exasperated, Rachel intervenes with Book. She glances at Carter: 
RACHEL May I talk to you? 
ANGLE 
Book drives around 13th Street, a ravaged corridor between neon lit restaurants, bars, porno shops and darkened storefronts. 
Carter sits beside him, Rachel and her son in the back seat looking out at the assorted array of desperate characters huddled in doorways or wandering aimlessly about. On the POLICE RADIO a description of the cop killing is BROADCAST EVERY FEW MINUTES. 
CARTER I got there late, John. 
BOOK Let's just find Coalmine. (beat) Listen, Zenovich made a mistake. You didn't let anybody down. It happens 
CARTER (grimly) It won't happen again. 
RACHEL Where are you taking us? 
BOOK We're looking for a suspect. We've reason to believe he's still in the area. 
RACHEL You have no right to keep us here. 
BOOK Yes I do. Your son is a material witness to a homicide. 
RACHEL You don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws! 
BOOK Doesn't surprise me. I meet a lot of people like that. 
RACHEL It's not a joke. 
Book decides to try contrition: 
BOOK You're right. It's not a joke. Listen, I know a little about the Amish. I know this has to be an ordeal for you; and I'm really sorry you an Samuel got involved. 
Samuel shoots a look at Book then mutters something to his mother in German. She responds in the same language. Book frowns. 
BOOK What was that? 
RACHEL He wants to know who you are. Your name. I told him we don't need to know anything about you. 
Book eyes Samuel: 
BOOK Book. John Book 
EXT. 13TH ST. STATION – NIGHT 
Book's car stops, and from out of the shadows darts a wizened little MAN. He looks about before crossing to the driver's side window. 
INT. BOOK'S CAR – NIGHT 
Book lowers the window. 
BOOK Sammy, where's Coalmine? 
The little man stares at the weird-looking couple in the back seat. 
SAMMY What you got there, the Salvation Army? 
BOOK Coalmine. 
SAMMY Try "Happy Valley". 
EXT. HAPPY VALLEY BAR, SOUTH STREET – NIGHT 
Book's car pulls up outside the bar and he and Carter get out, and move swiftly inside. 
INT. HAPPY VALLEY – NIGHT 
Sixty black faces stare as the police enter. A hush falls on the group. Book and Carter spot their man at the bar and move up either side of him. They've moved carefully to this point... no mistakes. From the back, the black man they've approached certainly looks like he could be the man who did the killing of Zenovitch. And, as Book and Carter make their move... 
EXT. HAPPY VALLEY – NIGHT 
As Book and Carter explode through the door of the bar, violently propelling Coalmine along with them. Now we see Coalmine is not the killer. 
As Book and Carter escort Coalmine out of the bar a police squad car pulls up, its headlights shining into Book's car. An alarmed Rachel holds Samuel close as Book forces Coalmine's face down next to the car window. 
BOOK Put some light on him. 
A cop pulls out a flashlight, begins to play the beam over Coalmine's face. 
BOOK (continuing; to Samuel) Look at him. 
Crazy as Rasputin on speed and booze, Coalmine glares at Samuel inside the car: 
Samuel, white-faced, finally shakes his head in the negative. 
Coalmine tries to twist free of Book's grip. Book snaps, and slams Coalmine's skull into the window edge, finally crushing his face up against the front window. His face takes on a grotesque shape against the glass. Carter restrains his partner and Book cools down. Coalmine is led stumbling away by the uniformed police. This sudden show of violence has horrified and angered Rachel, and she glares at Book as he gets back in the car. 
RACHEL John Book, you listen to me! I will have no further part in this, nor will my son! As God stands between us! 
Book sighs, starts the engine and moves off. 
EXT. HOTEL – PHILADELPHIA – NIGHT 
Book pulls up outside a hotel entrance as a uniformed DOORMAN moves to open the rear door. 
Elaine's house is situated on the corner of a row of terraces, which stretch into the distance on both sides of the street. 
INT. ELAINE'S HOUSE 
As Samuel comes out of the guest room in his night-shirt, turns up the hall and opens the door to the bathroom. 
ANGLE 
But it's not the bathroom; it's Elaine's bedroom. She and FRED are tangled in the sheets, furiously making love. Elaine gasps, Fred manages to grunt. 
FRED Wrong door, kid. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As Samuel quickly shuts the door. A straight-faced beat; then, barely suppressing a giggle, he hurries on... 
ANGLE IN LIVING ROOM 
As Rachel appears in the living room entry. Samuel is sitting on the floor with two boys of about his own age, watching television. 
They're eating cold cereal out of a box. 
RACHEL'S POV – TV SCREEN 
Some artless Saturday morning cartoon. 
BACK TO RACHEL 
As she frowns, watching her son and the other two staring hypnotically. And... 
ANGLE IN LIVING ROOM 
It's later in the morning now, as Elaine, a bit blearily, appears in the entryway, stares in groggy disbelief. 
HER POV – KIDS 
Her oldest boy and Samuel are busily washing the windows while her youngest is pushing a carpet sweeper. The TV is off. 
BACK TO ELAINE 
As she stares. 
ANGLE IN KITCHEN 
Rachel is standing in the middle of the now immaculate kitchen finishing a brisk mop of the floor. The coffee is perking. Elaine appears. 
ELAINE (mutters) Jesus... 
Rachel turns cheerily. 
RACHEL Good morning. 
ELAINE (helplessly) You didn't have to... 
RACHEL I wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night. (and) Anyway, I needed something to do. I was so angry with your brother. He's so... agaanisish! 
ELAINE Aganishish? Yeah, that sounds like John. 
She takes a seat at the table, still shaking her head. 
RACHEL Just a minute. I'll pour you some coffee. 
ELAINE You're not carrying a bullwhip... how'd you manage to put my kids to work? 
RACHEL (smiles) I made it a contest... the one who does best gets his cereal back first. (and) Children like to help... they only need to be kept after a little bit. 
Rachel means no harm by this, but Elaine's eyes begin to storm. 
ELAINE Oh, is that so? (and) No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside down! 
Rachel's smile fades at Elaine's trembling outburst: 
RACHEL Please, I didn't mean... 
Abruptly Elaine rises and snatches the mop from Rachel's hands. 
She mops furiously as she Continues: 
ELAINE I know exactly what you meant! Listen, maybe I'm not a world-class housefrau, but maybe I don't have time to polish the goddamn china and keep after the kids! (and) It's none of your business, but I don't happen to have a man around here full time. So I sell cosmetics in a goddamn drugstore and sometimes I can even pay the rent on time! So maybe I'm not Mary Poppins, but maybe I don't need to have it jammed down my throat like this. 
She finishes the floor, hurls the mop aside with a CLATTER: 
ELAINE There is that clean enough for you? 
Rachel is speechless, Elaine is on the point of bursting into tears. At which point Fred appears at the entry in his undershirt, taking in the sparkling kitchen. 
FRED Jesus, Elaine... Somebody die and leave you a broom? 
Not a politic observation on Fred's part. 
Samuel grins, nods imperceptibly. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As Book rolls the gumball down the table to Samuel. But just as Samuel is about to cover it with his hand, Rachel reaches over and plucks it off the table. She shakes her head at Samuel. 
BOOK (to Rachel) Just wanted to see if you were on your toes. 
EXT. CITY PARK – DAY 
Book, Sam and Rachel sit on a park bench eating a lunch of hot dogs heaped with kraut. 
Book watches with amusement as Samuel wolfs down his lunch. Rachel eyes him a beat. then: 
RACHEL Your sister said you don't have a family? 
BOOK No. 
RACHEL She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility. 
Book gives her a look: 
BOOK Oh? Anything else? 
RACHEL Oh yes. She thinks you like policing because you think you're right about everything. And you're the only one who can do anything. And that when you drink a lot of beer you say things like none of the other police would know a crook from a... um... bag of elbows. 
Book is staring at her. Rachel nods. 
RACHEL I think that's what she said. 
Just then Samuel belches with huge satisfaction, drawing looks from Book and a couple of passersby. Rachel smiles proudly. 
RACHEL Good appetite. 
CUT TO: 
INT. OUTER OFFICE/WAITING ROOM, NARCOTICS DIVISION – DAY 
Rachel sits uneasily in the outer office, one or two police clerks eyeing her curiously. A sign on the desk reads "Narcotics Division." 
Rachel cranes forward trying to peer through a partially open door. 
INT. DETECTIVES ROOM, NARCOTICS DIVISION, POLICE H.Q. – DAY 
A group of Narcotics Detectives are interrupted in mid conversation by the opening of the main office door. They stare in considerable surprise. 
CUT TO: 
JOHN BOOK 
Standing in the doorway, holding little Samuel by the hand. 
BOOK Afternoon, gentlemen. I'd like you to meet Samuel Lapp. We'd like a little help. 
INT. SMALL OFFICE, NARCOTICS DIVISION – DAY 
A Narcotics Detective enters the room laden with several volumes of mug shots. He puts them on the desk beside a similar book which Samuel is intently studying. Sam sits on the chair cushions in a big swivel rocker. 
The Detective, SGT. KAMAN, eyes Book a little suspiciously – internal affairs officers are not greeted warmly by the working policemen in any department. 
KAMAN There's a Sgt. Carter on the phone for you. 
Book gets up and moves to the door. 
KAMAN And, Captain, don't want to rush you, but I'm gonna need these files back in a half hour. We got a lot of work to do round here. 
The two men leave. Samuel looks about before hopping off his perch and following the direction taken by Book. 
INT. DETECTIVES ROOM, NARCOTICS DIVISION – DAY 
Through glass partitions we can see Book on the telephone in a cubicle of an office. 
Samuel has drifted out of the office and is idling amid the bustle of the squadroom. 
He crosses to a glass case which holds a collection of plaques and framed newspaper accounts which denote instances of outstanding duty and achievement. 
ANGLE THOUGH GLASS CASE 
As Samuel moves along, only half interested in what his eyes are taking in, not really old enough to comprehend anyway. 
Until suddenly he freezes. 
SAMUEL'S POV – NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT 
Enlarged, prominently displayed. The headline reads: "Division Chief McElroy Honored For Youth Project". Accompanying the item is a large sidebar mug-shot of McElroy – clearly the black man who murdered the young cop in the train station men's room. 
BACK TO SAMUEL 
He stares, transfixed. 
BOOK 
Already starting to leap away to one side, he is hit, driven into a half-turn. He clutches at the wound, as: 
MCELROY 
Coming right on, FIRING again... the pistol's report a WHOOSHING, like the opening of a bottle of cheap champagne. And McElroy still smiling as: 
BOOK 
Hit... a grazing near-miss this time, but enough to send Book down hard and grasping. 
MCELROY 
Lowering the pistol alongside his leg, as two MEN, barely taking notice of anything, cross with their backs to Book toward McElroy. 
He smiles at them. 
BOOK 
Down, muttering CURSES. 
THE SCENE 
As McElroy walks past Book, drops the pistol to the pavement, keeps on going... and is gone. 
BOOK 
GROANING in pain, beginning to try to crawl crab-like. And we HEAR – from the agonized recesses of Book's Dream. 
SCHAEFFER (V.O.) Who else knows? 
BOOK (V.O.) Just us. 
As the lights of an oncoming car – going very slowly, on its way to a parking space – sweep over him and we HEAR it come to a sudden, squealing stop. Book is already trying to get to his feet... now succeeds, lurching into a swaying stance, using an adjacent car for support. OFF SCREEN we HEAR a car door slam, and footsteps hurrying in our direction, accompanied by excited voices. Book HEARS, turns to face the oncomers, 
ANGLE 
A fat, middle-aged MAN has approached to within some feet of Book, looks on edgily: 
MAN Hey, buddy, what's the score? Little too much to drink? 
Book stares at him, then looks down at his belly. 
BOOK'S WOUND 
As Book removes his hand we can see one of the bullets struck him low in the side, just below the ribcage... the other just above it (but this one inflicting only minor damage). 
THE SCENE 
As the man stares: 
MAN Goddamn, buddy. You better get to a hospital! (and) Here; I'll give you a hand. 
He starts to approach, but Book shoves him away. 
BOOK No! No hospital! 
By now the man's WIFE is hovering at a safe distance: 
WIFE Let him alone, Henry! If he wants to die in the street, that's his business! 
But the man is not content: 
MAN Shut up, Romona! Will ya look at that blood? 
Book has tried to lurch toward his car; the man tries to intercept him: 
MAN Come on, buddy... you're gonna bleed to death! 
Book whirls on him, his service revolver in his hand pointed squarely at the fat man's face: 
MAN Shit! 
WIFE (quavering) I told you, Henry! 
Book doesn't trust himself to speak, but the .38 is sufficiently eloquent for the circumstances, He stares at the fat man another beat, then hesitates, turns, starts back toward his car. 
EXT. STREET – PHILADELPHIA – NIGHT 
As Book's car wheels somewhat erratically through traffic. 
INT. BOOK'S CAR (MOVING) 
Book has a gym bag open on the seat next to him, is stuffing a tshirt under his belt to staunch the blood. And... 
INT. CARTER'S APARTMENT – BEDROOM – NIGHT 
As he's awakened by the RINGING bedside telephone. He snaps on a lamp... He's instantly awake, not unused to such rousing in the wee hours. A woman sleeps beside him. 
RACHEL No, he must stay here. 
Stoltzfus gives Eli a puzzled look. And: 
ELI Didn't you hear Stoltzfus? What if he dies? Then the sheriff will come. They'll say we broke their laws – 
RACHEL We'll pray that he doesn't die! But if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows! 
ELI Rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands. 
RACHEL I know God help me, I know that, Eli. (then) But I tell you that if he's found here, the people who did this to him will come for Samuel. 
Rachel beseeches them helplessly: 
RACHEL What else can we do? 
EXT. LAPP DRIVE 
Levi has hitched Eli's mules to the rear of Book's car and is towing it up the drive toward the barn, with Samuel catching a ride on the bumper. 
RACHEL 
Where she's waiting with the big barn doors thrown open. As the mules tow the car in, she closes the doors. 
INT. LAPP FARMHOUSE LIVING ROOM 
As Stoltzfus and Levi are about to go: Stoltzfus turns to Rachel: 
STOLTZFUS Make a poultice... three parts milk, two parts linseed oil... for the infection. 
I'll send Mary by with some teas I will brew myself. 
RACHEL Thank you. 
Stoltzfus turns to Eli: 
STOLTZFUS Lapp, I'll have to speak with the diener on this matter. 
ELI (nods) As you see fit, Stoltzfus. 
CUT TO: 
INT. SICKROOM – LAPS FARM – NIGHT 
As Rachel enters, turns up a kerosene lamp which is burning low at bedside. She's carrying the poultice Stoltzfus ordered. 
Book's brow is beaded with sweat. 
Rachel seats herself next to the bed, strips away the sweat- soaked sheet. Her eyes take in his bare torso, and we should get the feeling that there's rather more male animal on display here just now than she's quite comfortable with. 
She begins to apply the poultice. 
ANGLE 
As Book rouses to semi-consciousness, in his delirium he recoils with alarm. 
RACHEL It's all right! You have got to lie still. 
Book stares up at her without recognition, but some of what she says seems to penetrate. He quiets. 
RACHEL (soothingly) Yes, much better... 
ANGLE 
As Book lapses back into sleep. Rachel hasn't removed her hand from his chest. Abruptly she does so. 
She finds herself wondering about this man lying before her, so suddenly a part of her life. She notices details; bruises, scars, the knuckles are hard, grazed, a tattoo on one shoulder. While lost in this reverie, the delirious Philadelphia policeman begins to mutter. Incoherently at first, then the words take shape – swear words; curses; fuck this and that; shit; etc. Rachel rises abruptly, her cheeks coloring, as the barrage of language pours from his mouth. She beats a hasty retreat closing the door swiftly behind her. 
INT. SCHAEFFER'S OFFICE – DAY 
He's on the phone: 
SCHAEFFER Looks like we're going to need some help from you folks down there. 
INT. LANCASTER COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE – DAY 
Where an UNDERSHERIFF is on the phone: 
UNDERSHERIFF ...want to help any way we can, Chief, but you got to understand we've got upwards of seven thousand Amish over here. 
And that's just Lancaster County. 
INTERCUT SCHAEFFER 
Who is trying to control his impatience: 
SCHAEFFER I've got the woman's name, Sheriff. Lapp. Rachel Lapp. That should simplify your work. 
The Undersheriff frowns. He doesn't like being talked down to. 
RACHEL See. Anyway, you don't have any clothes on. And besides that, Bishop Tschantz wants to talk to you when you feel better. 
The elders appear to have concluded their conference, and are filing out. Stoltzfus pauses at bedside. 
STOLTZFUS Rest, Mr. Book. That's the ticket. And drink my of my tea. 
He goes. Book is still fending off the dizziness. Rachel puts the teacup to his lips. 
BOOK Tell him his tea stinks. 
RACHEL (smiles) You tell him. When you're able. 
He looks like he's about to drop off again. Rachel rises. 
RACHEL (from the door) We're all very happy that you're going to live, John Book. We didn't quite know what we were going to do with you if you died. 
That penetrates for a moment just before Book slips into sleep again. 
INT. LAPP LIVING ROOM – DAY 
As the rather worrisome Hershberger frowns: 
HERSHBERGER ...but a gunshot wound. Very serious. 
TSCHANTZ It is not the first time we have done this. In the Englischer war of the revolution, old Elmer Miller's grandfather took in gunshot English soldiers. (a tad of pride) Saved them, too. 
They all nod. What Tschantz says is well known. Then: 
ERB Still, he should be among his own people. 
Rachel enters on this last. 
RACHEL He'll leave as soon as he is able. He already wants to go. 
Hershberger gives her a gloomy look, turns to Stoltzfus: 
HERSHBERGER How long will that be, Stoltzfus? 
STOLTZFUS (shrugs) A month. Maybe less. With God's healing love. 
EXT. BOOK'S SISTER'S HOUSE – PHILADELPHIA – DAY 
Schaeffer is knocking at the front doors. A beat, then Elaine opens it cautiously, peers out. 
ELAINE (half fearfully) Did you find him? 
SCHAEFFER Not yet. 
Suddenly her eyes blaze, she starts to close the door: 
ELAINE Then go away, you bastard. 
Schaeffer quickly – but gently – prevents her from shutting it. 
SCHAEFFER Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position. 
ELAINE (bitterly) He accused John of taking kickbacks. And you know – anybody who knows John – knows that's a goddamn lie! 
SCHAEFFER (smoothly) Of course, Elaine. But as long as there's any question, better Johnny should come back and clear his name. 
ELAINE (cuts in) Better you should get off my front porch before I get my mace! 
SCHAEFFER Elaine, I don't want to have to take you in for questioning. You've got his car, you were the last to see him – 
ELAINE (clipped) I don't know where he is. 
SCHAEFFER But... if you had to guess? 
ANOTHER ANGLE – SCHAEFFER'S CAR 
McElroy watching. 
THEIR POV – FRONT DOOR 
We see a final exchange between Elaine and Schaeffer. Elaine forces the door shut. Schaeffer turns, walks slowly to his car. 
INT. SCHAEFFER'S CAR 
As Schaeffer opens the door, climbs in, sinks wearily into the seat, beside McElroy. 
MCELROY She say where he is? 
SCHAEFFER I don't think she knows. 
Schaeffer is staring grimly ahead. 
SCHAEFFER What about Carter? 
MCELROY Tight. But I'm working on him. 
ELI The gun – that gun of the hand – is for the taking of human life. Would you kill another man? Eh? 
Samuel stares at it, not meeting his grandfather's eyes. Eli leans forward, extends his hands ceremonially. 
ELI What you take into your hands, you take into your heart. 
A beat, then Samuel musters some defiance. 
SAMUEL I would only kill a bad man. 
ELI Only a bad man. I see. And you know these bad men on sight? You are able to look into their hearts and see this badness? 
SAMUEL I can see what they do. 
Now he meets Eli's eyes: 
SAMUEL I have seen it. 
Eli expels a deep sigh; then: 
ELI And having seen, you would become one of them? (intent... gesturing) Don't you see...? The hand leads the arm leads the shoulder leads the head... leads the heart. The one goes into the other into the other into the other... And you have changed, and gone amongst them... 
He breaks off, bows his head for a moment. Then he fixes the boy with a stern eye and, driving he heel of his palm firmly into the tabletop with enormous intensity: 
ELI "Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord!" 
ELI (indicating pistol; continuing from Corinthians 6:17) "And touch not the unclean thing!" 
His intensity tinged with righteous anger, he is hugely impressive. 
EXT. WASHHOUSE – NEAR KITCHEN – NIGHT 
Book stands near the door to the kitchen, and has heard most or all of Eli's words. He turns, and painfully makes his way into the washhouse, moving quietly, hoping no one will come out from the kitchen. 
EXT. BARN – LAPP FARM – DAY 
Samuel harnesses up the family mare, and backs her into the traces of the buggy. 
INT. BOOK'S BEDROOM – DAY 
Book stands at the window in a worn robe. Below, through the window, we can see Samuel and Eli in the barnyard. A beat, then Book crosses impatiently back to his bed, sits down, picks up a dog-earred copy of The American Dairyman. There's a stack of well-thumbed farm magazines and copies of The Budget (the Amish newspaper) on the bedside table. 
There's a knock. Rachel enters carrying a pile of clothing. She smiles. 
RACHEL Enjoying your reading? 
BOOK Very interesting. I'm learning a lot about manure. (eyes the clothing) What's that? 
RACHEL Your shirt and jacket are still stained with blood. I have them soaking.You can wear these. 
She passes the clothes to Book. 
BOOK Your husband's? 
RACHEL Yes. It's good that someone can have the use of them. Besides, in your clothes you'd stand out to strangers. 
She continues, cheerfully. 
RACHEL I should tell you these do not have buttons. (shows him) See? Hooks and eyes. 
BOOK Something wrong with buttons? 
RACHEL Buttons are Hochmut. 
BOOK Hochmut? 
RACHEL Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain. 
BOOK (nodding) Anything against zippers? 
RACHEL (almost blushing) You make fun of me. Like the tourists. Driving by all the time. Some even come into the yard. Very rude. They seem to think we are quaint. 
BOOK Quaint? Can't imagine why. 
She smiles. 
BOOK Where's the nearest telephone? 
RACHEL Telephone? The Gunthers across the valley. They're Mennonite. They have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even. 
BOOK No. I'd want a public phone. 
Rachel's face clouds. 
RACHEL Well... the store at Saltzburg... (then briskly) But you won't be going to Saltzburg for a while. 
BOOK I'm going this morning. 
RACHEL But Stoltzfus said... 
BOOK Make that 1790. 
He hangs up. A beat, then he stares toward the door of the store. 
INT. BARN – DAY 
Book works on his car. The battery has gone flat and he's trying to charge it up by running wires to a battery mounted under the front seat of the Lapp buggy. 
Eli stands at the barn door staring at him, again the disapproving look. 
ELI If you are well enough to do that thing, you can do work for me. 
Book is genuinely apologetic. 
BOOK Sure, I'm sorry. Hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. Mine's dead... How can I help? What can I do? 
ELI Maybe milking. 
BOOK (eyes Eli) Milking? 
ELI Cows. You know, cows? 
BOOK I've seen pictures. 
ELI Good, you start tomorrow. 
INT. BOOK'S ROOM – LAPP FARM – NIGHT 
Where Book lies asleep. A beat, then Eli comes in carrying a lamp. 
He pauses a moment to peer at the sleeping figure with undisguised anticipation. Then he gives him a jarring thump: 
ELI (briskly) Veck oufl. Time for milking. 
Book comes groggily awake as Eli exits. He gropes for his watch. 
INSERT WATCHFACE 
It reads 4:30 a.m. 
BACK TO BOOK 
As he stares at it in disbelief. 
INT. BARN 
As the milk herd of half dozen or so cows ambles in with Samuel prodding them along, headed for the milking stalls. Book looks on in the lamplight, nonplused. 
SAMUEL 
Where he's pitching hay into the cow's feed-troughs. 
BOOK, ELI 
Where the old man is showing Book how to milk a cow by hand. We see Rachel watching from the milkhouse door (steam from scalding milk cans rising behind her). 
ELI Good, firm twist and pull, eh? (and) Right. Now you try it. 
Book gives him a look, takes over the milking stool. The cow shoots him a rather skeptical look over her shoulder. Book bends to his task. 
ELI Didn't you hear me, Book? Pull! You never had your hands on a teat before? 
BOOK (grimly) Not one this big. 
Eli unexpectedly finds this hilarious, cackles, gives Book a comradely, man-of-the-world thump on the shoulder that jars him. 
Then he moves off. Book bends to his task, and... 
ANGLE – RACHEL 
Grinning, giggling, covering her mouth with one hand. 
As he pours a pail full of milk into a large, stainless steel milk can. 
EXT. BARN 
As the milk herd is released back into the pasture. Book crosses into the f.g., stares OFF SCREEN. 
BOOK'S POV – HORIZON 
And dawnfire etching the hilltops. The BELLHOUSE behind the house, the sun reflecting from the heavy bell beneath its small roof. 
BACK TO BOOK 
Something in him can't help but respond to the beauty. 
A beat, then he blows on his hands, rubs them briskly together against the morning chill, and turns back to the barn. 
EXT. LAPP FARMHOUSE – DAY 
BOOK Oh? (and) What happened to Hochstetler? 
RACHEL We had some lemonade and he left. 
BOOK A real fireball. 
Rachel smiles. Book crosses to a workbench and selects another tool. 
RACHEL You know carpentry? 
BOOK I did some carpentry summers when I was going to school. 
RACHEL What else can you do? 
BOOK (really annoyed) I can whack people. I'm hell at whacking. 
RACHEL Whacking is not of much use on a farm. 
BOOK Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate job. 
RACHEL I'm sorry. I'm sure it is. 
She turns, starts to go. Then turns back, eyeing his makeshift garb: 
RACHEL Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you. 
Stifling a smile, she goes. HOLD on Book a beat, then... 
CUT TO: 
INT. LAPP FARMHOUSE – DINING ROOM 
Eli is seated at the head of the table, Book opposite Samuel and Rachel. The table is piled high with an incredible amount of food. 
Eli eyes Book cagily, waves his fork at him: 
ELI Eat up, Book. What's the matter with your appetite? 
BOOK Guess I'm not used to so much. 
ELI (snorts) Not used to hard work. That's what makes an appetite. 
Book swallows that one. With difficulty. Rachel intervenes: 
RACHEL Eli, John is a carpenter. (conciliatory afterthought) As well as being a fine policeman. 
ELI Eh? Well then, maybe he can go to Zook's barn-raising, eh? See how good a carpenter. 
Book can't refuse the challenge. 
BOOK Sure. 
RACHEL But... You may not be well enough. 
BOOK I'll drink some more of Stoltzfus' tea. 
EXT. / INT. BARN – NIGHT 
As Rachel, lamp in hand, walks up to the barn. She looks in to find Book tinkering with the battery hookup to the Lapp buggy. 
He glances up as she enters: 
BOOK Hi... 
As she sets her lamp down near the one he's using. 
RACHEL (beat) When will you be going? 
BOOK Not long... A few days. 
Another beat as Rachel watches him... Book, checking out the battery power, hits the radio – and suddenly from the Twentieth Century comes the sound of one of its major inventions – rock and roll. 
It fills the barn, but Book turns up the volume a click more even and, eyeing Rachel, starts moving with the beat. It's his culture, coming through loud and clear, as incongruous as it all might seem with the tough Philly cop decked out in Amish. 
Rachel can't help but laugh... Sensing her response, Book sweeps her up and they boogie in the lamplight, Rachel alternately protesting and laughing. 
BOOK You like it... Don't you? 
Rachel, confused, protests: 
RACHEL No... You just stop – 
But she doesn't really want to. Book grins: 
BOOK (mock alarm) Next thing you know you'll be off drinking beer and racing motorcycles. 
And it goes on... Rachel alternately protesting and laughing. 
ANGLE – THE BARN DOOR 
Book approaches Luke's stall warily... and as he does so the temperamental mule, reacting to form, starts to skitter, his hooves CRACKING against the walls of the stall. Book flinches. 
Book starts to talk gently to the animal: 
BOOK All right, you nasty son of a bitch, we're going to be friends whether you like it or not. 
Then, summoning his resolve, he carefully opens the stall gate. 
ANGLE 
As Luke eyes him balefully, Book reaches into his pocket, brings out some lumps of sugar. 
BOOK See... Sugar. You like sugar, don't you for Christ's sake? 
Finally, keeping a mistrustful eye on Book, Luke condescends to eat. Book nods with satisfaction. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
Rachel has entered the barn, is watching Book with a puzzled expression. 
RACHEL (surprised) Well... 
Book turns, grins with some pride of accomplishment! 
BOOK Won him over just like that. 
RACHEL I see. (and) But I hope you have a lot of sugar. (then, going) Eli is ready to go to Zook's. 
Just then Luke skitters impatiently... Book gives him a nervous look; one last tentative pat as Luke eyes him skeptically, then closes the stall gate and turns to go: 
BOOK Later. 
And we... 
EXT. ZOOK FARM – LANCASTER COUNTY – DAY 
BIG SHOT... it's early morning as the Amish buggies are arriving at the Zook farm for a barn-raising. 
In the b.g. we can see big stacks of lumber all around the construction site where a couple of dozen men have begun raising the main supports on the already laid foundation. 
Elsewhere, long tables have been set up and women are spreading them with cloths, setting out big tanks of hot coffee and cold lemonade for the men, 
LAPP BUGGY 
As Eli, Book, Rachel and Samuel step down, Book eyes the construction site. 
ELI Wait here 'til I find a gang you can work with. 
He goes. Book glances around as even more buggies arrive and more workmen and their families climb out. 
Eli appears with Hochstetler in tow. Hochstetler's broad face breaks into a grin: 
HOCHSTETLER Book! Good to see you! 
He pumps Book's hand with his usual vigor, smiling a greeting and pleasantry to Rachel. She looks on, amused. 
Hochstetler gives Rachel a look, and we realize that his showing up just now to appropriate Book was no happenstance. 
And Book realizes it as well. 
HOCHSTETLER Eli says you're a carpenter, Book. 
BOOK It's been a while. 
HOCHSTETLER No matter. Come with me. We can always use a good carpenter. 
With that he throws a huge arm around Book's shoulder and ushers him away. Rachel calls after them: 
RACHEL Good luck. 
BOOK / HOCHSTETLER 
As they move off. 
HOCHSTETLER Your hole is healed, then? 
BOOK (gives him a look) Pretty much. 
Hochstetler nods with satisfaction: 
HOCHSTETLER Good. Then you can go home. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
CUTS 
As the morning progresses: 
...Book and Hochstetler sawing and augering out heavy timbers on big sawhorses. There's an unmistakable atmosphere of competition between the two men, which doesn't go entirely unnoticed by the half-dozen or so other young men on the gang. 
SCHAEFFER I'll take it in the study. 
INT. STUDY / STORE – DAY 
Schaeffer takes the phone. 
SCHAEFFER You can hang up, dear. 
We HEAR the click of the other phone, 
BOOK You made a mistake, Paul. You shouldn't have taken Elton out. 
SCHAEFFER (beat) How bad did Mac get you? We figured pretty bad. 
BOOK I'm fine. I'm going to live a long time. That's what I called to tell you. 
SCHAEFFER (quickly) Johnny – 
BOOK You might want to pass it along to Mac. 
SCHAEFFER (urgently) Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone... We're getting close... real close... Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in – 
BOOK I've already got something worked out. (and) Be seeing you. 
Book hangs up the phone and the dead CLICK registers on Schaeffer. 
Book has gripped the phone so tightly that it takes a second to unclench his fist. Then it takes something else to resist his first impulse, which is to smash out at something... Training. Get it under control. Deal rationally with the situation. 
He straightens his jacket, wipes the sweat/tears from his eyes, turns and walks stiffly out of the Saltzburg General Store. 
INT. BUGGY – MAIN STREET – SALTZBURG – DAY 
Book, as Rachel eyes him. She has noticed his changed mood, but doesn't ask about it. He stares straight ahead, oblivious to the surroundings of the street, now crawling with tourists and traffic. 
EXT. NARROW SIDE STREET – SALTZBURG – DAY 
The buggy turns into the side street. Some hundred yards ahead another buggy is stopped in the middle of the road – several youths gathered about it. A pickup truck is stopped, facing the buggy. 
INT. LAPP BUGGY – DAY 
As Rachel approaches the scene, slowing down and finally stopping. 
Rachel is at first puzzled, then makes a small face, looks at Book. 
Rachel puts a restraining hand on Book's arm. 
RACHEL Do nothing. This happens from time to time. 
She senses him about to get out, grips his arm tightly. 
RACHEL It's not our way, John. We'll have nothing to do with violence! John! 
Book shakes free, gets out and slowly walks toward the... 
EXT. HOCHSTETLER'S BUGGY – DAY 
Hochstetler and his family sit, impassive, ignoring various jeers and taunts from the English lads – various jokes about them being dirty etc. One jabs an ice cream cone into Hochstetler's forehead, which leaves a curious white circle on his forehead. Another fools about with the horse causing it to shy. A third notices the slow, sure, approach of John Book. 
YOUTH Here comes another one! 
Book stops, his path blocked by the third youth. The youth flicks off Book's hat. 
BOOK (quietly) You're making a mistake. 
Hochstetler calls from his buggy. 
HOCHSTETLER Everything is all right, John. 
BOOK (to the youth) Pick up the hat. 
The youth momentarily unsure – something about Book's tone of voice. The youth does pick up the hat, crumples it, stamps on it, and puts it back at a crazy angle on Book's head. A pause, then Book explodes. 
The kid never knew what hit him or where it came from, he hits the road surface already unconscious. A second youth grabs Book from behind. A mistake. Book is smashing into him, spatters of blood from his nose flying in all directions. He's hitting too hard, too often. It's Schaeffer he's hitting. Hochstetler is pulling him away, Rachel is there too. A crowd is gathering, but as suddenly as it began it's over. Book shakes Hochstetler off him, straightens his hat, and in a kind of daze, begins walking past the scene in the direction of the Lapp farm. 
The youths are picking up their wounded, helping them back to their truck, aided by none other than Hochstetler. An OLD LOCAL addresses Rachel. 
LOCAL MAN Never seen anything like that in all my years. 
RACHEL (covering) He's from... Ohio... My cousin. 
LOCAL MAN We'll, them Ohio Amish sure must be different. (addresses a gathering crow) Our Lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in them. 
RACHEL John, lost control of himself. He... will be repentant. 
LOCAL MAN (to Rachel) You're Rachel Lapp, aren't you? 
RACHEL Yes. Samuel! We're going. 
A second man calls from the pickup. 
CLOSE on her face, staring straight ahead toward Book. 
ANGLE on Book, CLOSE. He turns and watches Rachel's approach. 
BIG WIDE ANGLE 
The light now nearly gone, the NIGHT SOUNDS beginning, as Rachel reaches Book and they embrace. 
EXT. FIELD BY ROAD – NIGHT 
Book and Rachel in a passionate embrace, sink to the still warm earth and make love. 
EXT. SOUDERSBURG CAFE – LANCASTER COUNTY – NIGHT 
ESTABLISHING an all-night cafe in the early hours of the morning. 
TIGHTENING to the bleakly lighted windows. 
INT. CARE 
A booth, where Schaeffer and McElroy and Fergie, a Lancaster County Undersheriff and his SHERIFF – an expansive politician type – are seated. 
The Undersheriff eyes Schaeffer narrowly. The Sheriff has a county map spread out on the table, amid breakfast dishes, pointing directions to Schaeffer: 
SHERIFF There... White Oak Road a couple of miles before it ties into two-twenty- two. Got it? 
SCHAEFFER Got it. We owe you one, Sheriff. 
SHERIFF My man Holmes here put it together. Fine officer, Chief. He spoke to the doctor at the hospital. 
SCHAEFFER Undersheriff Holmes and I have talked on the phone. (nods at Holmes) Good work. 
UNDERSHERIFF Sure you don't want us to post some backup units? 
SCHAEFFER If we need any help, we'll give you a shout. I'd like to slip in there quiet, then get out before we attract any attention. 
EXT. CAFE PORCH – DAY 
As Schaeffer and his men are climbing into their car. Holmes and the Sheriff watch after them. 
HOLMES Maybe I'll take a drive over that way. 
SHERIFF Let 'em be. It's their dirty laundry. 
But Holmes pauses to watch Schaeffer's car pull out. 
EXT. RURAL LANE – LANCASTER COUNTY – DAWN 
With the first light of dawn on the eastern horizon, Schaeffer's car approaches along the lane, pulls into the Lapp driveway and comes to a halt. 
In the b.g. we can make out the farmhouse and outbuildings. 
HOLD as Schaeffer, McElroy and Fergie step out of the car. They break out short-barreled twelve-gauge pumps, start TOWARD CAMERA, spreading out as they turn up the long driveway... figures of ominous intent striding through the misty dawn. 
ANGLE 
GOING WITH the trio of gunmen... McElroy, breath smoking in the chill, eyes the terrain: 
MCELROY Weird, man. No fuckin' electricity. What do you figure they plug all their shit into? 
SCHAEFFER They don't have any shit. 
INT. KITCHEN – DAWN 
Where Eli is getting into a heavy coat, preparing to go out... the remains of the hearty morning breakfast are on the table. Rachel is beginning the dishes. 
INT. BARN – DAWN 
Book and Samuel are starting the morning milking... 
INT. KITCHEN – DAWN 
Eli is preparing to extinguish the lamp when suddenly the kitchen door is kicked open and McElroy and Fergie weapons leveled, burst in. Eli reacts with angry shock as Schaeffer enters: Rachel is, for a moment, terrified. 
SCHAEFFER (to Fergie) Outside – (to Mac) Check out the rest of the house. 
He turns to Eli, who is standing in the middle of the room. 
Schaeffer flashes his badge: 
SCHAEFFER We're police officers. We're looking for a fugitive, John Book. He's living here? 
ELI I have nothing to say to you. Get out of my house! 
SCHAEFFER You speak English. Good. Now listen 
RACHEL (recovering) No, you listen. Get out! 
SCHAEFFER Lady, I'm here to help you. This man is very dangerous. An armed criminal. (ingratiating) He's got a gun, hasn't he? 
As he listens, tenses, hearing Fergie's feet in the fresh straw. 
Book eases back alongside Luke, waits. 
BACK TO FERGIE 
As he approaches Luke's stall, reaches for the gate-latch. 
BOOK – FLASH CUT 
As the gate swings open, Book shouts and gives Luke a whack on the back. The mule's pent-up nerves and feral energy explode in an horrendous SCREAM. 
FERGIE 
Bowled backwards by the rearing animal as the gate flies open, involuntarily FIRING, suddenly finding himself under the lethal hooves of a twelve-hundred pound beast. Staggering backwards, he SCREAMS, FIRES again, the load striking the mule in its heaving chest as a flailing hoof smashes into Fergie's head and the other hoof snaps his shotgun in half like a matchstick. 
BOOK 
As he slips out of the stall, ducks toward the rear of the barn. 
FERGIE 
Fallen, skull smashed... and now the dying Luke's legs buckle and he collapses atop Fergie. 
EXT. BARN – DAY 
McElroy standing still, shock-eyed, looking toward the sound of the shots. Then starting slowly forward. 
SCHAEFFER 
On the porch of the house, looking toward the barn. 
EXT. FIELD – DAY 
Some distance from the barn, Samuel's hearing the shots, stops dead in his tracks... the sound of the shots still REVERBERATING across the quiet fields. 
SAMUEL (stricken) Mr. Book? 
He hesitates, then turns, starts trotting back toward the barns. 
EXT. / INT. KITCHEN PORCH – DAY 
Rachel has moved into the open kitchen door, glances anxiously toward the barns. Starts out. Schaeffer pushes her back. 
SCHAEFFER Get back in there. 
RACHEL My son is out there! 
SCHAEFFER Nobody's going to hurt your son... 
EXT. BARN – DAY 
As McElroy, checking the safety on his twelve-gauge, steps into the barn. 
INT. BARN – DAY 
McElroy flattens himself against the wall, looks around fearfully. 
MCELROY (softly) Fergie? 
Only silence. 
EXT. FRONT PORCH – DAY 
Schaeffer staring toward the barn, SHOUTS: 
SCHAEFFER What the hell happened? 
He listens, hears nothing, snorts, starts toward the barn checking his gun, not hurrying. 
INT. KITCHEN – DAY 
Eli now seated at the table, holding a cloth to his head. 
Rachel at a window, peering out. Schaeffer on the porch 
EXT. FIELD – DAY 
Samuel running as fast as he can trips as he crosses a small muddy stream, falls full length, scrambles up, runs on. 
INT. BARN – DAY 
McElroy, moving very cautiously, comes around the mule stalls, stops short, stares off screen. 
HIS POV – FERGIE 
Where he lies half buried beneath the huge bulk of the mule, his head crushed like an eggshell. 
BACK TO MCELROY 
MCELROY 
FIRING AGAIN, then again. Emptying the gun, cursing as he begins to reload, gets to his feet, starts toward the ladder. The BELL still SOUNDING outside. The hood of the car SLOWLY POPS UP. 
ANGLE 
As McElroy wheels at the movement of the car's hood, FIRES twice. 
MCELROY'S POV – LAPP BUGGY 
The buckshot virtually blows the dashboard off. 
EXT. BARNYARD – DAY 
Samuel RINGING the bell. The bell rope is short, and so is Samuel and his feet go off the ground with every swing of the rockerarm. 
He hangs on grimly, his black hat clinging to the back of his head, his face set against the tears that move down his cheeks. 
SCHAEFFER 
Comes hesitantly down the path toward the barn, looking toward the sound of the bell, but also looking back in glances toward the house to make sure Rachel and Eli stay where they are. He still can't see Samuel. 
HIS POV – THE PORCH 
As Rachel starts off the porch, takes a few steps. 
SCHAEFFER 
Turning, SHOUTING: 
SCHAEFFER You stay put! 
RACHEL 
She stops. She is also unable to see Samuel. 
SCHAEFFER 
Moving out toward the barn, rounding a corner... and there is Samuel at the bellrope. He starts toward him. 
EXT. FIELDS – DAY 
Beyond Samuel, well out in the fields of the Stoltzfus farm, Stotlzfus and others – including Hochstetler and his brothers – are baling the first cutting of June hay. 
But the operation has come to a halt. All are looking in toward the Lapp farm, hearing the RINGING OF THE BELL (the Amish cry for help), wondering, hesitating. 
But now, as we watch, led by Hochstetler, they start in toward Samuel. 
EXT. BARNYARD – DAY 
As Schaeffer reaches Samuel, SHOUTS: 
SCHAEFFER Cut that out! 
Samuel looks at him, keeps on pulling. 
Schaeffer quickly crosses to him, grabs him by the back of the neck, tries to pull him off the bell rope. Samuel hangs on grimly. 
Schaeffer yanks hard, succeeds in yanking Samuel free, shoves him roughly aside. Then Schaeffer turns, FIRES a shotgun blast into the top of the bellrope. It still hangs by several threads, so he FIRES again. 
The rope drops to the ground. Schaeffer reloads, turns to look at Samuel, just getting to his feet. A moment... when Schaeffer, recognizing Samuel as the Amish kid who saw McElroy kill Zenovich, perhaps thinks of disposing of the witness right then and there. 
But a glance toward the oncoming Amish gives him pause. He SNARLS at Sam: 
SCHAEFFER Get down to the house and stay there! 
Samuel gets to his feet, turns, trots off. 
RACHEL 
Already halfway out to the barn, running to gather Sam in her arms... then to lead him back toward the house. 
SCHAEFFER 
Turning, starting very slowly toward the barn. 
INT. BARN – DAY 
McElroy at the top of the ladder, looking down. Then easing over, placing his feet on the rungs. 
BOOK 
He stands below in a cowpen, using the cows for cover. The cows stare balefully at him. A large goat nuzzles him, hooks at him with its horns. Book waits, watches. 
HIS POV – MCELROY 
Visible to his knees as he eases down the ladder. He stops at every rung to scrape his shoes free of the cowshit covering the rungs. 
BACK TO BOOK 
INT. BARN – DAY 
Schaeffer, easing toward the mule stalls, MUTTERS, CURSES under his breath. Then he rounds the corner of the first stall... and there is Fergie with Luke the mule on top of him. Schaeffer stares, blinks... moves on spotting a spent shotgun shell near the hayfork... 
INT. SILO – DAY 
Book listening at the kickboard. SOUNDS of feet, shotgun rattling against metal rungs, Book moves to the ladder on his side, starts silently up. 
MCELROY 
Climbing with difficulty, shotgun clutched in one hand. 
BOOK 
He climbs up to the second kickboard, pauses, checks the distance to the floor, starts upward again. 
BARN YARD – DAY 
The Amish beginning to arrive. Sam comes running, pulls Stoltzfus toward the door of the milkhouse as the other Amish look at the shot-shattered bellrope. Rachel and Eli come rapidly up the path toward the group. 
INT. BARN – DAY 
Schaeffer finds another spent shotgun shell, crosses to the ladder, looks down. He sets his shotgun down, takes out his service revolver, starts down. 
INT. SILO – DAY 
Book has reaches the third kickboard, about thirty feet from the ground. He checks it, turns the thumb-screws that hold it in place, places his hand on the handle, moves to one side as best he can... hangs there, listening. 
MCELROY 
Rattling up the other ladder, approaching the third kickboard. 
BOOK 
Listening tensely, hearing McElroy arrive on the other side of the kickboard. Then, deliberately, Book makes a fist, raps on the board smartly once. 
MCELROY 
Startled, REACTING. He sets his feet, leans back against the back wall of the ladder well, brings the shotgun up, puts the muzzle against the kickboard, clicks off the safety. 
BOOK 
We HEAR with him the thump of the muzzle, the CLICK... and, with marvelous speed, Book pulls the kickboard and drops it to the floor. 
McELROY – FLASH CUT Staring in, stun-eyed, already falling forward (having leaned his weight on the shotgun) as Book seizes the shotgun by the barrel, pulls inward. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As McElroy pitches forward through the opening, SCREAMS and GRABS as he plunges past Book. The shotgun FIRES as McElroy manages to hold onto Book, and both men plunge thirty feet to the bottom of the silo. 
BOOK 
He falls almost straight down, lands on his back, lies stunned. 
MCELROY 
His forward motion has carried him across the silo. His head bounds off the white brick wall about five feet up... and he falls in a heap, blood gushing from his head, as... 
TIGHT ON BOOK 
Blinking, groaning, just beginning to stir... and, suddenly, into the frame comes a hand with a pistol in it. The muzzle is placed firmly against Book's temple. 
WIDER 
Schaeffer holding the pistol. He cocks the pistol, tenses as if to FIRE (and he is actually about to)... when there is a SOUND behind him. He snaps around. 
WHAT HE SEES 
Old Stoltzfus and Samuel standing in the kickboard opening (Schaeffer having kicked the kickboard in when he heard the shot from within the silo). They stand solemnly, looking on as: 
SCHAEFFER 
He eases the hammer down on this pistol, speaks softly: 
SCHAEFFER Okay, Johnny. On your feet. 
THE SCENE 
As Book struggles to his feet – Schaeffer holding the pistol tight to Book's head. Book turns, sees Samuel and Stoltzfus, blinks. 
Schaeffer shoves Book toward the opening. As Book moves toward Samuel, he speaks quietly: 
BOOK It's okay, Sam. 
ANOTHER ANGLE 
As Book and McElroy move out of the silo, down the passageway toward the milkhouse, Stoltzfus and Sam (after a glance in at the inert McElroy) follow and... 
EXT. BARN – DAY 
