X-MEN ORIGINS: WOLVERINE 
Written by 
David Benioff & Skip Woods 
EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 
A two-lane road carves through an endless forest of towering black spruce. A flock of pintails skims over the treetops, heading south before the first snowfall. A young BOY (12), undersized and feral, trudges home, bookbag strapped to his back. Black-haired and pale-skinned, the boy looks as if he hasn't had a good meal in a long time. Before we hear anything the boy turns, watching the bend in the road behind him. After a moment we hear the thrum of a hard-charging engine. An Oldsmobile Super 88 rounds the bend, accelerating as it hits the straightaway. The boy steps away from the road but the car comes straight at him. The boy closes his eyes. The Oldsmobile's brakes clamp down on the wheels and the car shivers to a halt with inches to spare. Laughter spills from the car's open windows. Four HIGH SCHOOL LETTERMEN pile out of the car, wearing their leather-sleeved football jackets. GILMAN, the largest of the four, shakes his head and laughs. 
GILMAN Kid didn't even move. You see that? Where's your survival instincts, boy? The boy says nothing. He readjusts his bookbag and resumes his long walk northward. GILMAN (cont'd) Hey! Gilman grabs the boy's shoulder and spins him around- GILMAN (cont'd) The hell you going? You hear me talking to you? One of the other football players, MASON, walks over and inspects the boy's face. 
MASON This is the kid whose old man robbed the truck stop last year. Gilman curls his meaty hand around the back of the boy's neck and pulls him closer, scrutinizing him. The four lettermen tower over the small boy. I C_ONTTNTT f 1 
CONTINUED: 
GILMAN You the one with the convict daddy? The boy stares back at Gilman, unblinking. 
MASON That's him. 
GILMAN What's the matter, you about to piss your pants? Answer me. The boy says nothing, never looking away from the bully. Gilman presses his fist, adorned with a heavy class ring, against the.boy's cheek. GILMAN (cont'd) You a tough guy like your daddy? Gilman shoves the boy, forcing him to stumble backwards. The boy regains his balance, never taking his eyes off Gilman. GILMAN (cont'd) You want to play tough guy with me? Huh? Provoked by the boy's lack of fear, by the insolence of his stare, Gilman rears back and punches him in the face. The boy falls to the ground. Blood spills from a gash in his cheek where the class ring cut him. 
MASON (a ringside announcer) Right cross to the face... and he's down! The football players laugh, looking down at the fallen boy. The boy stands. There is still no sign of emotion on his face. No fear, no anger, no evident pain. 
GILMAN What's the matter? You want some more? The boy doesn't look away. The bully swings, cracking the boy in the side of the head, knocking him down again. GILMAN (cont'd) (to his friends) Let's get out of here. 
CONTTNTTF:T) I 
CONTINUED: (2) Walking back to the car, Mason slaps Gilman on the shoulder. 
MASON You gave that little pissant something to think about. Gilman grins and looks back at the boy, expecting him to be sprawled and crying on the ground. Instead the boy stands again, brushes the dirt off his shirt, and walks toward Gilman. 
GILMAN You got to be kidding me. I'm gonna knock the-- But Gilman's words die in his throat as he sees something impossible happening. The gash on the boy's cheek knits itself shut, leaving no sign of injury. Gilman is so shocked he doesn't see the boy's fist whizzing toward him, striking him in the nose. And then another punch. And then another. The boy is far smaller and weaker than Gilman, but he fights with a ferocity that seems inhuman, punching and kicking and headbutting, doing whatever it takes to fell his enemy. Gilman, stunned by the intensity of the assault, goes down, trying to protect his face from the blur of blows. Mason tries to pull the boy off his friend and suffers a bite to the hand. He howls with pain and backs off. The other two football players, amazed to see their leader getting pummeled by a boy half his size, watch in awe. The boy growls as he batters the bully. He grabs Gilman's collar and lifts the football player's head off the ground, prepared to deliver the coup de grace with his right fist. Three bone claws spring from the boy's hand, serrated and razor sharp. Everything stops. Mason, clutching his wounded hand, quits hollering and stares. The other two football players blink and slowly back away. Even Gilman, moaning on the ground, hushes and tries to crawl backwards, away from this beast on top of him. 
(("ONTTN11F.1)1 
CONTINUED: (3) But the boy is more shocked than-any of them. He stares with horror at the claws, this part of him he never knew existed. He stands and stumbles away from Gilman. Mason runs over, lifts his punch-drunk friend to his feet, and hustles him toward the Oldsmobile. The other football players pile in, slam the doors shut, and speed off, leaving the boy alone by the side of the road. The boy stares at his claws and for the first time we see fear in his eyes. He screams, a scream that echoes over the black spruce, into the darkening northern sky. 
INT. CABIN - MORNING 
LOGAN wakes. with a wordless shout, sitting upright, shirtless, in a bed covered with shredded bedsheets. KAYLA SILVERFOX (25) wraps her arms around him and whispers in his ear. 
KAYLA It's okay... shh... it's okay. Logan pants, chest heaving, eyes wild, gripping the tattered sheets in his fists. Kayla holds him tight until his bone claws retract. KAYLA (cont'd) I'm right here with you. Okay? I'm right here with you. Kayla, a full-blooded Innu, wears her long black hair pulled back in a ponytail. She's been sleeping in one of Logan's flannel shirts. KAYLA (cont'd) The war dreams or the one where you're a kid? Logan takes a deep breath, finally calming down. He relaxes into Kayla's arms. 
LOGAN The one where I'm a kid. Kayla runs her fingers through his thick hair, kissing his forehead. He sees that she has a small cut on her forearm. He takes her arm and looks at the wound. 
EXT. BEAK'S TRAILER - CONTINUOUS 
A towering figure in a long black coat looms beside the trailer's door. 
BEAK Show's over, pal. VICTOR CREED is shrouded in shadows, but when he grins his white fangs gleam. He drapes his arm around Beak and drags the birdman inside the trailer. 
VICTOR CREED Show's never over for you, freak.. 
INT. BEAK'S TRAILER - CONTINUOUS 
BEAK You want money? There's twenty bucks on the dresser. That's all I 
HAVE-- 
VICTOR CREED I just want to hear you talk a minute before I cut your lungs out. Creed shoves Beak back into his seat, picks up the bottle of bourbon, examines the label, and guzzles it. Beak opens his mouth but no words come out. Finally: 
(RONTTNTIED 
CONTINUED: 
BEAK You're the one that's been killing mutants. Creed wipes his lips with the back of his clawed hand. BEAK (cont'd) But you... you're one of us. 
VICTOR CREED Us? There's no us. There's you and there's me, and in a minute, just me. Creed smiles down at his feathered target. Beak tries to shield his body with his wings. 
BEAK Please... I never hurt anybody, my whole life... 
VICTOR CREED Let me show you how it's done. 
EXT. BEAK'S TRAILER - CONTINUOUS 
An awful, prolonged shriek escapes from the trailer. 
EXT. CABIN - DAY 
The small log cabin sits in a clearing in a jack pine forest. Winter has come to the north country; the ground and tree branches are covered with several inches of snow. Logan chops firewood behind the cabin, splitting the logs with expert axe strikes, smoking a cheap cigar. His nose wrinkles as he sniffs the air. 
LOGAN. Smells like government. Behind Logan, two approaching men in dark suits and black overcoats glance at each other. Logan, halving another block of wood, doesn't turn around. One of the newcomers, STRYKER, was a colonel in the Special Forces. He still has the look. His hair is cropped short, his bearing is military, and his blue eyes are fierce. f r_ONTTNTJF D 
CONTINUED: CHRISTOPH NORD, A.K.A. AGENT ZERO, looks more like a death row convict than a military man. A family of tattooed spiders walk down his neck. 
STRYKER 
(SMILING) I even showered today. Logan turns, the axe gripped in his hand. STRYKER (cont'd) Been a long time, Logan. You haven't aged a day. Everyone else gets old and gray, but not you. 
LOGAN How'd you find me? 
CONTINUED: An eighteen-wheel flatbed loaded with trimmed logs blocks the road. Men in reflective vests stand on the flatbed, securing the load with chains. Kayla hits the brakes and checks-her watch. She's late. She taps the horn. A FOREMAN ambles over to her, in no particular rush. 
FOREMAN Can't move the truck till the load's tied down. 
KAYLA Please? I'm already late. 
FOREMAN Not gonna happen, ma'am... The foreman thinks about it, sighs, and changes his tune. FOREMAN (cont'd) (yelling to truck driver) Hey Zeke! Pull this mother over. Lady's got to get through. Moments later the truck rolls forward, enabling Kayla to scoot through in her pickup. She toots her horn and waves. 
KAYLA Thanks, fellas. 
EXT. TIMBER STAND - MORNING 
Logan and three other lumberjacks-- PHELAN, MARCUSE, and VAN MIER-- tramp through the woods towards their designated area, carrying their chainsaws and helmets. Phelan, whiskey-bellied and flushed from the exertion, has fallen behind. 
PHELAN You all want to ease the pace a little bit? Trees ain't going anywhere. Logan, in the lead, stares at a crude smiley face carved into a tall pine tree. His gaze travels from the carving to something sitting on the forest floor. (CON'TNt1F.n I 
lB. 
CONTINUED: PHELAN (cont'd) What you got there? The other lumberjacks gather around Logan. A severed bear's head, haloed by buzzing flies, rots in the sun. PHELAN (cont'd) Goddamn. 
VAN MIER Hunter? 
MARCUSE Why would a hunter leave the head? 
LOGAN Bullet didn't kill this bear. 
(BEAT) Claws did. 
INT. TRUCK - MORNING 
Kayla sings along with the tape on the tape deck. 
KAYLA Lolly Lolly Lolly get your adverbs here, Lolly Lolly Lolly got some adverbs here, Come on down to Lolly's get the adverbs here... Rounding a corner on the narrow access road, Kayla nearly collides with a man in a long black coat. She slams on the brakes and the truck shudders to a halt. The man's back is turned to the truck, his head bowed. His hair hangs below his shoulders, clotted with dirt, as if he's been sleeping in the woods for weeks. Kayla leans out of the open truck window. Before she can speak, the man in the long black coat turns. It's not just his size that frightens us, though the man is massive. It's not just the four-inch-long black talons curling from his fingertips, or the gleaming fangs he licks as he smiles at her. What terrifies us most are his eyes. They are a shark's eyes, black and loveless and utterly inhuman. f CONTTNT1FD' 
CONTINUED: Victor Creed walks toward the truck. He scrapes his talons over the hood: screeeeee. Five parallel gashes now scar the hood, carved straight through the steel. 
EXT. TIMBER STAND - CONTINUOUS 
Logan, hearing a noise the other men can't, rises from his crouch. He looks to the west, listening carefully. 
PHELAN What's the matter-- Logan holds up a hand: quiet. He hears a distant scream. A. voice he knows better than any other. He runs, leaving his astonished co-workers behind. No one can run through the woods faster than Logan and'Logan has never needed to run faster. He vaults fallen trees, ducks under branches, accelerates when he hits the access road. 
EXT. ACCESS ROAD - MINUTES LATER 
Logan sees the pickup truck in the distance. Even a hundred yards away he can tell that something is.wrong. It seems impossible that he could run any faster, but now he does, reaching the truck in seconds. He sees the claw marks gouged through the steel hood. He sees.the driver's side door tossed onto the asphalt twenty yards. from the truck. And finally he sees Kayla, curled in the fetal position on the side of the access road. Blood puddles beneath her. Her skin has already begun to lose its 'color. He runs to her, kneels beside her body, hands checking for a pulse, listening for breath, trying desperately to find any sign of life in her lifeless form. 
HINES We've never conducted any animal 
TESTING-- 
STRYKER No other animal would survive the experiment. 
INT. SURGICAL PREP ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Logan, wearing a hospital-style robe, stands by the closed door. No other human could hear the conversation down the hallway. Logan catches every word. 
HINES (O.S.) He might not, either. There's a significant chance the procedure will kill him. (C_l)NTTNTTFn ) 
CONTINUED: 
STRYKER (O.S.) Correct. Some experiments succeed, some fail. That's why we call them "experiments." 
INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 
STRYKER The man's well-being is not my concern. Proving that the science works-- that's what matters. Hines does not relish confrontation and she's afraid of Stryker. But she gives it one more try. 
HINES Sir... I took the Hippocratic Oath. I swore I'd never intentionally harm another human being. Stryker turns on Hines, jabbing his finger at her. 
STRYKER You also swore. to protect your nation. You remember that oath, Lieutenant Hines? 
HINES Yes sir, but I don't understand why- 
STRYKER I don't need you to understand. I need you to follow orders. Stryker continues down the corridor, leaving Hines standing alone in the fluorescent light. 
INT. SURGICAL PREP ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
Hines enters the room to find Logan sitting on the examining table, paging through a magazine. He smiles up at her. 
LOGAN You ready for me, Doc? 
INT. SURGICAL THEATER - LATER 
Hines and two MEDICAL TECHNICIANS accompany Logan to a water- filled plexiglass tank the size of a lidless coffin. 
((Y)NTTN1WS) ) 
CONTINUED: An array of stainless-steel machines crowds around the tank, including a series of robotic arms that taper into foot-long needles. One wall of the theater is glass. Behind the glass is the control room, where Stryker looks on, hands behind his back. Dr. Cornelius and several SUPPORT STAFF enter data into computers monitoring the experiment. Logan removes his robe and hands it to Hines before stepping into the tank of water. 
LOGAN See you on'the other side. One of the technicians fastens a breathing tube, connected to an oxygen tank, to Logan's mouth. Logan lies down, submerging himself in the cold water. The technician clamps Logan's wrists and ankles into place with stainless-steel shackles bolted to the plexiglass walls. Logan's eyes are open as he watches the robotic arms swivel into place, poised above him like a gang of metal vipers. 
INT. CONTROL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 
GENERAL MUNSON I We tried to use that stuff for tank armor. Too damn expensive. 
STRYKER It took us three years to prepare enough alloy for the skeleton. 
GENERAL MUNSON So if this works, I guess Weapon X won't be walking through any metal detectors. 
STRYKER If this works, General, Weapon X will walk wherever he wants. 
INT. SURGICAL THEATER - CONTINUOUS 
Logan spasms in the tank like a man being electrocuted. 
HINES (O.S.) Heart rate one ninety. 
CORNELIUS (O.S.) Density? 
TECHNICIAN #2 (O.S.) Four four seven. CLOSE on Logan's clenched eyelids and CLOSER still, entering the mind of the tortured man. Horrific images flicker past, selected traumas from a deeply traumatic life. Logan cradles the lifeless body of Kayla Silverfox. The feral boy stares at his monstrous claws and howls. Logan (looking identical in age to the man we've been following) stands in a village in Vietnam as bamboo huts-burn around him. 
INT. CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
GENERAL MUNSON How long before he's mission operative? 
STRYKER Remains to be seen. We're in uncharted territory here. 
GENERAL MUNSON Uncharted territory is a pretty good description of your budget, Colonel. This doesn't work, you can kiss the Eleven good-bye. 
STRYKER We need the Eleven. Our victory in the war to come depends on it. 
GENERAL MUNSON Not everyone in the Pentagon thinks there's gonna be a war. Stryker turns and fixes his gaze on the general. 
STRYKER Oh, it's coming, General. The enemy walks among us. We'd better be prepared. 
INT. SURGICAL THEATER - CONTINUOUS 
Logan thrashes in the tank, his convulsions increasingly violent, his eyes rolling back in their sockets. The water in the tank begins to steam. The reel of blood-stained images from Logan's past continues. A bull-necked man beats the feral boy with an axe handle. 
HINES (O.S.) Body temperature one zero eight. Heart rate two ten. Sir-- A dying Russian lies on his back on a dock in Odessa, staring at the sky, his shirt punctured with three precise holes. Logan stares down at him, bone claws extended. (CONTTNi1FT)1 
CONTINUED: 
STRYKER (O.S.) He's a warrior, Hines. He can handle it. Victor Creed plunges his clawed hand into Logan's gut. 
CORNELIUS (O.S.) Density? 
TECHNICIAN #2 (O.S.) Probe rejected, sir. 
Logan slashes through the locks of the steel-reinforced theater door. He charges out of the room. 
INT. CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
For a moment there is silence in the control room. 
GENERAL MUNSON I take it this is still part of the plan, Colonel? 
STRYKER He's got nowhere to run. Closed circuit monitors show Logan running down a tunnel. STRYKER (cont'd) The only exit is a 25 ton blast door. It was built to withstand a nuclear detonation. 
INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS 
Logan hurries down a long tunnel hewn through solid rock, leaving a trail of watery footprints. He stops in front of the battleship-steel door at the end of the tunnel. Growling, he carves through the door as if it were cardboard. 
INT. CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
The savaged blast door flickers on the monitors. Logan Is free. The general stares at Stryker. Stryker licks his lips. 
STRYKER (to Agent Zero) Alert the containment team. Bring him back. (( r)NTTNTJF.J) ) 
CONTINUED: 
AGENT ZERO Bagged or breathing? 
STRYKER Either way. Just bring him back. 
EXT. ALKALI LAKE - NIGHT 
A full moon shines down on the frozen landscape. Logan has exited the Alkali Lake complex beyond the high walls of the compound. The lake itself shimmers in the moonlight. Logan stares at the lonely moon. A wolf howls in the distance. His breath rises above him in the cold air; his wet hair freezes. Ignoring the gusting wind and bitter chill, he runs through the snow toward the distant woods. 
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 
Logan runs. Pine trees tower above him. He enters a clearing where the virgin snow glitters beneath the moon. He stops moving and peers through the darkness. He smells something coming closer. A pack of GRAY WOLVES emerges from the woods, surrounding Logan. Snow dusts their fur. They look hungry, their blue eyes unblinking as they watch this pale interloper. The LEADER OF THE PACK, a muscular brute far bigger than his comrades, snarls at Logan. Logan stares back at the wolf. The wolf jumps at Logan, fangs bared, aiming for the man's throat. Logan sidesteps and the wolf hurtles past, skidding on the snow when he lands. Logan and the wolf circle each other, looking for weakness. The wolf gnashes its wet teeth and pounces again. Man and beast battle in the moonlight, a shadowy combat of ferocious velocity, of gleaming fangs and gray fur. The wolf lunges for Logan's throat again, but this time Logan catches the wolf in one hand and slams it to the snow. The wolf, desperate to escape, rakes Logan's arm with his claws. Logan ignores the bloody welts. rC)NTTNTTF.T) ) 
CONTINUED: His face is close to the wolf's face and they stare into each other's eyes, predator to predator. Snikt! Logan presses the claws of his left hand to the wolf's throat. The wolf quits fighting, mewling submissively. He goes slack in Logan's grip, rolling over to signal surrender. Logan stands over the newly-subservient alpha wolf. The other wolves in the pack stare at the strange champion. Intense light shines on Logan's face. He turns and sees that he's surrounded by a dozen SOLDIERS wearing tactical armor. Powerful flashlights are mounted to the barrels of their guns, which are pointed at Logan. The wolves flee, dodging through the pines, their paws kicking up snow. 
SOLDIER #1 Put your hands in the air! 
INT. CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT 
Stryker and the others are able to watch Logan in action, as night-vision security cameras mounted in the trees beam a constant live feed back to monitors in the control room. 
STRYKER These soldiers are the creme de la creme. They're equipped to handle the situation. 
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT 
LOGAN Sorry... It's a little cold out there. 
JAMES HUDSON Uh huh. It's the middle of January and you got no clothes on. 
LOGAN That's probably it. 
(CFNTTNEWF ) 
CONTINUED: Hudson sighs and lowers his shotgun. 
JAMES HUDSON You're not on the drugs, are you? 
LOGAN No sir. 
JAMES HUDSON Just had a rough night? 
LOGAN Pretty rough, yeah. 
JAMES HUDSON All right, come on. I got some old clothes'll probably fit you. He turns and Logan begins covering strategic places with wads of straw. JAMES HUDSON (cont'd) I'll take you around back so my wife don't see you again. 
LOGAN Sorry if I scared her. 
JAMES HUDSON Scared her? 
(SNORTS) I'm not worried about you scaring her. 
INT. KITCHEN - DAY 
Logan sits at the breakfast table with James and Heather. He wears an old plaid shirt, dungarees, and a pair of scuffed work boots. A heaping breakfast lies before him: scrambled eggs, pork sausages, pancakes with maple syrup, a steaming mug of coffee. Logan devours everything in front of him, looking up only to nod in thanks as Heather scoops more food onto his plate. 
JAMES HUDSON You mind if I ask where you came running from? r()NTTNITF.n ) 
CONTINUED: 
HEATHER HUDSON Jimmy. Let the boy eat. Logan piles eggs onto a slice of buttered toast. 
JAMES HUDSON I'm just wondering. We're twenty miles from town. It's a miracle you didn't get hypothermia out there. 
LOGAN I've got good circulation. (gesturing toward barn) Nice chopper you got out there, by the way. James's face lights up. Logan has found the man's passion., 
JAMES HUDSON You know motorcycles? 
LOGAN What is it, '48 Panhead? 
JAMES HUDSON Best bike Harley-Davidson ever made. First one with a seventy-four- cubic inch engine, hydraulic valve lifters, aluminum heads-- Heather stands to clear the plates. 
Agent Zero grabs an Atchisson assault shotgun from a rack behind his seat that holds an impressive array of weaponry. He lowers the passenger window and gets a bead on Logan, who swerves to keep himself (and his more fragile motorcycle) a tricky target. 
EXT. COUNTY ROAD - DAY 
Agent Zero fires six shells in rapid succession. Hundreds of steel pellets scream over the motorcycle, perforating the face of a smiling farmer on a fertilizer billboard. Logan turns and sees the SUV closing on him. Agent Zero rams the bumper into the Harley and Logan very nearly loses control, managing to right the bike at the last second. 
( C'ONTTNTIRF 1 
CONTINUED: Logan accelerates and opens up thirty yards of breathing room. He turns and sees Agent Zero catching up again. Logan clamps on the brakes, hard. He holds out his left hand and extends his claws. The tips of the blades scrape the asphalt and sparks fly. The SUV cannot brake in time. As it hurtles past the motorcycle, Logan's claws hit the SUV's front tire and shred it instantly. A split-second later he shreds the rear tire. The SUV totters, falls to its side, and barrel rolls across the empty road. It ends up on its roof in a drainage ditch, wheels still spinning in the air. Logan turns his bike and pulls up next to the upended SUV. He lowers the kickstand, stands, and walks to the driver's side. Agent Zero, bloodied and dazed, has managed to push open the door. He leans out and aims his shotgun at Logan, who slices the weapon into four pieces with a sweep of his claws. Logan grabs Agent Zero by the back of the neck and hauls him out of the car. 
LOGAN Those were good people back there. Innocent people. Agent Zero surreptitiously pulls a commando knife from a sheath on his ankle. 
AGENT ZERO You ever notice good people tend to die when they spend time with you? He swings the knife at the side of Logan's neck.`Logan catches Agent Zero's wrist and slams it against the door frame. Agent Zero drops the knife with a pained smile. He didn't think that would work. AGENT ZERO (cont'd) Maybe you should stick with the bad people. We're more your speed. 
LOGAN I got a message for your boss. 
(C'_ONTTNTTF.T) I 
CONTINUED: (2) 
AGENT ZERO 
(SMIRKING) Yeah? Tell me. The smirk fades from Zero's face as he sees the adamantium claws plunging toward his heart. 
EXT. GAS STATION - DAY 
Logan stands at a pay phone beside the Texaco station, watching a couple of SKATEBOARD PUNKS practice their ollies. He punches in a number and waits for the connection. 
OPERATOR (O.S.) Department of Agriculture. 
LOGAN Get me the Pest Control Division. 
OPERATOR (O.S.) I'm sorry, sir, there is no Pest Control Division. 
LOGAN Why don't you get 'em anyway. And tell 'em Logan's calling. While he waits he watches one of the kids attempt a backside tailslide on the curb. The kid loses his balance and wipes out, skinning his palms on the asphalt. 
STRYKER (O.S.) Where are you? 
LOGAN (controlled fury) You shouldn't have killed those people. All they were doing was helping a stranger. 
INT. STRYKER'S OFFICE - DAY 
Stryker sits behind the desk of his office. His aide, COLLINS, stands on the other side of the desk, listening in on an extension. 
STRYKER You ran on me, goddamnit. We had a deal. Now you get back to base-- 
CUT TO: Ninna the ring-tailed lemur mewls softly, trying to hide herself deep within the baobab tree as her human friend 
SCREAMS. 
EXT. LAS VEGAS STRIP - NIGHT 
Logan, riding James Hudson's vintage motorcycle, rolls down the famous strip, lit by the mammoth neon signs above him. He stops at a red light and stares at the lonely moon rising over the desert. 
LADY OF THE NIGHT (O.S.) You look like a man who could use a night off. (C fNTTNTTRT)1 
CONTINUED: Logan turns to look at a REDHEAD in a tight silver dress, waiting at the light in her Cadillac convertible. She looks like she's expensive, and she looks like she'd be worth it. 
LOGAN You're way out of my league, darlin'. 
LADY OF THE NIGHT You never know. You looking for a good time with a bad woman? Logan smiles and shakes his head. 
LOGAN Not tonight. The redhead purses her lips. 
LADY OF THE NIGHT You don't know what you're missing. Logan revs his engine as the light changes. 
LOGAN I know exactly what I'm missing. The courtesan waits at the green light,. watching Logan speed off into the night - 
EXT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
In a seedy part of town, far from the casinos' bright lights, Logan walks through the front door of a rundown boxing gym. 
INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT 
Even at this hour the gym is packed with aspiring PUGILISTS. Las Vegas has become the Mecca of world boxing, and many 'of the fighters here exhibit impressive skills as they batter the heavy bag, tap at the speed bag, and jump rope. Logan walks toward a ring in the center of the gym. Two young BOXERS inside the ropes, wearing headgear and sparring gloves, dance around throwing quick jabs that don't land. JOHN WRAITH (45) stands outside the ring, watching this action with evident distaste. He wears a black cowboy hat, sunglasses, and a handlebar mustache. He has the swagger and drawl of a rodeo cowboy. 
! ('ONTTNTTF.T) ) 
CONTINUED: 
WRAITH This is a contact sport, ladies. If you don't like hitting people, try golf. Logan comes up behind Wraith, unseen by the Texan.. 
LOGAN You talk tough for a guy who always let me do the dirty work. A slow smile creases Wraith's face. He turns. 
WRAITH Look at this. You never get old, do you? The two men'embrace. There is genuine affection here, the camaraderie of men who have fought together, bled together. WRAITH (cont'd) Nobody followed you? 
LOGAN You tryin' to insult me? 
WRAITH Can't be too careful, brother. I've been retired five years I still check under the car every time I drive. 
LOGAN I'm looking for Victor Creed. Wraith's face goes serious at the mention of the name. He looks around the gym, making sure no one's watching them. He glances at the boxers in the ring, who lean on the ropes and breathe heavily, awaiting instructions. 
LOGAN Help me find him. 
WRAITH He's a hard cat to track. 
LOGAN Just tell me where to start looking. I'll do the rest. Wraith taps the bottleneck, considering. 
WRAITH Might want to talk to his friends from the ultramax. 
LOGAN The prison he busted out of? 
WRAITH 
(NODDING) Feds built it to hold the baddest of the bad mutants. Worked pretty well. Only problem-- now they all know each other. 
(BEAT) You ever hear of a guy named Fred J. Dukes? 
LOGAN Nope. 
WRAITH People call him the Blob. You find him, you'll know why. Got out of the hoosegow a few months ago. Went home to Iowa. Town called Elgin. 
LOGAN You think he's still in touch with Creed? f C_ONTTNTIRT)1 
CONTINUED: (3) Wraith leans back in his chair and allows himself another slow smile. 
WRAITH I bet you'll find out. 
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 
Logan, on his Harley, speeds past a welcome sign for Elgin, Iowa, Population 676. 
EXT. ROADSIDE MOTEL - NIGHT 
The neon Vacancy sign shines, a beacon for tired travellers in the heartland. 
INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 
Logan lies on top of the bed covers, hands behind his head. The lights are out and Fox News plays on the television, casting the small room in blue light. 
INSERT TELEVISION A REPORTER stands in a Detroit alleyway as POLICE OFFICERS in the background cordon off the area from ONLOOKERS. 
REPORTER This is the 13th confirmed mutant slaying of the last two months, and with the investigation apparently stalled, members of the mutant community are voicing their outrage. A YOUNG WOMAN wearing a "Mutants are Humans, Too" t-shirt speaks passionately for the camera. 
YOUNG WOMAN Of course there's bias at work here. If these were normal people getting. chopped up, you better believe there'd be an FBI Task Force investigating, there'd be all sorts of resources allocated to find this killer. Why is it that when violence is done to our community, the nation turns its back? 
(MORE) 
FRED J. DUKES You ever been to Superior? 
LOGAN The club for mutants? Down in New Orleans? 
FRED J. DUKES Creed likes to party down there. Talked about it all the time-- how hot the girlies were. That's all I know. Logan shaves Dukes' jaw with the edge of his claw. 
LOGAN Nah. You know more than that. Dukes tilts his face, trying to keep his face from getting scraped off. 
FRED J. DUKES Joint's owned by a guy named Barbarus. Shared a cell with Creed in the ultramax. Anyone knows where to find him, it's Barbarus. Logan stares into the Blob's face, gauging the man's words. 
LOGAN He better be there, Freddie. And he better know something good. 
(MORE) ( r'nNT T NT TF.n ) 
CONTINUED: (4) LOGAN (cont'd) 'Cause I'm in a mood for violence and you're way too big to hide. 
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 
Stryker stands by a window-overlooking Alkali Lake while General Munson sits at the head of the conference table. 
STRYKER we have information that he was in Las Vegas two nights ago. We'll find him soon. 
GENERAL MUNSON This is turning into a goddamn disaster, Colonel. 
STRYKER I disagree. I'd say the experiment has been a success. 
GENERAL MUNSON Success? Are you kidding me? 
STRYKER Weapon X is a prototype. Nothing more. He's the walking proof that enhanced skeletons are viable. That, along with the healing factor we've replicated from his blood, will insure that the Eleven is capable of protecting our species from extinction. 
(BEAT) At this point, Logan is merely an inconvenience. He won't be for long. 
GENERAL MUNSON I'm sorry, William. I've lost confidence in your leadership. I'm going to recommend your dismissal to the Joint Chiefs. Stryker stares out the window at the distant lake, with no visible reaction to the General's words. 
STRYKER Disappointing, General. Expected, but still... disappointing. 
I CONTTN:]M ) 
CONTINUED: General Munson takes a sip of water from the glass in front of him. 
GENERAL MUNSON I know you believe in what you're doing. But I don't. War with the mutants is not inevitable. The general coughs. He begins to look confused as he coughs again, his breathing gone suddenly ragged. He clutches at his chest. A thin smile curls Stryker's lips. He turns to regard the General. 
STRYKER You're having a massive heart attack, sir. Leading cause of death for men in your age bracket. The general gasps for air, trying to rise to his feet. In his death throes, he knocks the glass of water from the table. It shatters on the floor. STRYKER.(cont'd) The war is coming. It's time to choose sides. The general collapses-and Stryker stands above him, staring down at the dying man with pitiless eyes. STRYKER (cont'd) You chose treason. 
EXT. CLUB SUPERIOR - NIGHT 
LOGAN I came back. Where is he? 
BARBARUS Somewhere in America. Doing what he does best. 
LOGAN What's that? 
BARBARUS Putting people's insides on the outside. 
LOGAN He's killing mutants, bub. Barbarus smiles, twenty fingers drumming on the table top. 
BARBARUS Some mutants need killing. 
LOGAN You got that right. Snikt! Barbarus shoves his girlfriend out of the way and stands, unsheathing three more black commando knives from his belt. The other MUTANTS quiet down, watching the fireworks. Barbarus swings, the four knives whistling through the air. Logan ducks under them and continues to bob and weave as Barbarus advances behind a whirlwhind of black steel. Logan slashes and one severed hand falls to the ground. Barbarus howls, stabbing at Logan with his three good arms. Logan's claws flash through the air again, and another neatly severed hand lands on the table. Logan retracts his claws and curls one finger: come at me. Barbarus, shamed and furious, gathers himself and charges. Logan times his punch perfectly, pivoting on the ball of his foot and hitting Barbarus with an uppercut that sounds like a well-hit baseball. Barbarus crashes to the floor. Pantera hisses and pounces at Logan, her black claws aimed at his face. Logan backhands her. She hits the floor and slides across the hardwood. C_nWTTAATFT) 
CONTINUED: (2) Logan kneels beside Barbarus. LOGAN (cont'd) You want to keep your other hands? Where is he? Blood dribbles from Barbarus's lip. He spits out a tooth. 
BARBARUS He don't sent me postcards. 
LOGAN No? Way I hear it, you two were practically boyfriends before he busted out. 
BARBARUS Busted out? 
(LAUGHING) You been misinformed. Victor Creed got himself a government pardon. Some fellas from the Department of Agriculture came and picked him up. 
LOGAN You're lying to me. Barbarus grins, his teeth red from the blood in his mouth. 
BARBARUS No, sir. But somebody is. 
INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT 
A five-story concrete parking structure on the edge of Las Vegas. John Wraith walks to his black.'68 Mustang, whistling a Jerry Jeff Walker song. When he gets to the car he drops to the floor and checks the underbody for bombs. Nothing down there. He stands, reaching into his pocket for his keys. 
VICTOR CREED (O.S.) You think I'd use a bomb on you, Johnny Boy? Wraith spins around. Victor Creed sits on a concrete parapet, the desert wind blowing his filthy blonde hair. He hops off the parapet and walks toward Wraith. 
(COWTNIIEFL 1 
CONTINUED: VICTOR CREED (cont'd) It's all about human contact for me. Wraith quickly unlocks the car door and get in. He slips the key into the ignition. The engine turns on the first try. Wraith hits the gas and the Mustang squeals out in reverse. He slams on the brakes, shifts into drive, and guns the car right at Creed. An instant before impact, Creed sidesteps the car and punches through the driver's window. It's a miracle of a punch, timed perfectly, a crushing shot to Wraith's jaw. Wraith loses control. of the car and it sideswipes a parked Hummer, spinning to a stop against a concrete wall. Wraith blinks and tries to clear his head. Creed reaches inside the broken window and hauls the Texan out. He lifts the bleeding man into the air and flashes his white fangs. VICTOR CREED (cont'd) Hear you been talking out of school. 
WRAITH He'll find you. 
VICTOR CREED That's the plan. It's a lot easier than finding him. Creed slams Wraith against the concrete wall and plunges his claws deep into Wraith's gut. The Texan's mouth opens as the full force of the pain hits him. Creed whispers in his ear. VICTOR CREED (cont'd) I can feel your spine, Johnny Boy. A sickening crunch as vertebrae are crushed like walnut shells. VICTOR CREED (cont'd) Never knew you had one. Creed drops Wraith's body to the ground. 
INT. HINES' HOUSE - NIGHT 
Carol Hines, the Army surgeon last seen in Alkali Lake, unlocks her front door and steps inside her house. she looks exhausted, with deep circles under her eyes. She puts her keys and the mail on a table by the door and then looks up, startled, when she hears SHRIEKING. Hines, very nervous, advances into the dark kitchen. She flicks on the lights. A red kettle on the stove top whistles. A mug waits on the counter. Hines, mystified, turns off the burner. 
STRYKER Good. 
CORNELIUS Sir... Lieutenant Hines hasn't reported to base today. 
STRYKER Hines? 
(C_ONTT1 TIED 1 
CONTINUED: Stryker considers the information for a moment and nods. STRYKER (cont'd) All right, thank you, Doctor. (glancing at case) What's this? Cornelius sets the case on the table and opens it. Six gleaming, armor-piercing bullets rest in green felt niches. 
CORNELIUS We saved the leftover adamantium from the Weapon X procedure. Stryker plucks one of the bullets from its niche and rolls it between his fingers, examining it with a practiced eye. CORNELIUS (cont'd) Each one's got a high-explosive core. Two in the head and Logan's brain will have to regenerate from scratch. 
STRYKER They won't kill him? 
CORNELIUS According to the computer models we ran, there's a 30 percent chance his healing factor will reconstitute the gray matter. But those synaptic bridges that form our memories? Gone. If he survives, his brain will come back fresh. 
STRYKER A blank slate... easy to train. Stryker fondles the shining bullet lovingly. STRYKER (cont'd) She's a pretty little thing. 
CORNELIUS She ought to be. That's the world's most expensive bullet. Stryker pulls a revolver from his shoulder holster, dumps the standard rounds, and begins loading the adamantium bullets. (rfNTTN11F.T 1 
I 
CONTINUED: (2) CORNELIUS (cont'd) There's another way, a more reliable way, to break down his memory. 
STRYKER Mm? 
CORNELIUS Only problem is, the procedure can only be done here at Alkali Lake. Stryker swings the chamber shut and holsters his gun. 
STRYKER Oh, he's coming back, Doctor. We have what he's looking for. 
EXT. ALKALI LAKE - DAY 
Hines, driving an old Ford, pulls up.to the guard house at the perimeter of the compound. A YOUNG SENTRY salutes her. 
YOUNG SENTRY Morning, Lieutenant. Hines smiles brightly, trying to hide her nervousness. 
HINES Good morning! The sentry looks into the car's cabin. The passenger seat is empty. The back seat is empty. 
YOUNG SENTRY Could you pop the trunk for me? 
HINES The trunk? 
YOUNG SENTRY Yes, ma'am. It's all standard procedure but Hines is close to panicking. She opens the glove compartment and hits the trunk release. The sentry inspects the trunk... nothing but a coil of rope and a roll of electrical tape. He slams the trunk door. YOUNG SENTRY (cont'd) You have a good day. 
(C'NNTTNTTHN 1 
HINES Welcome to Weapon Eleven. 
LOGAN 
(STUNNED) I thought it was just gonna be one guy. This is... 
HINES Ten thousand. They reach the cavern floor and walk amongst the Eleven. HINES (cont'd) Stryker says mutants and humans will fight a war soon. (gesturing to Weapon XI) This is his army. The camera glides over the isolation tanks as Hines continues to speak. We catch glimpses of the ELEVEN inside, comatose soldiers with needles and wires protruding from their skin, exactly like Logan during the Weapon X procedure. The men all look identical and they all look oddly familiar. HINES (cont'd) They incorporate the most successful features of the previous Weapons. Enhanced skeletons, heightened senses, healing factor-- f r0NTTNTTF.T) I 
CONTINUED: (2) Logan stops beside one tank and looks at the man inside, who floats in his chemical sleep. His eyes widen when he realizes what he's looking at. 
LOGAN It's Creed... He looks inside another tank. Same cruel face, same powerful body. Only their shaved heads distinguish them from Victor Creed. LOGAN (cont'd) They're all Creed. 
HINES Stryker's most successful mutant hunter. They cloned him years ago. 
(BEAT) The Colonel's been planning this for a long time. _ Logan walks through the midst of this vast, sleeping army, surrounded by ten thousand replicas of his worst enemy. 
LOGAN They get into the world, it's genocide. 
HINES I think that's the general idea. Logan stops in mid--stride, head raised in the manner of a hunting dog who has just caught wind of his prey. HINES (cont'd) What's the matter? Logan moves, walking quickly, nearly knocking over a technician entering data into one of the stasis pods. 
TECHNICIAN Hey... Hines hurries after Logan, smiling apologetically at the annoyed technician. 
HINES Where you going? Logan never turns. f rONTTNUT n % 
CONTINUED: (3) 
LOGAN Don't follow me. Hines stops, standing alone in the middle of the Eleven. 
INT. HALLWAY - DAY 
Logan walks rapidly down the hallway, his pace accelerating as he nears a closed doorway. He rests his head against the door for a moment before putting his hand on the knob and entering the room. 
INT. STRYKER'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 
Stryker sits behind his desk, smiling at Logan. But Logan's not looking at the colonel. He's looking at the young woman who sits across from Stryker, her back to the door. She doesn't turn. Her long black hair cascades down her back. 
STRYKER Hello, old friend. We've been waiting for you. Logan walks toward the desk, slowly now, a man in a nightmare he can't wake from. STRYKER (cont'd) Did you really think we just let you walk away three years ago? You're a dangerous man, my friend. We like to keep an eye on dangerous men. When Logan reaches the young woman he puts his hand on her shoulder. Kayla Silverfox turns and stares up at him, tears streaming down her face. 
KAYLA I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. An aluminum baseball bat whirs through the air, smashing the back of Logan's head. Logan falls to the floor, unconscious. Victor Creed stands above him, staring at the flattened barrel of the baseball bat. f nNTTNITFT)1 
CONTINUED: 
VICTOR CREED Man's got a hard head. 
STRYKER 
LOGAN You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away. 
KAYLA I'm a good actress. 
LOGAN No one's that good. (C ONTTN1TF.f ) 
CONTINUED: 
STRYKER Everybody's a sucker for something. Figuring out what it is, that's the trick. For you, it's a woman's love. An easy weakness to forgive. But still a weakness. Stryker signals to Cornelius. The doctor and his assistant attach a nasty-looking copper halo to Logan's skull. The halo is wired to the electric chair. Logan never takes his eyes off Silverfox. STRYKER (cont'd) Don't be angry at her. She was just serving her country, keeping the mutant menace in check. She and victor have been a real credit to their race. It takes Logan a moment to understand this comment. 
LOGAN You're a mutant? 
KAYLA My Daddy found out when I was twelve. Said a freak like me deserved whatever I got. 
VICTOR CREED My kind of guy. 
STRYKER She's a gifted girl. She can plant thoughts in anyone's mind, make them believe what she wants-- as long as she stays focused on them. He strokes her long dark hair, proud of his protege. Kayla doesn't seem thrilled by Stryker's touch, but she endures it. STRYKER (cont'd) A useful tool in a seduction. 
KAYLA (to Logan) Spent so much time getting you to love me, by the time the Colonel showed up I couldn't get you to leave me. (r0N'rTN1 F.n 1 
CONTINUED: (2) Dr. Cornelius finishes calibrating his machine and adjusting the halo brace. 
CORNELIUS We're good to go. 
STRYKER So, Logan... The truth is, you're a real pain in the ass. But we've invested far too much time and treasure to terminate you. We're starting over. Cornelius checks the digital gauges on the machine. 
CORNELIUS If I've calibrated correctly, we'll leave intact the hard-wired functions, walking and talking, all that good stuff. 
VICTOR CREED You mean I don't get to potty train him? 
CORNELIUS But every memory you've ever had will evaporate. Just like it never happened. Logan never takes his eyes off Kayla, his personal Judas. 
LOGAN Good. 
STRYKER (to Cornelius) Let me know when he's clean. I have to look in on our other guest. Stryker exits the room, followed by Victor. 
LOGAN (to Kayla) That story you told me... about the guy who goes to get flowers for the Moon. I can't get it out of my head. Except I had it all backwards. I thought you were the moon and I was your Wolverine. But you're the Trickster, aren't you? 
(MORE) 
( ('ONTTNTTF.1)) 
CONTINUED: (3) LOGAN (cont'd) And I'm just a schmuck who got played. Kayla is silent for a moment. 
KAYLA My mother told me that story. She takes a deep breath and turns to go. KAYLA (cont'd) It doesn't matter. You won't remember any of this. 
INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - DAY 
Logan sits in his electric chair, staring straight ahead, preparing himself for the pain. 
INT. VIEWING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Cornelius stands behind the glass viewing window with his ASSISTANT. He puts his hand on a red switch. 
INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - CONTINUOUS 
Thousands of volts surge into Logan's skull, forcing his body to arch. After several seconds the power shuts off. Tendrils of white smoke rise from the copper halo. Logan opens his eyes and stares at Cornelius. 
LOGAN That all you got? 
INT. VIEWING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
CORNELIUS (to his assistant) This could take a while. Raise the amperage by forty percent. 
INT. STRYKER'S OFFICE - DAY 
Stryker signs a memo and hands it to his aide, Collins. Kayla stands by the window, picking at her fingers. 
KAYLA You're going to let Victor kill that woman. Stryker and Collins ignore her. KAYLA (cont'd) When you got me out of prison, you told me we were going to help people. Stryker continues to sign papers, never looking up. 
STRYKER We are. We're saving humanity. 
KAYLA From the mutants? The phone rings. Stryker answers it. 
STRYKER Yes? 
(LISTENING) Good. I'm coming down. (hanging up; to Collins) The Eleven is ready. He stands and heads for the door. Collins follows. In the doorway, Stryker stops and fixes his cold blue gaze on Kayla. STRYKER (cont'd) Don't worry, my sweet. You're one of the good ones. I'll protect you. He and Collins exit the room, leaving Kayla alone with her misery. 
INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - DAY 
Logan sits panting in the chair, gripping the ends of the arm rests with white fingers, waiting for the next surge of electricity. It comes and he arches again, all the muscles in his body contracting, the veins in his neck bulging. 
INT. VIEWING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 
Cornelius and his assistant watch Logan with no detectable sympathy. They turn when Kayla walks into the room. 
KAYLA Is he clean yet? Cornelius and the assistant face front again.. 
CORNELIUS He's stronger than I thought. We could be here all night.. Kayla watches Logan in his agony. A glimmer of remorse passes over her face. 
KAYLA He was good to me. Cornelius, fiddling with the amperage dial, curls his lips in a sardonic smile. 
VICTOR CREED Amen to that. Kayla stands in between them, holding up her hands. 
KAYLA Please! We shouldn't be fighting each other. Stryker's using us. 
(CONTTNTIF.T) I 
CONTINUED: 
VICTOR CREED A little late for the Mutant Power crap. We hunt freaks for the man. That's why we're free. 
KAYLA What's he gonna do with us when the other mutants are dead? Put us in a zoo? Creed hesitates, considering the logic of her words. A fanged smile splits his face. 
VICTOR CREED Don't try your head games on me. I've gutted better telepaths than you. Creed rears back to hammer Kayla, a blow that would separate her head from her body. Logan catches Creed's fist inches from Kayla's face. 
LOGAN Time you quit picking on girls. 
VICTOR CREED Oh, I'm happy picking on men. Creed swings at Logan's head, Logan ducks, and the fight begins. This is melee so efficient that no motion is wasted. Every lunge would kill any other adversary. Every parried blow would shatter a normal man's arm. Kayla, bleeding from the nose, staggers to her feet. She helps up Hines and pushes her toward the door. 
KAYLA Get out of here. Hines doesn't have to be told twice. She flees. Creed sees his plaything running out the door. He snarls in frustration. 
VICTOR CREED You're ruining my party. He grabs hold of Logan and hurls him headfirst through the cell wall-- a concrete support wall. 
INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 
Logan crashes to the floor, covered in rubble. Creed steps out of the cell, licking his fangs. Creed tries to stomp Logan's face, but the smaller man rolls out of the way and gets back on his feet. The mutants battle down the corridor, claws whistling through the air. A team of SENTRIES charge around the corner, wearing tactical armor and carrying XM8 assault rifles. They level their rifles at the battling mutants. 
SENTRY #1 Get down! Get down! 
SENTRY #2 Down on your knees! Logan and Creed, trying to punch holes in each other, ignore the sentries. Kayla, staring down the barrels of the big guns,. holds up her hands. She concentrates, staring into the sentries' eyes. 
KAYLA We're here as guests of Colonel Stryker. The sentries' hostility shifts into apologetic obeisance. 
SENTRY #1 Very sorry about that. 
KAYLA You boys are no longer needed here. Go back to barracks. 
SENTRIES You got it. See ya later. Bye! The sentries wave cheerfully and depart. Creed and Logan are equally skilled, but Creed's superior size and strength begin to wear the smaller man down. Creed slams him into the wall, opening fissures. Holding both of Wolverine's wrists up with one hand, Creed grabs Wolverine's face with his free hand. (CONTTNI IRh ) 
CONTINUED: His black claws slide toward Wolverine's eyes. 
VICTOR CREED How you gonna fight without eyes, little man? Logan brings his knee up hard, smashing his adamantium- enhanced kneecap into Creed's groin. The big man groans. Logan spins Creed around, jamming him against the wall. He tries to skewer Creed with the claws of his right hand but Creed moves his head at the last moment. Logan's claws are buried to the hilt-in the wall. He strikes at Creed with his left hand, but Creed dodges again. All six of Logan's claws are deep in the solid rock wall. He brings his hands. together, the adamantium blades slicing through granite as if it were cheesecake. Creed ducks under the claws an instant before they shred him. He grabs Logan in a-bear hug. A large section of the wall behind them falls out, and, unable to halt their momentum, Logan and Creed tumble through the hole, disappearing from sight. Kayla runs over and stands at the jagged precipice, looking out onto the gargantuan Weapon XI cavern. 
INT. WEAPON XI FACILITY - CONTINUOUS 
Logan and Creed fall seventy feet, clawing at each other in mid-air. Logan hits the floor hard, the impact blasting a small crater in the concrete. Creed manages a rolling fall, cat-quick and dexterous. 
