(GRUMBLING) Look at them. Hunters think they're so cool. They don't think gathering is dangerous? There are thorns-- bees-- those big stingy ants. I could hunt-- I just don't want to. And what's with the blood on their faces? They think that's sanitary? 
Official White                                                             7. 
ZED (miserable with pain) Do me a favor. Just kill me. 
OH Why did you eat that fruit? It's forbidden. Everybody knows that. 
ZED I couldn't help myself! Maya was just staring at me with those pouty eyes-- and those perky breasts-- opposable thumbs. And how about the name? "The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil"? You don't think that sounds tempting? They should've just called it "The Tree with the Fruit that Tastes Like Shit." Then for sure nobody would eat it. Zed notices a VILLAGER squatting in the bushes right behind his dwelling. ZED                                                             (cont'd) (shouts testily) Hey! Squanto! Give me a break, would ya'! You got the whole forest! (to Oh) Why does everyone have to crap right behind my hut? 
OH I think, and I could be wrong, that all the poop makes the ground more fertile, which in turn, gives the leaves in the area a softer feel. It's a vicious circle. Oh notices a very pretty young woman, EEMA, standing near the communal fire with TWO HUNTERS. His heart leaps. OH                                                              (cont'd) (calls out eagerly) Hi, Eema! Eema turns, sees it's him and gives him a perfunctory wave, then turns back to the hunters and says something about Oh that makes them laugh. 
Official White                                                            8. OH                                                             (cont'd) She doesn't even know I exist. 
(LOVE-STRUCK) I want to lay with her so badly. 
ZED I don't see it. I mean she's cute, but I don't think I'd lay with her. 
OH Of course not! She's your sister! It'd be like sleeping with your mother. 
ZED which was a big mistake. I see that now. You think it won't be awkward the next morning but-- trust me, you just want to rip your eyeballs out. (shakes off the memory) Listen, if you want to impress Eema, tonight at the feast, do the fertility dance with her, then drag her back to your hut. 
OH My hut's a mess. And what if she struggles? 
ZED So you give her a little tap on the head. Women respond to that-- 
OH 
(SIGHS) No. She only likes hunters-- not gatherers. They look over at Eema, who is now slowly stroking the shaft of a hunter's spear. 
ZED I wouldn't read too much into that. She kisses, then tongues the spear tip. ZED                                                            (cont'd) Okay, that might mean something. The hunter Marlak walks by and stops. He's clearly half a rung lower on the human evolutionary scale. 
Official White                                                             9. 
MARLAK You didn't hunt today. 
ZED Yes, Marlak. Very observant. I was indisposed. Got that intestinal thing that's been going around. Marlak grunts and examines the primitive line drawings on the walls of Zed's hut. 
MARLAK (points at a drawing) What's that supposed to be? 
ZED It's a bear. 
MARLAK That's not a bear. That's just some lines on a skin. 
ZED 
(SIGHS) It's not a real bear. It's a "representation" of a bear. You know, a "picture." 
MARLAK That's stupid. 
ZED Yeah. Like you'd know. 
MARLAK And what's that? He picks up a skin with another of Zed's drawings on it, this one of a big-breasted naked girl. Zed quickly grabs it and holds it upside down. 
ZED That-- would be an antelope-- or a deer-- a deerpalope. 
MARLAK (trying to look at it upside down) It looks like Maya. 
Official White                                                                  10. 
ZED (hides it away) How could it be Maya? It's just some lines on a skin. 
MARLAK Stay away from my woman. 
ZED Your woman? I'm not sure dragging her into the bushes kicking and screaming means you have an actual "thing" going. Marlak cuffs him hard on the side of the head. 
MARLAK (walking off) Stay away. 
ZED (calls after him) Hey! Nice supra-orbital ridge, fartface! 
MARLAK Enmebaragesi doesn't lie. Villagers gather around them, Maya and Eema among them. Marlak puts his spear point to Zed's throat. MARLAK (cont'd) The truth! 
Official White                                                       14. 
MAYA Zed, just admit it. You're just making it harder on yourself. 
ZED (instantly annoyed) No, you just made it harder on myself! (to Marlak) Okay, fine, you got me. (gingerly moves the spear 
POINT) Maya and I lay together on occasion. We're consenting adults and we have an adventurous sexual relationship. Maya looks shocked, and tries to signal Zed to shut up. 
MARLAK 
(STUNNED) You laid with my woman? 
ZED Isn't that what we're talking about? Maya rolls her eyes. 
ENMEBARAGESI No, I saw you eat the Forbidden Fruit. 
ZED Oh, that! Yeah! I did eat the fruit. I was just kidding about humping Maya. Marlak knocks Zed to the ground. The DRUMMING stops. Oh comes running over and gets between Marlak and Zed. 
OH 
(FORCEFUL) Hey! What's going on? Marlak growls at him. OH                                                        (cont'd) (quickly looks up at the 
SKY) Oooh, shooting star. 
Official White                                                                                15. Zed gets to his feet. 
ZED Look, Marlak, this is crazy. You're two of me. I'm not gonna fight you over a girl, okay? Zed starts to walk away but quickly pivots and throws a WILD HAYMAKER at Marlak who easily ducks it, and it hits an unsuspecting Enmebaragesi squarely in the nose. Zed                                                            (cont'd) (to Enmebaragesi) And let that be a lesson to your big friend- Marlak grabs Zed, lands two solid punches to Zed's mid- section, and then clocks him with a vicious right that sends him sprawling to the ground. 
MARLAK (standing over Zed) Your father was a great hunter, but you're like-- a girl. The hunters laugh. 
ENMEBARAGESI Good one, Marlak. 
ANOTHER HUNTER Zing. 
MARLAK Now I kill you. He's about to spear Zed when suddenly the Shaman screams and jumps between them. The villagers step back as the Shaman howls an incantation and shakes his magic rattle at Zed. 
SHAMAN (leaning close to Zed) We need to talk. 
CUT TO: 
7                                                              THE CAMPFIRE - MINUTES LATER   7 Zed and the Shaman sit side by side on a log, talking privately. 
Official White                                                         16. The Shaman is covered in skins, feathers, bones, beads, animal teeth, antlers and horns, his hair a mass of long, muddy dreadlocks, his face painted, his cheeks, nose, and ears pierced by shards of bone. But if not for his outlandish getup, zed could be talking to his pastor. 
SHAMAN You really ate the fruit? 
ZED One bite! What's the big deal? 
SHAMAN (halfheartedly shakes a chicken-foot rattle at 
HIM) You don't eat the fruit! That's been the number one rule from the beginning of time. Since the Great Turtle climbed from the sea with the Earth on his back, drank the ocean, pooped out the mountains and the first man fell from the stars. 
ZED I've always had trouble with the Great Turtle Theory-- too many unexplained gaps. 
SHAMAN Whatever. You're screwed now. 
ZED Really? How screwed? Like I knew it was a rule but I'm a little fuzzy on the exact details. 
SHAMAN You're cursed, man, and if you stay here then we'll all be cursed. You have to leave. 
ZED Where am I supposed to go? 
SHAMAN Up to you. From now on you're completely on your own. 
ZED 
(DEFIANT) Oh, really? 
OH 
(SULLEN) Yeah, it's great. 
ZED Come on, those hunters are idiots. In an hour they'll forget the whole thing. 
OH I don't think they'll forget the fire. 
ZED You know what we should do? You and me should kill the biggest boar ever-- just huge!-- and take it back to the village. Just to show them. And we won't let anyone else eat it. They'll have to watch us eat it. 
OH If it's that huge how would we carry it back? 
ZED 
(CONSIDERING) Fine, we'll just start with something small. A squirrel or something. 
Official White                                                            22. 
OH Yeah, we'll make everyone watch us eat a squirrel. Will you get real? There's no going back! There's, nothing to go back to! It's just ashes. 
ZED 
(SCOFFS) Yeah, like it's so hard to build a new hut. It's just a pile of sticks and dung-- 
OH 
(SCOWLS) You're a pile of sticks and dung. Suddenly, Zed stops and stands perfectly still. 
ZED (through clenched teeth) Oh! 
OH What are you doing? Zed makes a minimal gesture with his head. Oh looks up. A COUGAR crouches on a tree limb above them, poised to leap. Oh freezes. They talk like ventriloquists. 
ZED Don't move a muscle. 
OH Will that work? 
ZED (without moving his lips) I don't know. There's two different opinions on this one. Some say run, some say don't. 
OH What are you going to do? 
ZED I'm going to-- RUN! He sprints off and the cougar pounces right on oh. 
CUT TO: 
Official White                                                                23. 
10                                                              EXT. A FIRE   - DAYBREAK   10 
Zed is holding a stick over the fire, cooking what looks like a squirrel or a muskrat. Oh comes out of the forest carrying a huge armload of sticks and branches. One of Oh's sticks falls, and as he carefully reaches down to grab it, the rest spill out on the ground. Oh sighs. His body is covered with long claw marks. 
ZED You really should put some maggots on those scratches. They look pretty deep. 
OH 
(BITTER) I just want to know why you told me not to move, and you ran. 
ZED Because I honestly thought he'd go for me. I thought I was doing you a favor. Apparently not appreciated. 
OH Yeah, big favor. 
ZED You didn't have to come with me, you know. I didn't ask you to come. 
OH Yes, you did! You looked right at me-- twice. 
ZED Yes, that's a technique of public speaking, but I didn't ask you specifically. You chose to come. You gotta take some responsibility for that. And there's no point coming if you're just gonna keep whining about every little-- cougar that attacks you. (pulls the cooked rodent from the fire) You want some or not? 
Official White                                                                          24. 
OH 
ZED (getting painfully to his 
FEET) Yeah, well-- we're hunters. 
OH (covering for himself) He's a hunter. I'm more of a "maker." I made this loincloth, I do arrows-- I made a shelf unit for my hut-- 
ZED What do you guys do? 
SECOND YOUNG FARMER What does it look like? We're farmers. 
FIRST YOUNG FARMER He's a farmer; I'm a herdsman. 
SECOND YOUNG FARMER You're a suck, is what you are. 
FIRST YOUNG FARMER (ignores him) My brother, Cain. I am called Abel. 
CAIN You are called suck. 
ABEL My brother is angry because God looked on my sacrifice with favor. 
Official White                                  28. 
CAIN (mimics him) "God looked on my sacrifice with 
FAVOR--" (to Oh) Okay, is he a total suck or what? 
OH Well, it's hard to say-- we just 
MET-- 
ABEL Why are you dragging them into this? What do they know? They're morons. 
ZED 
(OFFENDED) Hey! Easy! 
CAIN (to Abel) You think you're so superior to everyone else. 
ABEL Superior-er than you. 
CAIN Really? Let's see how good you are at getting your ass kicked. (shoves him) 
ABEL Yeah? Bring it! (shoves him back) 
ZED Okay, boys, that's enough. We just want to-- 
CAIN (won't let it go) No! This smug asshole insulted you and I want him to take it back. 
ZED We're not really that insulted-- 
CAIN (pushes Abel hard) Take it back! 
Official White                                                           29. 
ABEL (pushes back) Make me! Zed steps between them, trying to make peace. 
ZED Boys, boys! You're brothers! Let's just relax and-- Cain uses the distraction to sneak-punch Abel and the fight is on. They start throwing wild punches, then clinch and wrestle each other to the ground. 
OH Shouldn't we do something? 
ZED Just let them settle it. Cain picks up a good-size rock and strikes Abel on the head with all his might. Abel falls heavily to the ground and lies there, not moving. Cain stands over him, breathing hard. ZED                                                           (cont'd) 
(SHOCKED) I guess that settles it. 
CAIN (turns on him sharply, still holding the bloody 
ROCK) What?! 
ZED Nothing! Cain stares at Abel, still inert on the ground. 
THE CART with them riding on it, plodding slowly into a FARMING HAMLET,°a cluster of small, roughly plastered mud houses with thatched roofs. ADAM, dour, hard-working and long-suffering, but still strong and upright, trudges home with a metal scythe over his shoulder. He could be Max Von Sydow. 
ADAM (hailing Cain) Cain, my son! 
CAIN Hail, Father. Cain stops the cart and dismounts with Zed and Oh. CAIN                                                             (cont'd) Can these guys stay for supper? (off Adam's questioning 
LOOK) I bring strangers who would sojourn with us this night. Cain turns to Zed and Oh and furtively mimes an elaborate lip- sewing gesture, ancient precursor to the modern lip-zipper. 
ADAM Greetings, strangers. I am called Adam and you are welcome to share the fruits of our toil. 
ZED Thanks, but I'm kind of staying away from fruit for the time being. Zed gives Cain a subtle, acquiescent nod as Adam ushers them into his crude dwelling. 
Official White 
17                                                             INT. ADAM'S DWELLING - NIGHTFALL 
The rude dwelling has a stark, somber, almost Amish feeling to it. Zed and Oh sit at the table sharing a simple meal       youngest with Adam, Cain and his Adam's wife EVE and h them, Lilith's tunic gaping open to reveal her breasts every time she leans over to put something on the table. Zed and Oh can't take their eyes off her. 
ADAM (to Cain) Where is thy brother, Abel? 
CAIN (badly overplaying) Abel? Haven't seen him. I thought he was with you. (to Zed and Oh) You guys see him? They shake their heads and cough nervously. 
ZED AND OH (equally unconvincing) Nape. Not that I remember. Never seen anybody-- anywhere-- anytime -- ever. 
ADAM (to Cain) Your sister Lilith said she saw him in the field with you. 
CAIN I think that was yesterday. 
ADAM No, this day. She said you both made offerings. 
CAIN That might've been Boaz--- 
ADAM No, you and Abel. She said it looked like you were arguing. 
CAIN Hey, we're brothers, we argue sometimes- it's not that big a deal. 
Official White                                                           34. 
ADAM And his flock was untended in the 
PASTURE-- 
CAIN 
(EXPLODES) Okay! What am I-- his keeper? Get off my back, will you? He smashes his plate against the wall and storms out. An awkward silence as Zed and Oh exchange guilty looks. 
ADAM I fear the worst for Abel. I am sorely vexed. 
ZED Yeah, that's got to be pretty vexing. A Bergmanesque gloom fills the hovel as Adam muses sullenly on his sorry circumstances. 
ADAM For my sin the ground is cursed. Thorns and thistles does it sprout for us, and we are doomed to toil all the days of our lives. For as the Lord has commanded, by the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat until you return to the ground from which you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust shall you return. 
ZED Wow. That's kind of a downer isn't it? 
ADAM It's the way of the world. 
ZED Boy, I hope not. 
ADAM (rises abruptly) You are welcome to stay the night and lay with my daughter Lilith. Zed looks at the luscious Lilith, then back at Adam. 
Official White                                                                                   35. 
ZED I'm waiting for the punchline. 
ADAM She is without a husband, and as the Lord has said, thou shalt be fruitful and multiply. Lilith nods demurely and exits through a curtain. Zed starts to follow her out. 
OH Hey! What about me? 
ADAM You may share the bed of my son Seth. 
Official White                                                            38. 
CAIN (louder, mock sincerity) I said good luck. I'm really worried about him. He turns aside and makes a goofy sarcastic face for Oh's benefit. 
ADAM You're not coming? 
CAIN Yeah, I am. I just have to finish toiling over here, then I'm right behind you. Adam and the others hurry off, and as soon as they're gone, Cain rushes over and starts harnessing the oxen to the cart. CAIN                                                           (cont'd) (to Zed and Oh) Now listen, I'm getting out of here, and you better come with me. I have a feeling they're going to try and blame this whole "Abel- killing-thing" on you. 
ZED Why would they blame us? 
CAIN Because when they find him and his head is all bashed in, they're going to start pointing fingers, and you guys are drifters, so they'll put two and two together and that makes-- He stares expectantly at Zed and Oh. CAIN                                                           (cont'd) Four! It makes four! Now stop asking so many questions and hop on. We gotta get out of here! He urgently whips the oxen and they climb aboard as the cart lumbers forward. 
CUT TO: 
Official White                                39. 
21                                                              EXT. WHEAT FIELD - MINUTES LATER 
Adam and the other farmers discover Abel's body. 
ADAM 
(BITTERLY) 
CAIN-- (to the others) After him! The farmers shout and race back to the hamlet. 
CUT TO: 
22                                                              EXT. THE HAMLET - MINUTES LATER 
Adam and the other farmers jump onto two more oxcarts and set out after Cain, Zed and Oh. 
CUT TO: 
23                                                              EXT. CART PATH - LATER             23 
Cain's cart lumbers along. He looks back over his shoulder. 
CAIN (urgently, to Zed and Oh) They're gaining on us! Zed and Oh look back. 
THEIR POV The other oxcarts are a hundred yards back, "chasing" them at maybe two miles per hour. Cain whips his oxen and they step up the pace to 3 MPH. 
CAIN 
(GLEEFUL) Hah! They'll never catch us now! An aerial view shows Cain's cart slowly pulling away from his pursuers. Suddenly a bolt of lightning splits the bright blue sky and strikes Cain right on the forehead, knocking him back into the cart. He sits up stunned, with a still-smoking, jagged burn mark on his forehead. 
Official White                                                                                   40. CAIN                                                            (cont'd) (dazed but exhilarated) Wow! What are the odds of that?! (feeling the burn mark) Am I lucky or what? Zed and Oh exchange doubtful looks and glance nervously at the sky. 
CUT TO: 
24                                                              EXT. THE SEASHORE - DAY          24 
The ox cart approaches a small trading settlement on the seacoast, a kind of makeshift tent city around a central marketplace. Several dhows are tied up at the shore, camels and pack animals are tethered on the fringes, while TRADERS and MERCHANTS inspect newly arrived goods and haggle over prices. 
25                                                              EXT. MARKETPLACE - DAY - LATER   25 
Zed, Oh and Cain wander through the crowded market. PEOPLE OF EVERY RACE dressed in all manner of exotic garb buy, sell, and barter goods from distant lands. Zed and oh gawk like a couple of yokels. 
ZED Look at all these people! And this stuff! Oh approaches a bakery stand and stares hungrily at the bread. 
OH (to the Merchant) Can I have one of those? He reaches for a loaf but the MERCHANT strikes his hand with a cane. OH                                                              (cont'd) Ow! 
MERCHANT Two silver pieces. 
CAIN 
(HUNGRY) We're gonna need some money. 
Official White                                                             41. 
MAYA How do you know God's a "He?" Zed rolls his eyes. 
ZED Don't you get what I'm saying? What if we've been chosen? 
MAYA You think we've been chosen by God? 
ZED Well, no offense, but it's possible that I was chosen and you all just happened to be there. 
OH Why would God choose you? Why wouldn't he choose Marlak? He's stronger. 
Official White                                                          45. 
ZED A chosen doesn't need to be strong. I'm big this way. (points to his temples) 
OH You do have a fat face. 
ZED Not my face, my brain. It's enormous. I'm the smartest guy in the village. 
OH 
(SCOFFS) You're not even-- I'm smarter than you! 
ZED What?! (to ANOTHER VILLAGER) Which one of us is smarter? 
VILLAGER You're both idiots! 
ZED Oh yeah, then why are we free and you're chained up? 
VILLAGER Because of you? 
CAIN (calls them over) Hey! Come here. I think we worked something out. 
ZED (confidently, to Maya) Sit tight. I'm going to get you out of here. Do you trust me? 
MAYA 
(HEDGING) I want to trust you. 
ZED Fair enough. She gives him an encouraging hug, then Zed and Oh cross to Cain and the slave trader. 
Official White                                                                                      46. ZED                                                            (cont'd) (to Cain) Good work. What's the deal? The slave owner smiles. 
CUT TO: 
26                                                             EXT. SLAVE MARKET - A LITTLE LATER   26 
Zed and Oh are dragged onto the platform in shackles and leg irons. They see Cain riding off on a donkey. He holds up a bag of coins and waves goodbye. 
ZED I never trusted that guy. 
OH 
(SARCASTIC                                                     ) Why? Just 'cause he murdered his brother and got hit by lightning? They are pushed to the front of the platform. 
SLAVE TRADER (to the crowd) All right! Next up is a twofer-- I'm selling them as a pair-- I know they don't look like much-- but I'm starting the bidding at sixty gold minas. Do I hear sixty? 
(NOTHING) Remember, it's two for one here. Do I hear fifty? Anyone? That's only twenty-five apiece, folks. 
(NOTHING) Zed looks out at the crowd, starting to get offended. SLAVE TRADER (cont'd) You're breaking my heart here. How about forty? Do I hear forty? 
(NOTHING) 
ZED (to Oh) It's not like I want to be a slave or anything, but this is embarrassing! 
Official white                                                                                 47. 
SLAVE TRADER Thirty-five? Thirty? 
ZED 
SARGON No. Let the desert have them. They won't get far. 
CUT TO: 
29                                                              EXT. THE DESERT   - SUNSET   29 
The soldiers are camped for the night. The slaves are back in their cage. Sargon the commander stops to instruct the 
GUARD. 
Official White                                                                 51. 
SARGON Tend to the slaves. We leave for Sodom before daybreak. 
GUARD Yes, sir. 
30                                                           ZED AND OH They lie hidden behind a sandy ridge watching from a short distance. 
ZED 
(WHISPERS) I wonder who they are. Their hats are really great, aren't they? 
OH Their hats? I'm sorry, but when that one guy cut the other guy's head off, my first thought wasn't, "Gee, what a great hat." 
ZED It wasn't my very first thought, but I'd be lying if I said it wasn't up there. 
(WATCHFUL) Now we just need to figure out a way to rescue Maya and Eema. 
OH How are we going to rescue anybody? They're killers! 
ZED 
(WILY) Patience, my friend. Even killers have to sleep sometime. He keeps a sharp, wakeful eye on the enemy camp. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
31                                                           THE MORNING SUN   31 Zed and Oh fast asleep on the ridge. They slowly wake up. 
Official White                                                              52. 
ZED 
(SCRATCHING) Well, that was refreshing. How'd you sleep? 
OH 
(YAWNS) Not that well. I think I was over- tired. Then Zed suddenly remembers Maya. He looks and sees that the soldiers and slaves are long gone. 
ZED Shit! He leaps to his feet, looks around desperately, and sees nothing but a vast wasteland in every direction. 
OH Now where do we go? Zed sniffs the air, puts his ear to the ground, and tastes the sand. 
ZED I have no idea. 
CUT TO: 
32                                                             ZED AND OH   32 trudging across the desert in the blistering heat, growing weaker, stumbling and falling. 
OH (too weak to move) Why do I listen to you? Now we're going to starve to death or die of thirst. 
ZED Will you stop being so negative? I got your back, man. Who saved you from those lions when you were a baby? They were going to pounce, had you surrounded. Took the mama lion-- BAM!-- kneed her right in the face. Papa lion comes flying at me-- BAM!-- dropped an elbow, knocked his ass out. 
(MORE) 
Official White                           53. ZED                                                             (cont'd) Took his legs-- THWOOM!-- tossed him in the river. And the rest just ran off. 
OH You know, I've asked people about that and no one else seems to remember it. 
ZED Yeah, because nobody else was there. You're lucky I was walking by. 
The spacious tent is lit by torches, and a feast is in progress. TWENTY OR THIRTY BEARDED MEN in skullcaps and long robes lounge on cushions or sit cross-legged in a circle on the carpeted floor. An EGYPTIAN BELLY DANCER shakes her hips for the pleasure of Abraham who occupies the place of honor. Zed and oh, now also wearing robes and skullcaps, are sitting right beside him eating and drinking everything in sight. Isaac sits beside them. ABRAHAM claps his hands for attention. Zed and Oh look up as the music stops. 
ABRAHAM (to the assembly) My brothers, let us give thanks unto God for staying my hand on the mountain this day. 
ISAAC (humoring him) Best dad in all the land, everyone! 
THE KINSMEN (a ritual response, in 
UNISON) Praise be to God, hallowed be His name. 
ABRAHAM And for the bounty which He hath bestowed unto us. 
Official white                                                         57. 
THE KINSMEN (in unison) He hath increased our wealth and blessed us with His loving kindness. Zed and Oh mutter along, trying to fit in. 
ZED AND OH (a beat late) --mumble mumble mumble loving kindness. Abraham looks at them. 
ABRAHAM Friends, whence comest thou? Zed and Oh look at each other blankly. 
ISAAC 
(HELPFULLY) He wants to know where you're from. 
ABRAHAM 
(SUSPICIOUS) Thou comest not from the cities of the plain? From Sodom or Gomorrah? Zed perks up at the mention of Sodom, recalling the destination of the soldiers who took Maya and the others. 
ZED Sodom and Gomorrah? Never been there. But I've heard of them. 
OH Are they nice? 
ABRAHAM The Lord has cursed them for their abomination. 
ZED (nods gravely) i didn't know that. What kind of abomination are we talking about? 
ABRAHAM They bow down before false Gods and worship graven images. 
Official White                                                        58. 
ZED (clicks his tongue) Abominable. 
ABRAHAM The men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink. 
ZED (sounds good to him) Really. Tell me more. 
ABRAHAM Their women are whores; their shameless lust knows no bounds. They flaunt their flesh without shame and any man may have knowledge of them. 
OH (he's sold) And where exactly are those cities? 
ZED (off Abraham's stern look) We just want to know so we can avoid them. 
ABRAHAM 
(FIERCELY) Walk not the path of Sodom! For surely will the Lord send his holy fire to destroy the city and all who dwell within, to smite them and all their seed for their iniquity. 
ZED 
(CONCERNED) When do you think all this smiting is going to go down? We may have some friends there. 
ABRAHAM (getting up) Accompany me. Abraham sweeps out of the tent. Zed and Oh jump to their feet and follow. Isaac tags along. 
Official white                                                                              59. 
36                                                             EXT. THE TENT - CONTINUOUS   36 
Abraham walks to the edge of the desert. Torchlight from the camp flickers on his face as he gazes across the desolate moonlit landscape. 
ZED Abraham, I'm a little worried about the city being destroyed. 
Official White                                                                                     62. 
ZED No! I told you, that's not where we're going. 
ISAAC Fine. Then we'll just stand here. 
ZED Fine. They stand there for less than a beat. ZED                                                             (cont'd) Okay, you win. Take us to Sodom. Isaac takes a couple of steps to the top of a rise and points off in the distance. 
THEIR POV Shining in the moonlight, the magnificent city of Sodom set atop a broad hill surrounded by high walls. 
ZED I knew it was right around here. 
ISAAC Me and my friends sneak in on the weekends. We hang around, pick up on the babes, drink some wine, get wasted on killer hash-- 
ZED You shouldn't be smoking either. 
ISAAC Thanks, Grandpa, but I've been smoking for four harvests, so I think I'm okay. They start down toward the city. 
CUT TO: 
38                                                              EXT. CITY GATES - NIGHT            38 
Zed, Oh and Isaac gape at the high masonry walls as they approach the massive solid wooden gates. 
Official White                                                             63. 
OH Gee, they're not open. We should probably come back later. 
ISAAC You just have to knock. They always let me in. (to Oh) Go ahead. 
OH Me? Why do I have to knock? What if we're waking somebody up? Let's just get out of here. 
ZED Where? Back to the penis-cutter? Besides, Eema and Maya might be in there. You want to get them out before the city's destroyed, don't you? Isaac impatiently grabs a big rock and starts banging on the door. 
ISAAC 
(SHOUTING) Hey! Anybody there? Hello? Suddenly Zed and Oh are yanked off their feet from behind and slammed into the wall by helmeted sentries. Isaac quickly runs away. 
SENTRY (shouts at him) Halt! Isaac stops a safe distance away and turns back to taunt the guards. 
ISAAC You gonna make me? (dancing and dodging like a boxer) You and what army? 
ZED (shouts to Isaac) Get help! Tell your father! 
ISAAC (shouts back) Yeah! 
(MORE) 
Official White                           64. ISAAC                                                           (cont'd) Like I'm really gonna tell my father I came with you to Sodom. So long, suckers! He takes off running. 
ZED (to Oh) I kinda get why his dad wanted to kill him. The sentries drag them through a small door cut into a corner of the city gates. 
CUT TO: 
39                                                              INT. GATEHOUSE - CONTINUOUS   39 
The sentries shove them into a small guard post and throw them up against the wall. THREE OTHER GUARDS look up at the new arrivals. 
FIRST GUARD What's this now? 
SENTRY They were banging on the gate. Hebrews, from the look of them. 
ZED We're not really Hebrews-- The guard smacks him in the mouth. ZED                                                             (cont'd) Okay. Lesson learned. No talking. 
SENTRY Should we wake the Sergeant? 
FIRST GUARD You don't want to do that. He gets pretty mean when you wake him. 
OH Meaner than this? The sentry grabs Oh's nipple and twists. Oh SCREAMS loudly. The guards freeze at the sound of his scream and look nervously to a closed door at one end of the room. 
OH Well, I kind of have a girlfriend-- not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl I like, so I shouldn't-- 
CAIN Hey, what happens in Sodom, stays in Sodom. He takes a jug of wine from the stall of a WINE MERCHANT. The merchant just bows obsequiously and keeps his mouth shut. CAIN                                                            (cont'd) You know, if you guys are staying you should join the guards. The pay's not great, but there's tons of perks. I'm telling you, it's the only way to go. Cain grabs a piece of candy from a SMALL CHILD and stuffs it in his mouth. The child starts crying, Cain kicks her in the ass and she runs away. 
Official White                                                                      69. 
OH (to the child) Sorry. 
CAIN Come on, I'll introduce you to the captain. 
CUT TO: 
41                                                              EXT. BARRACKS       - NEXT MORNING   41 
A military drum roll and the blare of trumpets rouse the garrison. GUARDSMEN come double-timing out of the barracks and hurry to line up in formation. Last to emerge are Zed and Oh who step leisurely out the door now dressed as Royal Guards. Zed actually looks dashing, but Oh's breastplate is too big and his helmet keeps slipping down over his eyes. 
ZED This is great! How do I look? 
OH You look good, but I think my hat's too big. They notice an OFFICER staring at them. OH                                                              (cont'd) (to the officer) Do you happen to know where I could get a smaller hat? The officer pops him on the head with a truncheon. 
OFFICER 
(ROARS) Line up! Zed and Oh hustle into line, orders are shouted and the troop marches off. 
DISSOLVE TO: 
42                                                              EXT. CITY STREETS   - LATER          42 
Zed and Oh are on patrol with Cain in the heart of the city. 
Official White                                            70. 
ZED So is this it? We just walk around? 
CAIN Pretty much. We just look for troublemakers and kick the living shit out of 'em. 
ZED What kind of trouble? 
CAIN If we see a thief or a pickpocket, we just slap him around-- maybe cut off a finger or an ear, or the tip of his nose, lower lip-- anything you can just grab and slice in one fluid motion-- then we take our share of the loot and let him go. Mostly what we worry about are activist types, rabble rousers, getting people all riled up against the King or the Temple Priests. That's death for sure. 
ZED Pretty harsh, isn't it? 
CAIN Harsh times, brother. We're in the middle of a famine. People are starving. If we don't get some rain soon, it could get ugly. (looking forward to it) Then we'll get to start kicking ass big time. He stops to flog a BEGGAR with his hand out. CAIN                                           (cont'd) Beat it, you filthy beggar! 
OH You can't blame people for being hungry. 
CAIN Yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the people. 
Official White                                                             71. Suddenly, they hear a regal fanfare of approaching trumpets and turn to look. At the sound of the trumpets EVERYONE IN THE CROWDED SQUARE falls to the ground and prostrates himself. Cain pulls Oh to the ground but Zed is left standing there oblivious as the ROYAL ENTOURAGE approaches. Oh taps on Zed's leg trying to get his attention, but Zed just ignores it, too transfixed to notice that he's the only one standing. EIGHT STRONG MALE SLAVES enter the square carrying an ornately decorated litter shaded with a silk canopy. On it is the PRINCESS INANNA, a stunning young woman, richly dressed and bejeweled, with exotic eyes and luscious red lips. A HANDMAIDEN rides along fanning her with a big ostrich plume fan. Zed sees the Princess and is instantly taken with her beauty. Princess Inanna glances his way and can't help but notice he's the only person in the square still standing. She gives him a quizzical smile, then turns away imperiously. As the litter passes, her handmaiden continues to stare at Zed. He doesn't recognize her, but we do. It's Maya, now elaborately costumed and made-up. Zed gawks at the Princess, then suddenly a ROYAL GUARD knocks him to the ground and stands on his neck as the rest of the entourage passes. 
ZED (on the ground, excitedly to Oh) Did you see that girl? I think she liked me! She looked right at me. 
OH Gee, I wonder why? The royal guard takes his foot off Zed's neck and they all get back to their feet. 
ZED Who was she? 
CAIN The Princess Inanna. She's totally hot, but don't even think about it. 
Official White                                                                                       72. 
ZED Why not? 
CAIN Because she's royalty and you're scum? The entire crowd starts moving in the same direction as the royal entourage. 
OH Where's everybody going? 
CAIN To the temple. Let's go. (starts walking) You have to see this. 
ZED 
Official White                                                            76. 
ZED What's happening? 
GUY He's picking a virgin. 
CAIN 
(LASCIVIOUS) Oh yeah. Uh huh. Uh huh. 
AT THE ALTAR the High Priest is moving down the line of beautiful young maidens. He comes to one SLUTTY GIRL who seems so obviously not a virgin, he does a double take and kicks her out of the line. 
ZED AND OH watching curiously. 
ZED What do they want a virgin for? 
GUY To throw into the fire. 
ZED 
(SHOCKED) Why? 
GUY (like talking to an idiot) Offering to the Gods. There's a famine going on. If we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. No rain, no harvest. No harvest, no food. Get it? 
CAIN It's pretty self-explanatory. 
OH You throw the virgin in the fire so it'll rain? 
GUY Duh. 
ZED Seems like a waste of a perfectly good virgin to me. 
Official white                                                             77. 
OH 
(CONCERNED) These virgins-- it's always a girl, right? 
AT THE ALTAR A great cheer goes up as a girl is chosen. She swoons as the priestesses slip off her vestment and two priests escort her to the fiery mouth of the furnace. 
HIGH PRIEST For the love of the Gods and the glory of their Creation, the great dome of Heaven, the green growing Earth, we commit this maiden to your Holy Fire. Another great cheer from the crowd as they throw her into the fire. 
ZED 
(APPALLED) This is just crazy. Maya approaches them but Zed and Oh still don't recognize her. 
MAYA (eyes downcast) The Princess wishes to see you. 
CAIN (staring at her cleavage) Her wish is my command. 
MAYA Not you. Him. (points at Zed) 
ZED Me? Cool. (then, motioning to Oh) We're kind of a package deal. Can he come with? 
CAIN The three of us are inseparable. We're like brothers. Cain squeezes both their shoulders and gives Maya an artificial smile. 
Official White                                                              78. Maya ignores Cain and points to Zed and Oh. 
MAYA The two of you follow me. 
ZED (to Cain) I'll try to put in a good word for you. Cain fumes as Zed and Oh head off with Maya. 
CUT TO: 
47                                                            EXT. PALACE   - LATER 
A SQUAD OF SENTRIES stands guard at the massive iron palace gates. A CROWD OF BEGGARS is pressed against the gate pleading for food. Zed and Oh approach led by Maya. The guards brutally push the beggars aside and they enter. 
48                                                            INT. PALACE   - COURTYARD -- CONTINUOUS 
(CONSIDERS) Or a fire-ball. 
PRIME MINISTER (ignores him) Majesty, there's talk of revolution in the streets. Grain and oil are scarce, prices are high, starving peasants are pouring into the city looking for food-- 
KING Poverty has a bitter taste, but it's the flavor they were born to. It's the will of the Gods. The Queen and Princess Inanna are lounging on cushioned divans, listening. 
INANNA 
(BLASE) Can the Gods really be so cruel? 
QUEEN I don't think that's cruel. It's just practical. If everybody was rich, who'd wait on us? Maya approaches and whispers something to the Princess. 
INANNA Good. See that he's bathed and dressed, then bring him to me. Maya frowns and exits. INANNA (cont'd) (to the queen) This should be amusing. 
CUT TO: 
50                                                              INT. PALACE CORRIDOR - LATER   50 
Maya leads Zed down a grand hallway. Zed is now wearing a long flowing robe of silk brocade, fine sandals, and jewelry. His hair has been combed and pulled back into a loose ponytail. He stops to admire himself in a mirror. 
ZED What do you think, ponytail or no ponytail? You know what? 
(MORE) 
Official White              82. ZED                                                           (cont'd) I'll start with the ponytail, see where the night takes me. Maya rolls her eyes and leads Zed to the entrance of the Great Hall. Cain and another guard are posted at the door. ZED                                                           (cont'd) Hey, you made it! What's it like inside? 
CAIN 
(POINTED) I wouldn't know.- I'm just a guard because my "brother" didn't pull any strings with his friends in the royal court. 
ZED Look, first of all, we're not actually brothers--- 
CAIN Just like Abel. I oughta just bash your head in-- 
ZED Hey! You didn't let me finish. As soon as I get in there I'm going to talk to somebody and get you invited, okay? 
CAIN 
(UNCONVINCED) Yeah, sure. Have a nice orgy. Cain pulls open the big doors and Zed steps through the portal. Cain tries to steal peeks inside as the heavy doors slam shut. 
CUT TO: 
51                                                            ZED'S POV        51 A full-scale ORGY is going on in a magnificent hall. As Maya leads him into the room, Zed pulls his hair out of the ponytail. 
ZED Feels like a hair-down kinda scene, don't you think? 
Official White                                                          83. 
MAYA As you wish. 
(POINTEDLY) Be sure to try the fruit. Zed looks at her and finally recognizes her. 
ZED Maya?! What are you doing here? 
MAYA I had no choice. I'm a slave, remember? 
ZED I was going to rescue you! Really! In fact, we came here to find you. 
MAYA (not buying it) Wait here until you're sent for. 
ZED This wasn't my idea, you know. 
MAYA Of course not. You were just chosen again. Maybe after you and the Princess get together you can start thinking about someone beside yourself. She walks off before he can answer. Zed shakes his head, looks around the room, then STARTS walking past a row of "LIVING STATUES," semi-nude men and women on pedestals covered head to toe in gold body paint, frozen in heroic postures that show off their beautiful bodies. Zed looks closely at one beautiful nude "GODDESS", then furtively reaches out and fondles her breast. The goddess slaps his hand, then resumes her pose. 
GODDESS watch it, jerk! 
ZED Hey! You're a real girl! That is so cool. 
Official White                                                             84. He moves down the row of living sculptures, mugging at them, mock humping, and waving his hands in their faces trying to make them move, but they remain frozen. ZED                                                             (cont'd) Amazing! He comes to the LAST STATUE and does a double-take. This one is wearing only a skimpy cloth diaper and is posed like someone waiting for a bus. He is also painted gold, but unlike the others, he has a little potbelly and round shoulders, and can't seem to hold still for very long, shifting his weight uncomfortably and looking around in obvious embarrassment. ZED                                                             (cont'd) (recognizing him) Oh? Oh looks down from his pedestal. 
MAYA 
(SKEPTICAL) What's your plan? 
ZED (not a clue) It's a secret. 
MAYA (not buying it) Forget it. Maya sees A GUARD watching them and reverts to her slave attitude. MAYA (cont'd) (bowing to Zed) The Princess awaits you. 
Official White                                                                    88. 
ZED And I await her. (to Oh and Eema) You two await me. (then confidentially to Eema and Oh) Stay out of trouble. I'll be back. He exits with Maya. 
EEMA He has no idea what he's doing, does he? 
OH I don't know. So much has happened. Sometimes I think-- She walks away. OH                                                              (cont'd) (wistfully, to himself) I love you. 
52                                                              THE HIGH PRIEST   52 Lounging on a divan surrounded by YOUNG MEN. Oh walks by still painted gold. 
HIGH PRIEST (to Oh) You there! Golden boy! Rub me with oil. The High Priest dismisses the young men, then stands and lets his rich outer robe fall to the floor. His chest, back and shoulders are incredibly hairy. 
OH I'd rather not, if you don't mind. I'm not really a slave. I'm a guard. 
HIGH PRIEST Then maybe you'd rather I speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. Or perhaps I whip you myself? How would you like that? 
OH Are those my choices? 
Official White                                                           89. 
HIGH PRIEST I'd say so. The High Priest lies back down. Oh looks around, finds a pitcher filled with precious oil and dribbles some on the High Priest's hairy chest. 
OH How's that? 
HIGH PRIEST More. 
OH (splashes a few more drops on him) That enough? 
HIGH PRIEST (getting angry) No! More oil! Much more, you insolent dolt! Oh pours oil liberally over his chest, back, and shoulders. HIGH PRIEST                                                   (cont'd) That's good. Now rub it in. 
OH 
(APPALLED) With my hands? 
HIGH PRIEST Do it! Oh grimaces and starts gingerly massaging the oil into his hairy chest and shoulders. HIGH PRIEST                                                   (cont'd) (in ecstasy) Mmmmm, I love it. The sweet scent of precious oil. The oily-- oiliness. Eema walks by with a pitcher of wine and sees Oh massaging the High Priest. She gasps. 
OH 
(EMBARRASSED) Eema! This isn't what you think. 
Official White                                                                                                 90. 
EEMA 
(FLUSTERED) No, it's fine. I understand. This really explains a lot about you that I didn't get before. 
OH No, really! I'm just-- rubbing oil on this man. She exits. 
HIGH PRIEST Mnum imam. I have an idea. Why don't we go back to my place and see what's under all that paint? 
OH 
(DISGUSTED) Ughh. 
CUT TO: 
53                                                           INT. PRINCESS'S CHAMBER - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER   53 
Maya ushers Zed into the dimly lit room. 
MAYA Good luck. 
OH That's so-- unselfish of you. 
HIGH PRIEST Yes, it is. It's just so-- lonely. Sometimes i hunger for the touch of another human being. 
(COY) Here's a riddle: what has two thumbs and wants another oil rub? (pointing thumbs at 
HIMSELF) This-guy. Ohquickly changes the subject. 
OH So where does that hall lead to? 
HIGH PRIEST (his eyes light up) Come, I'll show you. He takes Oh's arm and leads him down the hail toward a set of incredibly impressive doors covered with cuneiform writing and arcane religious symbols. HIGH PRIEST                                                     (cont'd) Behind those doors is the Holy of Holies-- the earthly domain of the 
(MORE) 
Official White HIGH PRIEST                           (cont'd) Gods-- a place so ineffably sacred, so powerful, that to enter is instant death for any mortal. 
OH Wow. (a long beat) So who cleans it? 
HIGH PRIEST it needs no cleaning. 
OH No, of course not. (can't let go of it) Kind of makes you wonder though-- the guys who built it, did they just die the minute they finished, or did the Gods give them a second to get out? 
HIGH PRIEST (starting to get annoyed) I assume they finished it, then the Gods descended. 
OH Yeah, that's probably it. (another long beat) So you're saying we can't go in? 
HIGH PRIEST I just told you! To enter is instant death! Only I can go in and only once a year after very elaborate purification rituals and days of special prayers and offerings. 
OH 
(QUICKLY) Right, right, right. 
(BEAT) What if we just open the doors and stick our heads in? 
HIGH PRIEST Fine! Enough! I'm sorry I brought it up. Let's go. (pushes Oh along) Move. Move. He shoos him down the hall. 
Official White                                                       95. 
57                                                     INT. TEMPLE   - MOMENTS LATER 
Zed and Princess Inanna stealthily enter the temple. 
ZED (looking around nervously) What are we doing here? 
INANNA I want you to enter the Holy of Holies. 
ZED Yes! Finally. Now you're talking! Should I enter it right here or should we go back to your bedroom? Does the Holy of Holies like to be entered from behind or--? 
INANNA 
(POINTS) That's the Holy of Holies-- you have to go in there and talk to the Gods. 
ZED The Gods are in there? 
INANNA So they say, but the only one who ever goes in is the High Priest. They say it's instant death for anyone else to enter. 
ZED Then why am I going in? 
INANNA 
(IMPATIENT) Because you were chosen? If the Gods wanted you dead they would have killed you already. 
ZED 
RIGHT-- 
INANNA This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside. 
Official White                                                                        96. 
SARGON It is the judgement of our most merciful King that the prisoners are to be enslaved to toil at hard labor until they die of exhaustion or starvation. 
ZED (exuberant fist pump) Yes! 
CUT TO: 
63                                                              EXT. THE ZIGGURAT - DAY   63 
Oh is up to his knees in a mud pit, trampling straw into the thick mud. A Guard cracks a bullwhip which flicks painfully across his shoulders. 
Official white                                                                107. 
OH Okay, you think that actually makes anybody work harder? It just makes them resent you. Is that what you want? 
GUARD (whips him again) Faster! 
OH Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace. 
64                                                           THE BRICK YARD   64 Marlak and Enmebaragesi are stacking bricks when zed approaches. 
ZED (greets them) Hey! Boys! Long time no see. They glance up, but ignore him. ZED                                                          (cont'd) Don't tell me you're still mad about Maya. That's so over. I have a thing going with the princess now-- well, almost had a thing. I'm a slave now-- just like you. 
MARLAK No. You're not just like me. 
ZED Okay. We do have our differences-- like about a cup and half of brain tissue-- but that doesn't mean we can't work together. Another GUARD approaches and whacks Marlak with his stick. 
GUARD #2 Take those bricks to the top. The masons are waiting. 
Official white                                                           108. Marlak and Enmebaragesi glower at the guard as they pick up ropes and harness themselves to a cart loaded with bricks. GUARD #2                                                      (cont'd) (to Zed) You! Help them! He grabs another rope harness off the cart and throws it to Zed. 
ZED You know, I'd like to, but I did something to my neck-- (massages his neck) I must've slept on it funny-- those dungeon pillows are like rocks-- well, they are rocks-- so I should probably take it easy or I'll be no damn good for work tomorrow. 
GUARD #2 (strikes him across the back with his stick) I said move! 
ZED Okay! But I should tell you, this isn't really my area. I'm just on a break from the mud department-- The Guard draws his short sword and raises it over Zed. 
GUARD #2 One more word and you die-- 
ZED (putting on the harness) Okay, okay. I'm going. (to Marlak and 
ENMEBARAGESI) Okay, boys, on the count of three. One-- two-- three! Marlak and Enmebaragesi lunge against the ropes, but Zed makes no effort to pull. They glare at him. ZED                                                           (cont'd) Learned that from Maya. Good trick, huh? Okay, together this time. Go! 
Official White                                                                                     109. They pull together and the heavy cart starts to move. 
CUT TO: 
65                                                              EXT. TOP OF THE ZIGGURAT - LATER   65 
Zed, Marlak and Enmebaragesi haul the heavy cart of bricks to the very top of the tower. TWO BRICKLAYERS are working on the wall. Zed leans against the wall next to them tb rest. 
ZED How high you guys think we're going with this? 
BRICKLAYER ONE Up to Heaven, I guess. That's how tall they usually build 'em. 
ZED (looking up) That's ambitious. 
BRICKLAYER TWO We worked on the Tower of Babel. Now that was a ziggurat. 
BRICKLAYER ONE Incredible erection. Zed looks down at his crotch. 
ZED 
(MODESTLY) That's nothing. You should see it when I'm excited. 
BRICKLAYER ONE The tower. 
ZED Oh, right, the tower. Incredible erection. (snickers to himself) 
BRICKLAYER ONE See, the Egyptians are working on an entirely different concept. Four sides, slanting walls, pointy top. 
68                                                              THE GREAT STONE IDOL             68 The flames are starting to build inside the idol's mouth. 
69                                                              EXT. TEMPLE SQUARE - SAME TIME   69 
Oh and the slaves are confined behind a barrier, watched by a squad of guards, waiting for the ceremony to start. THE TEMPLE DOORS open slowly, and the High Priest appears holding a long jewelled staff. Oh turns to the EDOMITE SLAVE next to him. 
OH (casually name-dropping) See the High Priest? I know him. Dear friend of mine. 
THE TEMPLE Now the procession of SACRIFICIAL VIRGINS is led out by the HIGH PRIESTESS. Maya and Eema are among them, their hands tied. They look like they've been drugged. Oh spots Eema and Maya among the virgins. 
Official White                                                                        114. 
OH 
(PANICKED) That's Eema! And Maya! I know them! 
EDOMITE SLAVE 
(SARCASTIC) I guess you know everybody, don't you. Oh shoulders his way right up to the barrier where a BIG GUARD stops him with a spear to his neck. 
BIG GUARD That's far enough, slave. Oh stops right there, frustrated and frightened. 
THE TEMPLE Inanna is led out last, now also having been drugged. 
70                                                              TOP OF THE ZIGGURAT   70 Zed, Marlak and the sharp-eyed Enmebaragesi look down, trying to see what's going on. 
ENMEBARAGESI They're bringing out the women. 
ZED 
(AMAZED) How are you seeing that far? 
ENMEBARAGESI I see your sister, Eema-- 
TOP OF THE ZIGGURAT 
ZED 
(SQUINTING) It's Maya! 
CUT TO: 
71                                                              THE TEMPLE            71 The drums and trumpets kick up the tempo and the High Priest starts leading the virgins to the idol's fiery mouth. Oh pushes against the barrier, restrained by the guard. 
Official White                                                                        115. 
OH We have to do something! Somebody has to stop it. (turning to the other 
SLAVES) We can't let them do this! The slaves start to mutter. The guards draw their swords and heft their spears, now on high alert. 
CUT TO: 
72                                                              TOP OF THE ZIGGURAT   72 Zed looks around desperately, trying to figure out what to do. 
ZED (to Marlak) I have to get down there. 
GUARD #2 
(SNORTS) Over my dead body. 
MARLAK All right. Without a moment's hesitation, Marlak grabs him and tosses him off the top of the ziggurat. He screams all the way down. 
ZED Wow. Who saw that coming? Thanks, Marlak. 
MARLAK Now what? Zed looks around quickly, grabs the end of a long coiled rope attached to a big pulley, and hands Marlak the other end. 
ZED (looping the rope around his waist) Lower me down. Without waiting for a response, Zed bravely jumps off the top of the ziggurat holding the rope. 
Official White                                                                   116. Marlak looks at the rope in his hands, pulls it a little and sees that it's not attached to the rope Zed was holding. 
